Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17757 PAN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
FOR A
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PILOT PROJECT
June 26, 1998
Human Development Sector Management Uniit
Central America Country Management U niit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 1998)
Currency Unit = Panamanian Balboa (B!)
US$1.00 = B/I
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CPR                  National Commission for Health Care Reform
CSS                  Social Security Institute
Caja del Seguro Social
FMS                  Financial Monitoring System
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
GOP                  Government of Panama
IBRD                 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
IDB                  Inter-American Development Bank
ICGES                Instituto Conmemorativo Gorgas de Estudios de Salud
LAC                  Latin America/Caribbean
LHC                  Local Health Committees
Comites Locales de Salud
LSMS                 Living Standards Measurement Study
MIPPE                Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy
Ministerio de Planificaci6n y Politica Econ6mica
MIS                  Management Information System
MOH                  Ministry of Health
Ministerio de Salud (MINSA)
NCB                  National Competitive Bidding
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organizations
OM                   Operational Manual
PAHO/WHO             Pan-American Health Organization/World Health Organization
PCU                  Project Coordinating Unit
QCBS                 Quality and Cost Based System
SMHR                 San Miguelito Health Region
UTR                  Reform Technical Unit
Unidad Thcnica de la Reforma
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Acting Sector Manager/Director: Xavier Co]l
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Hernan Montenegro



Panama
Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective ..................................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ................................2
B. Strategic Context ..................................................................2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project .....................................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .............................................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ............................6
C. Project Description Summary ..................................................................7
1. Project components ..................................................................7
2.  Key  policy  and  institutional reforms  supported  by  the  project .............                                                  .....................8
3.  Benefits  and  target population  ........................                                        .........................................8
4.  Institutional and  implementation  arrangements  .................................................. .......8
D. Project Rationale ..................................................................9
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..........................................9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ... 10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in project design ....................................................... Il1
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ............................................... 11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ............................................................  11
E. Summary Project Analysis .................................................................                                                                           12
1. Economic .................................................................                                                                            12
2. Financial .................................................................. 12
3. Technical .................................................................                                                                            12
4. Institutional .................................................................                                                                       12
5. Social .................................................................                                                                              13
6. Environmental assessment .................................................................                                                            13
7. Participatory approach .................................................................                                                              13
F. Sustainability and Risks .................................................................                                                                            14
1. Sustainability .................................................................                                                                     14
2. Critical risks .........                                                                                                                               14
3. Possible controversial aspects ......................                                                                                                 15



G. Main Loan Conditions ........................ 15
1. Effectiveness conditions ........................                    15
2. Other ........................                                       15
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                       16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                      16
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary .17
Attachment to Annex 1: Trigger Indicators for Pilot Extension .21
Annex 2.   Detailed Project Description .22
Attachment to Annex 2: Current Status of Project Activities .27
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs .28
Annex 4.     Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary, or .n/a
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary .n/a
Annex 5.     Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or .n/a
Financial Summary .33
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .34
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .34
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .36
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds .38
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule .40
Annex 8.   Documents in the Project File .41
Annex 9.   Statement of Loans and Credits .43
Annex 10. Panama at a Glance .44
Annex 11.  Health Policy Letter .46
Annex 12.    Corporate Agreement between the MOH and the CSS .62
Map



Panama
Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Central America Country Management Unit
Date: April 30, 1998                                    Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Heman Montenegro
Country Manager/Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo         Acting Sector Manager/Director: Xavier Coll
Project ID: 39808        Sector: Pop. Health & Nutrition    Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan        Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data                 [X] Loan         [  Credit        [] Guarantee       [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 4.3  in the event the terms are single currency, and fixed, the grace period: 3 maturity: 9
Proposed terms:                           [    Multicurrency       [x ] Single currency, US dollars
Grace period (years): 5            [    Standard Variable    [   Fixed           [x ]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.25%
Service charge: 0%
Financing plan (US$m): 5
Source                                Local               Foreign            Total
GOP                                                            1.43                  -                1.43
Cofinanciers
IBRD                                                           1.50                2.80               4.30
IDA
Other (beneficiaries)                                          0.30                  -                0.30
Total        3.23                 2.80              6.03
Borrower: Republic of Panama
Responsible agency(ies): MOH
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):       1998        1999        2000        20      20       20     20
Annual     1.4         2.0         0.9
Cumulative     1.4         3.4         4.3
For Guarantees:                                    [    Partial credit     [  Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:                [     Yes               []   No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 3 years Expected effectiveness date: June 30, 1998  Expected closing date: June 30, 2001
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project would support the GOP's health sector strategy aimed at irnproving the health status of the
Panamanian population. To achieve this goal, the GOP has developedL a health sector reform program
that would increase overall efficiency and effectiveness of the health system, while at the same time,
achieving equity of access and utilization of health services across all population groups, particularly the
poor. The reform program would be launched on a pilot basis in the San Miguelito Health Region
(SMHR) (to be supported by the proposed project). Piloting the reform before extending it nationwide
would allow the GOP and the Bank to understand and manage the individual and institutional behavioral
change the reform process entails. Likewise, it would enable the experimentation of new techniques and
instruments, and the gaining of consensus among critical stakeholders before moving ahead. The
piloting of a new model for providing, organizing and financing health services in the SMHR is expected
to:
a) increase access and facilitate utilization of health services, particularly of the poor, through the: (i)
development and implementation of a user identification system/card; (ii) development and
implementation of new community participatory mechanisms; (iii) implementation of a cost-
compensation system between the MOH and the CSS; and (iv) development of a cost-recovery
scheme that adjusts by family income.
b) improve the efficiency of health expenditures through the: (i) development of a corporate agreement
between the MOH and CSS integrating' both institutions in key strategic areas2; (ii) development and
implementation of a health services purchasing function; (iii) implementation of a new management
option for the new San Miguelito Hospital; (iv) implementation of a new primary health care model;
and (v) development and implementation of new management techniques and information systems at
the MOH central, regional and provider levels.
c) carry out institutional strengthening activities at the MOH central level to implement the pilot in the
SMHR, and initiate preparation activities for the scaling up of the reform to other Health Regions.
The project's key development objectives would not be assessed in terms of health outcome indicators
but would instead be measured by process indicators. This is because the project would be mainly
embracing beneficiary and institutional behavioral changes that take ae long time to consolidate. The
project is nevertheless expected to impact health outcome indicators in the medium and long term, upon
the completion of the 3 year implementation period.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 13846-PAN       Date of latest CAS discussion: December 28, 1994
Integration refers to the establishment of formal policy, financial, administrative, and service delivery linkages
between the MOH and CSS (La Forgia, Gerard. Challenging Health Service Stratification: Social Security-
Health Ministry Integration in Panama, 1973-1986. 1990). It does not refer to the integration of financing and
provision of health services nor to the integration of primary, secondary and tertiary levels of care.
2 Key strategic areas include (but are not limited to): i) health priorities, strategies and interventions (national health
plan); ii) investments (national investment plan); iii) quality/accreditation standards; iv) management
information systems; and (v) personnel deployment and training.



Page 3
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Panama's CAS focuses on reviving sustainable growth and alleviating poverty. Some of the GOP's
strategies to mitigate poverty include: (i) improving the efficiency and equity of social expenditures
through sector reforms, especially in education and health; curbing growth in the wage bill; instituting
cost recovery, and targeting subsidies to reach the most vulnerable groups; and (ii) institutional
modernization and capacity building. So far, the Bank is supporting this strategy through a lending
pipeline that includes the Economic Recovery Loan (economic policy), Rural Health Project, Basic
Education Project, Rural Poverty and Natural Resources Project, Social Investment Fund Project,
Utilities Restructuring Technical Assistance Project, and a proposed Public Policy Reform Loan under
preparation. It would also be supported by a Poverty Assessment Report which would provide a poverty
profile and assess the impact of major economic policies on the poor.
In the health sector, the Bank is currently financing the Rural Health Project, targeted at the poorest 28
districts of Panama and aimed at improving coverage and access to basic health services of the most
vulnerable of the poor (mainly rural areas and indigenous population) by: (i) providing nutritional
supplements to children under 5, and to breast-feeding and pregnant woman; (ii) increasing the coverage
of the water supply and basic sanitation systems; and (iii) strengthening the capacity of the MOH to
deliver these services. On the other hand, and as a complement of the current project, the proposed
project would be piloting a new model for organizing, providing and financing a full range of publicly
financed health services in the SMHR, aimed at improving the efficiency and equity in health
expenditures.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues
Overview: In the last few decades Panama has made important progress in terms of its health indicators.
Life expectancy has increased while infant and maternal mortality rates have decreased considerably.
Mortality and morbidity patterns of the Panamanian population (2.6 million) are those of the
epidemiological transitional phase (a coexistence of infectious and communicable diseases, with chronic
and injury related diseases). In terms of its organization, Panama has a mixed public and private health
system with public predominance in the financing and provision of health services. The sector is
comprised of three major players: the MOH, the CSS and the private sector. The MOH is responsible
for the policy making and regulation of the sector, as well as for financing and providing health services
to unsalaried, low-income and rural populations. On the other hand, the CSS finances and provides
health services mainly to salaried, middle-income, and urban populations. The private sector is
composed of a relatively small insurance industry, private hospitals/clinics, and NGOs. Panama spends
9.2%3 of GDP on health care (one of the highest levels in the LAC region, only comparable to Costa Rica
and Argentina). Nonetheless, health outcome and performance indicators are lower than expected, which
is mainly caused by issues related to equity, efficiency, quality, and rapid increase in health expenditures.
Inequity in access, utilization, and coverage of health services: Panama's health indicators hide
important differences among population groups. Those regions with the highest percentage of poor, rural
and indigenous populations have the worst indicators in the country, as well as the highest prevalence of
infectious diseases. Preliminary data analysis from the LSMS indicates that non-poor people seek health
care in 65% of cases of perceived illness, while the extreme poor seek health care only in 41% of the
cases (40% difference, the rate of the poor being the denominator). Inequity in access, utilization and
coverage of health services is caused among others by the unequal distribution of resources and services
throughout the country. Poor coordination and cross-subsidies among the MOH, CSS, and the private
sector also perpetuate this inequity. Furthermore, the current MOH's cost recovery scheme charges a
Source: WHO/PAHO 'Health Care Expenditures in Latin America: February, 1998'.  Other sources indicate
approximately 7.7% of GDP which are considered to underestimate private health expenditures.



Page 4
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
small flat fee to all population groups without adjusting by family income. This could lead- to the poor
subsidizing the services utilized by the more affluent population groups.
Inefficiency of health expenditures: Panama has one of the highest levels of health spending and
resources in the LAC region. However, health outcomes and performanice indicators are lower than
expected. The inefficiency in the sector is mainly derived from the existence of a disintegrated health
system. Disintegration in the financing and provision of health services among the three main sector
players promotes duplication and under-utilization of services, negates economies of scale, and creates
unnecessary increases in the cost of services. In addition, the MOH has weak policy making, financing,
and regulation capabilities, as well as deteriorated infrastructure, and obsolete management and
information systems. Most health expenditures are directed to secondary and tertiary care facilities
rather than to cost-effective primary care interventions. There is an excessive centralization of decision
making and management, which combined with high levels of bureaucracy, has promoted a culture of
poor management, no accountability for results and performance, and an inability to respond to local
needs in a timely fashion. There is no link between payment transfers to providers and performance
(both the MOH and CSS pay their providers through global budget and salaries), with little incentive to
improve efficiency and effectiveness. Moreover, there is a disorganized health services delivery and
referral system which lacks appropriate regulation (poor referral protocol and lack of clear definition of
health care levels), and financial incentives to moderate the demand of health services.
Poor quality of services: There are no incentives in the system to ensure quality of care. Consumers are
rarely consulted on the services provided, and have no choice of provider. Likewise, there are poor
community and individual participation mechanisms. Health services are not adequately supervised, and
there are no appropriate accreditation and quality control systems in place.
Rapid increase in health expenditures: Health expenditures have increased enormously in Panama in the
last decade. Total health expenditures have increased from 5.9% of GDP in 1980 to 9.2% in 1994. This
increase has been attributed to a large extent by the growth and aging of tlhe population, the introduction
of new technologies, and by an increase in the demand of services by the population. Large
inefficiencies in the sector have also contributed to the cost escalation. As Panama already spends a high
percentage of GDP on health, sector improvements would have to be achieved through a more efficient
and effective use of the existing resources.
Government Strategy
The GOP's development goals are poverty reduction and economic growth (Desarrollo Social con
Eficiencia Econ6mica, 1997-1999). The centerpiece of this strategy iis to improve the equity and
efficiency of social expenditures through sector reform programs. To this end, the GOP's strategy
emphasizes social protection of the most vulnerable population groups, decentralization of decision
making and financial management, and increased participation of the private sector in the social sectors.
The MOH's health policy adheres to the same goals and strategies (Consideraciones Sobre la
Modernizaci6n y Reforma del Sector Salud en Panama, julio de 1995). In order to achieve these goals,
the MOH and CSS have decided to implement a health sector reform program (See Health Policy Letter
and Corporate Agreement between the MOH and CSS, Annexes 11 and 12, respectively).
The strategy devised by both institutions is to carry out an incremental rather than big bang reform. The
reform program would integrate the MOH and the CSS in key strategy areas (See footnote 2 on page 2).
The strategic partnership would materialize through a corporate agreement signed by both institutions.
The initial phase of the reform (to be supported by the proposed project) would pilot a new model for
providing, organizing and financing health services in the SMHR, carry out institutional strengthening
activities at the MOH central level to support the implementation of the San Miguelito pilot, and initiate



Page 5
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
preparation activities to scale up the reform to other Health Regions. The project would be implemented
over a three-year period starting mid-1998. The second phase of the reform would encompass the
consolidation of activities initiated during the pilot, and the extension of the reform nationwide based on
lessons learned from the pilot. The long term result of the GOP's health sector reform program would
be a system operating in the following way: (i) the MOH carrying out policy making, regulation, and
public health activities, as well as financing health services for the poor through a public health insurance
scheme; (ii) a single purchasing agency that would receive funds from both the MOH and the CSS, and
would purchase health services from both public and private providers; (iii) decentralized and
autonomous provision of health services, with an increased participation of the private sector in the
provision of health services; and (iv) increased community participation in health affairs and care.
The San Miguelito pilot model includes changes at the beneficiary, provider, regional and central levels
of the health system.
At the beneficiary level, each insured or uninsured person would have a health card with information
about his/her insurance status and income level among others. The card would be the basis for the cost-
compensation system between the MOH and the CSS, as well as for the cost-recovery scheme adjusted
by family income. The beneficiaries would increase their participation in the health system through their
representation at the boards of the health region, the new San Miguelito Hospital, and the health centers.
Likewise, the regional health board would represent 70 family councils, which correspond to the 70
health zones in the region.
At the provider level, the MOH and CSS would integrate their health facilities and personnel into a
unique and coordinated health services provider network. The first level of care would comprise the 8
MOH health centers; the second one, the 2 CSS polyclinics and the new San Miguelito Hospital; and the
third one, the national reference hospitals. The referral of patients would be regulated through protocols,
management agreements, and financial incentives. In addition, public health facilities would increase
their levels of technical, administrative and financial autonomy. The provision of primary health care
services would be rendered by a "basic health team" and would focus on the family instead of the
individual (Modelo de Salud Familiar, Comunitario y Ambiental). Likewise, beneficiary registration at
the health facility would be based on families, not individuals. The community Local Health
Committees (LHC) and family councils would be organized into "health zones" of approximately 5,000
people or 1,000 families. Each basic health team would be in charge of one health zone. Several health
zones would be organized into a "health area", based around a health center, where primary care services
for the population and environment would be provided.
The new San Miguelito Hospital would serve both the insured and uninsured population. Although the
hospital would be public, it would be managed with higher degrees of autonomy and flexibility than the
other public hospitals. It would contract health personnel and carry out procurement processes according
to private sector regulation. In addition, the hospital would outsource some services such as laundry,
food, maintenance of industrial equipment, security, and the cafeteria-restaurant. The management of
the hospital would be supervised by a board with representatives from the MOH, CSS and local
community.
At the regional level, both the MOH and CSS would integrate their corresponding planning and
information regional units. The integration would materialize through a joint regional health plan and an
integrated management information system. The region and/or central levels (yet to be defined through
the implementation of the proposed project) would sign management agreements with each health
facility, linking the transfer of funds/resources with perfornance and outcome indicators. Likewise, the
region would sign similar agreements with the central level. The region would provide or contract out



Page 6
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
the provision of public health services. The pilot would also study new ways of transferring funds
among the central, regional and provider levels.
At the central level, the MOH would strengthen its policy making, regulatiion and financing functions. It
would also sign a corporate agreement with the CSS to integrate both institutions in key strategic areas.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices.
Sector issues to be addressed by the project
The project would pilot new instruments and institutional arrangements aimed at improving the equity
and efficiency of health expenditures. The project is expected to increase access and facilitate
utilization of health services, particularlyfor the poor, through: (i) the development and introduction of a
user identification system/card; (ii) the development and implementation of new community
participatory mechanisms; (iii) the implementation of a cost-compensation system between the MOH
and the CSS; and (iv) the development of a cost-recovery scheme that adjusts by family income.
Likewise, the project is expected to improve the efficiency of health expenditures through: (i) the
development of a corporate agreement between the MOH and the CSS, allowing for economies of scale,
eliminating service duplication, avoiding costly infrastructure expansion, and maximizing health
personnel deployment and mix; (ii) the development and implementation of a health services purchasing
function; (iii) the implementation of a new management option for the new San Miguelito Hospital; (iv)
the implementation of a new primary health care model; and (v) the development and implementation of
new management techniques and information systems at the MOH central, regional and provider levels.
Strategic choices
Major strategic options of the pilot are:
a) The implementation of an incremental rather than a big-bang health sector reform approach. The
complexity of the sector, the nature of the behavioral changes that are required, and the likely
opposition of the unions and physicians to change, encourage pilot testing the reform principles in
the SMHR, allowing for more consensus building, ownership, and capacity building.
b) The integration between the MOH, CSS, and the private sector in the provision of health services.
Current duplication and under utilization of services needs to be addressed. The proposed project
would take advantage of resources from the MOH, CSS and private sector, and would optimize their
use in the provision of health services. In the long term, this strategy would save public health
spending, particularly of capital investments.
c) The separation of the financing, purchasing and provision of health services functions. The
separation of functions improves the efficiency of health expenditures. Management agreements
would be signed between the financiers and providers of health services linking transfer of funds
with performance and outcome indicators. The proposed project would initiate the implementation
of a new purchasing of health services function in the MOH and CSS.
d) The new management option for the San Miguelito Hospital as an alternative to current management
practice of the rest ofpublic hospitals. Greater levels of autonomy and flexibility in the management
of hospitals are key elements for improving hospital efficiency and effectiveness. The proposed
project would support the implementation of a new management olption for the San Miguelito
Hospital aimed at achieving these goals.



Page 7
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
e) The strengthening of primary health care as opposed to fostering hospital care. A greater allocation
of resources to primary health care is more cost-effective than spending resources on tertiary hospital
care. The new model piloted in the SMHR would have a more comprehensive approach to primary
health care, and would focus its interventions on the family instead of the individual.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                  Categorv       Cost Incl      % of     Bank-       % of
Contingencies    Total   financing    Bank-
(US$WM                 (USSM!   financing
I.  Piloting of a new model for       Institution        3.21         53        2.25        70
providing, organizing, and        building,
financing health services in the  policy,
SMHR The proposed project         physical
would support the:                investments
.  Design and implementation of the
health services purchasing function
*  Strengthening and integration of the
Health Services Region
*  Strengthening and integration of the
health services provider network
*  Increase of community participation
*  Design and implementation of a
social marketing campaign
*  Development and implementation of
a monitoring and evaluation system
II. Institutional strengthening        Institution       2.02         34        1.45        72
activities at the central level (MOH  building,
and CSS ) to support the             policy
implementation of the pilot, and
development of a strategic
partnership between the MOH and
the CSS. The proposed project
would support the:
*  Strengthening of the MOH
*  Development of the MOH's new
financing role
III. Preparation activities to scale up  Institution     0.30          5        0.26        87
the reform to other Health           building
Regions. The proposed project
would support the:
* Carrying out of studies, pilots,
technical assistance and training
activities to scale up the reform to
other health regions
IV. Project Management                   Project         0.50          8        0.34        68
Management
Total                                                    6.03        100        4.30         71



Page 8
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Components II and III involve mostly studies and practically no implementation. Many of Component I
activities have already initiated their implementation through Japanese Grant financing (See attachment
to annex 2: Current status of project activities).
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
N/A. Already covered in B.3
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits
The project would assist Panama's public health institutions to pilot strategies to broadly address poverty
reduction and institutional development. It would enable Panamanian health officials to build
institutional capacity in preparation for the scaling up of the reform, as well as piloting new technical,
financial and social interventions. In addition, the implementation of the pilot would enable the MOH
and CSS to build consensus with key stakeholders, learn from experience, and build ownership for the
reform.
Target Population
Component I would benefit the SMHR, comprising a total population of 406,455 (15.4 % of the
country's total population). The selection of the SMHR for piloting different strategies is based on the
following facts: (i) a large percent of the population lives in it; (ii) it is one of the most neglected Health
Regions in terms of public health expenditures and availability of human and physical resources; (iii)
there is an opportunity to implement a new management and health care model because of the
construction of a new hospital; (iv) there is willingness, and technical and managerial capacity of
regional managers and personnel to implement the reform; and (iv) non-duplication and coordination
with other donor/financing institutions: the IDB is providing assistance for Cocle, Herrera, and the
Region Metropolitana Health Regions. Component II would have a nationwide impact through the
design of new policies, and institutional management and financial arrangements. Component III would
benefit selected Health Regions through the initiation of preparation activities for the scaling up of the
reform. (The GOP currently wishes to initiate preparation activities in Los Santos, Veraguas and Panama
Oeste Health Regions)
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Coordination and Management. The proposed project would be implemented by the MOH
through a Project Coordination Unit (PCU). This PCU would stem from the Planning Directorate at the
Advisory Level of the MOH. At the political level, a National Commission for Health Care Reform
(CPR) would be established with senior political representatives from both the MOH and CSS to define
national health reform policy and oversight related activities in both institutions. At the technical level,
the MOH's Planning Directorate would establish a Reform Technical Unit (UTR) with technical
representatives from both the MOH and the CSS, to coordinate health sector reform activities within
their institution's national levels, Regional Health Directorates, the proposed project's PCU and other
project units. All reform activities would take place under CPR policy orientation. The PCU would be
responsible for overall project coordination and for implementing project components II and III. On the
other hand, the San Miguelito Regional Health Directorate would be responsible for executing project
component I. The Instituto Conmemorativo Gorgas de Estudios de Salud (ICGES) would be the
executing agency for two studies under project component II (burden of disease and cost-effectiveness of
interventions, and quality control and accreditation systems). Also, the ICGES would provide technical
support for the process of monitoring and evaluating the progress and the impact of the reform.



Page 9
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
The PCU would be composed of technical and administrative sub-units. The technical sub-unit would be
responsible for monitoring and evaluation of project execution in each component, supporting executing
units, and coordinating and supervising specific technical activities of the project. The administrative
sub-unit would be responsible for providing administrative and financial support for all project activities,
including the maintenance of accounting records, disbursements processing, maintaining administrative
records, contracts, and carrying out related activities. All project activities would be subject to the
operational procedures and protocols agreed upon in the Operational Manual.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements. The record of project transactions would
be maintained by the PCU with appropriate support documentation for the transactions made by the
project. The PCU would prepare periodic progress reports (substantive indicators, procurement and
financial) required by the Bank for purposes of disbursements, and other evaluations during the
execution of the project. The Regional Directorate, through its Office of Administration and Finance
would be responsible for procurement of works, goods and contracting of consultants related to project
component I. This Office would also be responsible for maintaining accounts and records, satisfactory to
the Bank, for all the expenditures and execution of the project's portion of the budget that would be
transferred by the PCU. Audits of central accounts, Special Accounts and the financial statements of the
project, including a separate opinion on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) would be subject to normal
GOP accounting and auditing procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank.
MINSA has had experience in the areas of project financial and technical monitoring under its Unidad
Administradora del Proyecto (UAP) in the Rural Health Project. Some of this experience would be
transferred to the Planning Directorate. The PCU has began to build its financial, accounting and
procurement team on the basis of experiences and lessons learned in the ongoing project.  For
negotiations, the key financial positions (accounting and disbursements), and the procurement specialist
would be in place to ensure adequate financial administration by effectiveness. On the basis of LAC's
Financial Management Specialist assessment of the management arrangements, it has been agreed that
the PCU would take a series of actions to develop and install an integrated financial and physical
monitoring system, including the organization and maintenance of separate accounts for the project and
the inclusion of its operation in the Operational Manual (OM). For effectiveness, the PCU would ensure
that the project's financial and accounting system would be able to record and control project
transactions with the appropriate supporting documentation to comply with the normal GOP's and
Bank's accounting and auditing procedures. Added features to establish a full fledged financial
monitoring system (FMS) would be developed during project implementation (LIL). The OM would be
revised at this point to include the final design of the FMS.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. The PCU would monitor the project's implementation. It
would coordinate annual project reviews with all relevant entities to assess project progress and agree on
a consolidated program for the following year. The project would also be carrying out a baseline study
no later than three months after project effectiveness. This study would be used as a reference to monitor
progress in the mid-term and final reviews of the project. A monitoring and evaluation proposal
satisfactory to the Bank has been designed and would be included in the Operational Manual. Lessons
learned during implementation of the pilot would directly feed into the scaling up of the reform to other
health regions. The project would support an extensive consultative process early on with key
stakeholders in order to build consensus, disseminate the results of the pilot, and facilitate the extension
of the reform. Trigger indicators for scaling up the SMHR pilot are included in an attachment to Annex
1.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The main alternative considered was to design a traditional Specific Investment Loan (SIL) versus the



Page 10
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
newly approved Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL). The team decided. and management concurred,
that the LIL was a more suitable instrument for supporting the GOP's reform strategy. The proposed
pilot approach is more suitable than the traditional investment approach because: i) the reform process
requires an enormnous change in institutional and individual behavior that needs to be carefully managed
and constantly monitored; ii) the reform has a wide range of new interventions which need to be tested
before their extension nationwide; and iii) the reforn process would require decentralized and
participatory implementation mechanisms involving a wide range of stakeholders with different, and
sometimes conflicting interests. Piloting the reform in the SMHR would serve as a learning tool to
enhance the likelihood of successful outcomes in the scaling up of the reform program in the future. The
use of a LIL would enable the country and the Bank to understand the dynamics of the change process, to
gain consensus on the reform among critical stakeholders (unions, medical associations, community, and
other political parties), and enable the implementation of small discrete investments and capacity
building efforts before extending the reform to other regions. Hence, it would decrease the risk of failure
when extending the reform, and thus of the follow-up operation.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,. ongoing
andplanned):
Sector Issue                      Project             Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Inplernentation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Malnutrition and lack of rural water supply  Rural Health Project.     S                S
and sanitation                         Ongoing
Inadequate quality and infrastructure of  Basic Education Project.     S                S
basic education in poorest areas       Ongoing.
Rural Poverty                          Rural Poverty and Natural      N/A              N/A
Resources Project. Not
yet effective.
Inadequate infrastructure and services  Social Investment Fund         S                S
among poorest population groups        Project. Effective in
January 5, 1998.
Inadequate regulation and provision of  Utilities Restructuring       N/A              N/A
electricity, telecommunications, water and   Technical Assistance
sanitation services                    Project. Was approved by
the board on January 20,
1998
Wide range of public policy issues     Public Policy Reform           M/A              N/A
Loans. To be presented to
the board on July 21,
1998.
Other development agencies
IDB                                    Rehabilitation of Health
Services.
Taiwan                                 Rehabilitation of the
Health Services Network.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 1 1
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Project design reflects the experience gathered from health reform projects elsewhere, as well as the
current Rural Health Project.
a) Develop sufficient institutional capacity and cooperation between different GOP institutions. The
project has engaged other Ministries in the design of the project, and particularly the MIPPE for
assuring adequate budget allocation for the project. The project would also carry out consensus
building activities to seek support from the legislative assembly and other political parties through
the implementation of a social marketing campaign and the holding of workshops, seminars, and
other events.
b) Establish flexibility and simplicity in project design. The MOH and CSS intend to implement the
reform in phases, so that they can build the necessary institutional capacity while demonstrating
results in the initial phase. This would be achieved by piloting the new health model in the SMHR
which would allow them to draw conclusions at an early stage before scaling up the reform, as well
as to show visible results to the beneficiaries and counteract political resistance.
c) Allow for adequate monitoring and supervision. The proposed project would involve close follow-
up in the field and continuity of consultants and Bank staff supervision, so that the necessary
modifications can be made in a timely fashion, and so that the right weight is put on critical issues
identified at the local level. Monitoring and evaluation features built into project design would be
critical as the basis for scaling up the reform program.
d) Cooperation between the different donor/financing institutions. The proposed project has cooperated
extensively with other donor/financing institutions through joint preparation missions with the
WHO/PAHO, and consultation with the IDB. The GOP's clear policy framework would also
facilitate the cooperation and coordination with other donor/financing institutions.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The borrower has taken decisive actions not only to prepare the project, but to implement the reform by:
(i) creating a Political MOH-CSS Joint Commission (Comisi6n Politica de Alto Nivel MOH-CSS,
established in July 1996) to conduct the reform; (ii) implementing a special joint MOH-CSS
Management Unit at the SMHR level (Unidad de Gesti6n, established in November, 1996) to design and
implement the new health care system model; (iii) creating a joint MOH-CSS project preparation team
through a special MOH resolution (Resoluci6n Ministerial No 03957, del 21 de julio de 1997); (iv)
officially requesting the Bank (through a letter from MIPPE dated August 6, 1997) a project
identification mission and the initiation of project preparation activities; (vi) submitting to the Bank a
health policy letter (See Annex 11); and (vii) submitting to the Bank a Corporate Agreement between the
MOH and CSS for implementing the project (See Annex 12).
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's unique contribution to the project is in the areas of institutional restructuring and the
economic and financial arrangements included in the project. The Bank would provide international
expertise and experience drawn together from other countries that have implemented similar reforms,
including the UK, Spain, Costa Rica, and Chile among others. This assistance would allow for
improvements in both the design and implementation phases. Special effort has been taken to adapt
policy and institutional changes to the Panamanian context. A key Bank strategy in preparing the project
has been to build both institutional capacity and ownership. The Bank has not only sent international



Page 12
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
consultants to Panama, but has promoted and financed GOP's health officials attendance to workshops
and training courses outside the country.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$   million; ERR=  % []Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[x] Other No economic analysis is required as it would be a LIL operation and the project would be
supporting the implementation of a pilot. The project nevertheless would be testing strategies with
positive rates of return.
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV=US$   million; FRR=  %
Fiscal impact:
There are very few physical investments, and all are geared towards the rehabilitation of primary health
care facilities and administrative offices. Hence, there are very few recurrent costs, and therefore the
project is expected to have a negligible fiscal impact.
3. Technical.
On one hand, some of the options to be tested have been best practice elsewhere, and the object of the
project is to determine if the selected technical options are suited to the local environment. On the other
hand, the project would be implementing innovative and creative new instruments that have not been
tested elsewhere, such as the establishment of a corporate agreement between the MOH and the CSS.
4. Institutional:
a) Executing agencies: Although the proposed project would be implemented by both the MOH and
CSS, the GOP believes that the MOH should be the only implementing agency. The GOP wants to
avoid delays in project approval by the board of directors of the CSS, and wants to prevent complex
implementation arrangements that could delay project implementation. Furthermore, the CSS would
not be carrying out any physical investments, but would benefit only from technical assistance and
training activities. Nevertheless, the GOP has agreed to create a joint MOH and CSS project
preparation/implementation team, and to establish an agreement between the MOH and CSS to
implement the project (See Annex 12).
Project management: The constitution of a good management team is crucial as Panama's public
institutions have traditionally had weak implementation capacity combined with a slow and
inefficient Government bureaucracy. This has been the case in the Bank's Rural Health Project.
Therefore, the project would be staffed and managed by a competent implementation team at both
the MOH's central and regional levels.
A recent assessment carried out as part of project preparation indicates the following: on one hand,
the Regional Directorate of San Miguelito, with international technical assistance, has demonstrated
it has capacity to implement changes related to the reform and to manage project preparation
activities through a project coordinating unit, now familiar with Bank procedures. This Directorate
is undergoing a reorganization, preparing itself for a more efficient and client-centered provision of
services. It is expected that this executing agency would be fully capable, with some external
support, for carrying out activities included under project component I. Likewise, at the central
level, the MOH has experience in executing projects with external financing. However, the
Government's slow bureaucratic processes are also evident in this Ministry. This, compounded with



Page 13
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
an occasional lack of counterpart financing has sometimes resulted in costly delays for project
activities. To reduce this risk, the project proposes to require the GOP to establish a "revolving
account" that would cover counterpart funds for the first three months of expenditures and could be
replenished periodically. This should reduce somewhat the risk of running out of funds. In regard to
the procurement of works, goods, and services, the MOH at the central and regional level has
experience in these processes. Nevertheless, the PCU would hire a procurement specialist to assist
all executing agencies in carrying out these processes.
5. Social:
Two social assessment studies were completed during the preparation phase.
a) Study on perceptions and expectations of the population with regard to the health system. The study
conducted focus groups with the general population and community leaders. The study encompassed
2 out of the 4 indigenous communities in the SMHR (the 4 communities represent 1.4% of the total
population). Positive and negative issues were identified in the study with regard to the current
health system. Positive aspects pointed out included the technical and professional capacity of health
personnel.  Negative issues included limited walk-in hours; long waiting lists; inefficient
appointment systems; poor treatment on the part of health personnel; and poor physical condition of
the health centers. Community expectations for the new San Miguelito Hospital included: the
hospital cater for insured and uninsured beneficiaries; financing for the poor be guaranteed by the
state; quality of management be similar to the private sector; drug distribution be improved; better
supervision of personnel. including an evaluation system that incorporates users; and community
participation in health centers be strengthened.
b) Mapping of social participation. This study identified the main community associations and
groupings, as well as the key decision-makers and stakeholders (See participatory approach).
Likewise, it also assessed the performance level of the LHC.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category   []A   [] B   [X ] C
The project is not expected to have an environmental impact, nor cause any major waste. Most project
activities deal with institutional building and policy making. However, during its implementation, the
project would finance: (i) the development of new laws and regulation related to environmental issues
(as part of the regulatory role of the MOH); and (ii) an environmental audit and master plan for the
management of medical waste.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
a) Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
*  The community and community associations have been involved in the project through their
participation in the social assessment and different workshops and seminars. Under the project, LHC
would be strengthened through capacity building activities. Community participation would be
increased by the project through their representation at the advisory boards of the new San Miguelito
Hospital, the health region, and health centers.
*  Health personnel has been involved in workshops, in the discussions of the new primary health care
model, and in the integration of the new MOH/CSS teams.
*  Unions have been invited to discuss the new primary health care and hospital management models
for the SMHR. Unions have agreed that health facilities require a greater degree of autonomy in
their management.



Page 14
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
* The private sector has been invited to discuss the new health care model and the management model
for the new hospital. In the future, the private sector would be contracted by the public sector to
provide different services.
b) Other key stakeholders:
*  other political parties would be involved in consensus building activities, and workshops as part of
the project.
*  legislative assembly: legislators belonging to the SMHR and members of the health commission are
familiar with the new health care model and support it.
*  GOP's executive branch (MIPPE and Presidency) supports the project as a strategy to improve
efficiency and equity in social expenditures (See Annex 11).
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This project would explicitly target the long-term sustainability of the health sector, by attempting to
increase productivity and enable the Panamanian administration to put in place mechanisms for long
term savings and develop alternative financing systems.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                       Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
Project outputs to development objectives
Labor strikes by health personnel opposing to the   H        Consensus-building, social marketing
new management option for the San Miguelito                  campaign, incremental approach of the
Hospital                                                     reform.
No continuity of the health policy by the next      S        Consensus-building with key
administration, and failure to extend the reform to          stakeholders, social marketing
other health regions.                                        campaign.
Project components to outputs
Insufficient and delayed budget allocation for the  M        Engagement of MIPPE from the initial
project                                                      stages of-the reform/project, low level
of investments and operating cost of the
project, creation of a revolving account
for the project.
Lack of continued cooperation and coordination      S        Constitution of a Corporate Agreement
between the MOH and the CSS                                  between the CSS and the MOH, Joint
Political Commission and teams for
project preparation and implementation.
No coordination and cooperation with projects from  N        GOP oversight, clear policy framework,
other donors/financial institutions                          Joint preparation missions with PAHO,
Constitultion of the UTR.
Overall Risk Rating                                 S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 15
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The most controversial aspect of the project involves the new management option for the San Miguelito
Hospital. It consists of two main issues: (i) the increasing role of the private sector in the provision of
services financed by the public sector (outsourcing services); and (ii) the hiring of health personnel
through private regulation/arrangements. Originally, the GOP's reform proposal considered contracting
the management of the new hospital to the private sector through ICB. However, due to initial
opposition of physicians to this proposal, the President nominated a special committee with the objective
of reaching consensus on the management option for the new hospital. The committee was composed of
representatives from the Office of the President, MOH, CSS, medical unions and the private sector.
Physician's opposition to the proposal focused on the issues of private sector profitability with public
funding, and labor stability. As a result of negotiations, the committee agreed on basic principles that
would guide the management option for the new hospital. The main points of the agreement are: (i) the
hospital would be public; (ii) the hospital would have increased levels of management autonomy; and
(iii) the hiring of health personnel and acquisition mechanisms for the hospital would be made through
private sector regulation/arrangements. Since this agreement was reached (late October 1997), GOP's
efforts have concentrated on finding the best legal instrument to implement the principles agreed upon.
At the time of the completion of this report, the most feasible legal instrument for implementing the new
management option for the hospital would be an hospital corporation. The GOP has submitted to the
Legislative Assembly a special law for this purpose. The GOP is confident that this law would be passed
because it has a majority of representatives in the Assembly.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
-  A project coordinating unit in place (PCU).
  Adoption of the Operational Manual (OM) satisfactory to the Bank.
*  The initial deposit of US$250,000 by the GOP in a revolving fund to cover counterpart financing.
D  The GOP would present to the Bark an action plan for implementing the new management option of
the San Miguelito Hospital that is satisfactory to the Bank.
*  The signing of management agreements between the region and 3 health centers.
2. Other [classijfy according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
Negotiations:
*  The presentation of the GOP health policy letter.
Loan Approval:
* The establishment of a corporate agreement between the MOH and CSS to execute the project that is
satisfactory to the Bank.
*  The passing of legislation regarding the creation of the hospital corporation.
Other:
*  The GOP would enter into management agreements with each San Miguelito health facility in
accordance with the operational manual.
*  The GOP would submit to the Bank an annual progress report, including updated key performance
indicators, and a proposed annual investment program for the upcoming year. The two would
conduct project implementation reviews annually.
*  The GOP would conduct a base line study referred to in Annex 2, Project Component 1, vi
(monitoring and evaluation system) at the latest 90 days after project effectiveness. It would also
conduct a mid-term and final evaluation study (referred to previously), between 18 and 35 months
after project effectiveness.



Page 16
Project Title: Health Seclor Reform Pilot Project
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality. The Project Implementation Plan was presented to the Bank on January 28, 1998.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Teain Leader/Task M nager: Hernan Montenegro
Acting S  or Manager/Director: Xavier Coll
Countr M
Country Manager/Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo



Page 17
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                         (Goal to Bank Mission)
.  Poverty alleviation     *  Improved health and      *  MOH statistics         *  Continuity and
measured in terms of       nutrition indicators such   *  CSS statistics         consistency of
health status              as infant and maternal    *  MIPPE statistics         complementary
mortality rates and    *  LSMS surveys                social policies
malnutrition rates.
Progran Development
Objective:
*  Reform program          *  All Health Regions of    *  MOH statistics         *  Consistency and
extended nation-wide       the country             *  CSS statistics             continuity of GOP's
aimed at improving the     implementing the reform   *  MIPPE statistics         social/economic
health status of the       based on lessons learned                              poverty policies
population through         from the pilot and
increases in efficiency,   adapted to local situation
effectiveness and equity
of health expenditures.
Project Development                                                              (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
*  Efficiency of health    *  Ratio of physicians      *  MOH statistics         *  Sustained economic
expenditures and equity    primary care visits per    *  CSS statistics          growth
in the use of health       day increased from 24 to  *  MIPPE statistics     *  Consistency and
services improved in the   30 (25% increase)       *  LSMS survey                continuity of GOP's
SMHR                   *  Visits referred from     *  Project evaluation         social/economic
health clinics to new      studies                   poverty policies
hospital lower than 5%
*  Bed occupancy rate of
new hospital between 80
and 85%
* Bed turnover rate of 75
in new hospital
* Rate of primary care
visits per year (nurses
and physicians)
increased from 1.64 to
2.14 (30% increase)
* Difference of rate of
primary care visits to
physicians per year
between insured and
uninsured decreased
from 0.66 to 0.46 (30%
decrease)



Page 18
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Outputs:                                                                       (Outputs to Objective)
*  Model for planning,     *  Management agreements  *  Project progress       *  No labor strikes by
purchasing, providing      with the region's new      reports                  health personnel
and financing health       hospital; 2 policlinicas    *  MIS                  opposing to the new
services developed and     (CSS); and 8 centros de   *  Supervision reports    management option
operational                salud (MOH) signed by   *  Project evaluation       piloted in the San
March 1999                 studies                  Miguelito Hospital
*  Health card issued to                            *  Continuity of the
60% of the region's                                 health policy by the
insured and uninsured                               next administration
population
* Region's integrated
(MOH and CSS)
Planning and
Information Unit
established and
operational by June
1998
*  Region's integrated
(MOH and CSS) health
plan (priority needs and
interventions) produced
by March 1999
*  Region's integrated
(MOH and CSS)
management
information systems
established and
operational
*  New management option
for the San Miguelito
Hospital established and
operational by March
1999
*  100% of the population
covered by the new
primary care model
*  80% of surface in direct
service provision areas
in 8 health centers
constructed/ restored
*  50 Community Family
Councils established and
operational
*  Monitoring and
evaluating system
designed and operational
by June 1998



Page 19
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
*  Institutional           *  Proposal and plan for   *  Project progress
strengthening at the      restructuring the MOH's    reports
MOH central level          central level, including    *  MIS
initiated                  management             *  Supervision reports
information systems and  *  Project evaluation
fmnancing role,            studies
developed
* About 7 laws and
regulations to implement
the reform nationwide
drafted
*  Corporate agreement
between the MOH and
CSS in key strategic
areas signed
*  Cost-compensation
system between the
MOH and CSS
operational
*  Preparation for         *  Reform management       *  Project progress
extension of health        units implemented in at    reports
reform to other Health    least other three Health    *  MIS
Regions initiated.         Regions.               *  Supervision reports
*  Project evaluation
studies
Project Components/Sub-    Inputs: (budget for each                            (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2    component) (US$M)
for project description)
I. Piloting of a new model   3.21                     *  Project progress      *  Sufficient and timely
for providing, organizing                                reports                   allocated budget for
and financing health                                  *  MIS                      the project
services in the SMHR:                                 *  Supervision reports   *  Continued
cooperation and
*  Designing and                                                                   coordination
Implementing the Health                                                        between the MOH
Services Purchasing                                                            and the CSS
Function                                                                   *  Coordination and
*  Strengthening and                                                               collaboration with
Integrating the Health                                                         projects from other
Services Region                                                                donors/financial
*  Strengthening and                                                               institutions
Integrating the Health
Services Provider
Network
*  Increasing Community
Participation
*  Designing and
Implementing a Social
Marketing Campaign
*  Developing and



Page 20
Project Ttle: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Narrative Summary      Key Perfornance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation   -Critical Assumptions
Implementing a
Monitoring and
Evaluation System
II. Institutional          2.02                       *  Project progress
strengthening activities at                               reports
the MOH's central level to                            *  MIS
support the implementation                            *  Supervision reports
of the San Miguelito pilot,
and development of a
strategic partnership
between the MOH and the
CSS:
* Strengthening the MOH
* Developing the MOH's
new Financing Role
III. Preparation activities    0.30   ,               *  Project progress
to scale up the reform to                                 reports
other Health Regions:                                 *  MIS
Supervision reports
* Carrying out studies,
pilots, technical
assistance and training
activities to scale up the
reform to other health
regions
IV. Project Management    0.50



Page 21
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Attachment to Annex 1
Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Trigger Indicators For Pilot Extension
KEY POLICY/STRATEGY               TRIGGER INDICATORS    MEANS OF VERIFICATION
Integration between the MOH     *  Corporate agreement          *  Annual implementation
and CSS in key strategic areas     between the MOH and CSS         reviews
(and subsidiary agreements)   *  Annual progress reports
signed and being            *  Base line, mid-term, and
implemented                    final evaluation
studies/surveys
*  Supervision/BTO reports
*  Project ICR
Separation of the financing,    *  Purchasing function
purchasing and provision of         established and operational
health services functions
*  Management agreements
between the financiers and
providers of health services
signed and being
implemented in the SMHR
Increased hospital management    *  San Miguelito Hospital
autonomy                           corporation law approved by
Legislative Assembly
*  New management option for
the San Miguelito Hospital
being implemented
Strengthening of primary health    *  New primary health care
care                               model being implemented in
the SMHR
*  Basic Health Teams
established and fully
operational in the SMHR
Increased community             *  Board of San Miguelito
participation                      Hospital established and
operational
*  Board of San Miguelito
Health Region established
and operational



Page 22
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Annex 2
Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Detailed Project Description
The project's main objective is to support the GOP's health strategy to improve the efficiency of
health expenditures, and the accessibility and utilization of health services across all population
groups, particularly the poor. The project would pilot a new model for providing, organizing and
financing health services in the SMHR; carry out institutional strengthening activities at the
MOH central level to implement the pilot, develop a strategic partnership between the MOH and
CSS; and initiate preparation activities for the scaling up of the reform to other Health Regions.
Project Component 1 - Piloting of a new model for providing, oirganizing, and financing
health services in the SMHR (US$3.21 million, 53% of project costs)
The component would implement the piloting of a new model for providing, organizing and
financing health services in the SMHR. The execution of the component would be carried-out
by the Health Region. It consists of the following sub-components and activities:
i) Designing and Implementing the Health Services Purchasing Function.
a) Creating the health services purchasing function. This activity comprises technical assistance
and training required for creating and implementing the new health se;rvices purchasing function
in both the MOH and CSS. The creation of this function is a key element to separate the
financing from the provision of health services in the public sector. The signing of management
agreements between financiers and providers, would link the transfer/payments to providers with
outcomes and performance indicators, facilitate the contracting of services with the private
sector, and promote internal market competition among providers. Specifically, the activity
would deliver the following products: a regulatory and normative body; an operational manual; a
financial management manual; auditing and quality control procedures; management agreement
documents; training of personnel; and technical assistance and sulpervision. It would also
include the production of the Region's health plan and a catalogue of preferred services and
interventions.
b) Designing alternative transfer/payment mechanisms.  This activity includes technical
assistance and training needed to explore and develop new methods for transferring funds and
paying health service providers. It also includes the design and implementation of new local
cost-recovery schemes at the provider level.  These new mechanisms would allow the
introduction of financial incentives to improve provider efficiency ancl cost-containment, as well
as improving the equity in social expenditures. In turn, the new cost-recovery schemes would
contribute to the financing of health facilities, but more importantly, to control and modulate the
demand of health services. Specifically, the products expected from this activity are: a study on
alternative methods of transfers/payments to providers and cost-recovery schemes; TOR, a study
and manual for transfers/payments to providers and cost-recovery schemes; training of
personnel; and technical assistance and supervision.
c) User identification. This activity includes technical assistance and training required to track
patients, creating a data base, classified by income and insurance status, and providing a health
card to the Region's population. The identification of the users is a key element for the
introduction of the new model in the San Miguelito Region. It would provide the basis for the



Page 23
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
cost-compensation system between the MOH and CSS, as well as adjust the cost-recovery
scheme by family income. It would also facilitate access and utilization of health services by all
population groups, especially the poor. Specifically, the activity would produce: a population
survey and classification; data base; and provision of a health card.
ii) Strengthening the Health Services Region.
a) Developing and implementing new management techniques. This activity considers technical
assistance and training needed for strengthening the Health Region's planning, management,
surveillance and financing capabilities. The Health Region faces new challenges in light of a
new relationship with a more autonomous health services provider network; with regard to the
integration of planning and information systems with the CSS; in determining the Region's
health priorities and preferred interventions; and in strengthening its public health and
surveillance functions.  Specifically, the activity would deliver: norms and manuals for
management of personnel, medical supplies/drugs and quality control systems; the establishment
of a cost-compensation system; the constitution of a public health surveillance system; training
of personnel; and supervision and technical assistance.
b) Designing and implementing management information systems. This activity includes
technical assistance, training and investments required to design and implement the new
integrated MOH and CSS MIS. These MIS activities include both the Region and health
services provider network. The integrated MIS is a key element necessary to implement the
pilot. It would facilitate the management, monitoring and evaluation components of the reform.
Specifically, the activity would deliver the following products: system design; software;
computer equipment and physical accommodations; training of personnel; and supervision and
technical assistance.
iii) Strengthening and Integrating the Health Services Provider Network.
a) Developing and implementing new management techniques. This activity considers technical
assistance and training needed to improve overall management capabilities of the health services
provider network. It includes activities for the new San Miguelito Hospital and the clinics from
both the MOH and CSS. It includes areas such as local planning/programming, personnel
management; financial management and budgeting; medical supplies/drugs management; and
maintenance, among others. The goal of this activity is to improve health facilities micro-
efficiency and allow increased degrees of autonomy and accountability. Specific products of this
kind include: norms and manuals; training of personnel; and supervision and technical
assistance.
b) Implementing the new primary health care model. This activity includes technical assistance
and training required to implement the new primary health care model in the SMHR. The new
service delivery model is a centerpiece for shifting from the current highly hospitalized and
curative system to a more ambulatory and preventive one. The goal of this activity is to increase
efficiency of health system allocations and cost-effectiveness. The provision of primary health
care services would be rendered by a "basic health team" and focus on the family instead of the
individual. The team would be composed of pediatricians, psychiatrists, gynecologists, dentists,
university nurses, nutritionists, psychologists, social workers, health educators, pharmacists,
microbiologists, veterinarians, and sanitary inspectors. The individual's clinical record would
become part of a family history, which includes data related to the relatives. Likewise,



Page 24
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
beneficiary registration at the health facility would be based on families, not on individuals. The
community would be organized into "health zones" of approximately 5,000 people or 1,000
families. Each basic health team would be in charge of one health zone. Several health zones
would be organized into a "health area", based around a health center, where primary care
services would be provided. The services provided would not only include those for the
individual, but also those for the environment. Specifically, the activity would produce: training
of personnel; and supervision and technical assistance.
c) Rehabilitation and equipment of health facilities. This activity includes technical assistance
and investments needed for the rehabilitation and equipment of both the primary health care
network and the regional offices of the SMHR. It includes medical, industrial and office
equipment. This activity is complementary to the institutional changes that the implementation
of the pilot requires. In order to be eligible expenses, investments to be carried-out under this
activity should: be linked to institutional modernization initiatives; not cause an increase in
recurrent costs over 10% of the investment; benefit the quality and perception of health services
of the users; and not exceed US$60,000 of total cost of a civil work contract and/or US$40,000.
of total cost of an equipment contract. The guidelines and procedures of this activity would be
outlined in the project's operational manual. Specifically, this activity would produce: studies
and designs; civil works; and equipment.
iv) Increasing Community Participation.
This sub-component considers technical assistance and training required to create and empower
community participatory mechanisms in the SMHR. The activity would strengthen existing
LHC and other community organizations, as well as implement new participatory mechanisms
such as the representation at the boards of the new San Miguelito Hospital and the Health
Region.  Specific products of this activity include: operational nmanuals; training of the
community; and technical assistance and supervision.
v) Designing and Implementing a Social Marketing Campaign.
This sub-component includes technical assistance and execution of a social marketing campaign
to "sell" the health care reform. The activity would be an essential strategy to communicate the
reform to main stakeholders. In addition, it would provide the basis for consensus building
among key stakeholders, as well as for creating ownership of the process. The campaign would
be targeted to users, but also to other relevant parties. Specifically, the activity would produce: a
marketing plan; materials and execution of the campaign; and presentations, workshops and
seminars.
vi) Developing and implementing a monitoring and evaluation system.
This sub-component considers the technical assistance and training required for designing and
implementing a monitoring and evaluation system for the health reform. This activity would
provide the data required for managing, adjusting and learning from the pilot. It would be the
basis for future policy making and determine whether to expand, modify or void the experience
in the SMHR, but more importantly, in other Health Regions. It would include quantitative and
qualitative data analysis. In addition, it would monitor/evaluate resources, processes, and
impact/outcome indicators. An important advance with respect to the prevailing practice in the



Page 25
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
country, it would include data collection from qualitative aspects of health services from the
users. It would include a base line study, and a mid-term, and final evaluation of the pilot.
Specific products relevant to this activity include: a study; technical assistance; and training of
personnel.
Project Component 2 - Institutional strengthening activities at the central level (MOH) to
support the implementation of the pilot, and development of a strategic partnership
between the MOH and the CSS (US$2.02 million, 34% of project costs)
The component would initiate the strengthening of the MOH central level in the areas of policy
making, regulation and financing in order to support the pilot. It would also implement the
corporate agreement between the MOH and CSS in key strategic areas. The execution of the
component would be carried-out by the MOIHs Planning Directorate and the ICGES Institute. It
consists of the following sub-components and activities:
i) Strengthening the MOH.
a) Developing a restructuring and reorganization plan for the MOH. This activity includes
technical assistance, training and investments required to adapt the MOH's organizational and
functional structure to the reform. The new model of providing, organizing, and financing
health services at the regional level requires institutional and organizational changes at all levels
of the system. This activity, combined with others from the same component, would aim to
increase the central level's policy making, regulation and financing roles, while implementing the
decentralization of the provision of health services at the provider level. It would also
materialize the separation of financing, purchasing and provision of health services. From the
policy making point of view, it includes a study on national and regional health priorities and
interventions using the burden of disease and cost-effectiveness analysis methodologies. From
the organizational point of view, it includes the study, action plan and training required to
restructure the current MOH organization and functions. In addition, it would also include some
minor physical and equipment investments to support the restructuring. The criteria and
procedures for these investments would be outlined in the project's operational manual.
Specifically, the activity would deliver the following products: a study and implementation plan
for the MOH's restructuring, a study on burden of disease and cost-effectiveness of health
interventions; technical assistance and supervision; and training of personnel; civil works; and
office equipment.
b) Developing accreditation systems. This activity considers technical assistance and training
required to strengthen MOH's regulatory capacities. The availability of good norms, standards
and accreditation systems are key elements of the reform, especially when attempting to
introduce the purchasing of a health service function, as well as contracting services with the
private sector. It also includes the study and action plan for an environmental assessment of
medical waste in health facilities. Specifically, the activity would produce: a study and action
plan on quality control and accreditation systems; norms and standards; technical assistance and
supervision; and training of personnel; and a study and action plan on medical waste
management in health facilities.
c) Developing management information systems. This activity includes technical assistance
required to design an MIS for the MOH central level. It would be designed according to the



Page 26
Project Tite: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
restructuring of the MOH. Specifically, the activity would deliver the following products: TOR;
and a system design and implementation action plan.
d) Designing a legal and regulatory framework for the reform. This activity includes technical
assistance and training needed to develop the norms, regulation, and legal instruments required
to implement the reform, including (but not limited to): Ley General de Salud, Ley Orgdnica del
MOH, Ley de Autonomia de los Servicios PuTblicos, Ley General de Recursos Humanos, Marco
Regulatorio de la Participaci6n Social, Codigo Sanitario y Leyes de Impacto Ambiental. Among
these, environmental regulatory aspects are crucial. Specifically, the activity would deliver the
following products: a study; norms, regulatory and legal instruments; and training of personnel.
e) Establishing a Corporate Agreement between the MOH and the CSS. This activity includes
technical assistance required to develop a corporate agreement between the MOH and CSS. The
agreement would integrate both institutions in key strategic areas, such as: National Health Plan:
health priorities, strategies & interventions; national investment plan; quality/accreditation
standards; integrated managementlinformation systems; and personnel deployment/training.
Specifically, this activity would produce: a study; and a corporate agreement.
ii) Developing the MOH's new Financing Role.
This sub-component includes technical assistance and training required to develop and
implement the MOH's new financing role. This sub-component would consolidate the
implementation of the cost-compensation system developed for the MOH and CSS under the
Bank's Economic Recovery Loan (ERL), as well as the feasibility study to introduce a health
insurance scheme for the uninsured. Specifically, the activity would deliver the following
products: training of personnel; and technical assistance and supervision for the implementation
of the cost-compensation system. It would also produce a study and action plan on a health
insurance scheme for the uninsured.
Project Component 3 - Preparation activities to scale up the reform to other Health
Regions (US$0.30 million, 5% of project costs)
This component would carry-out studies, pilots, technical assistance and training activities to
scale up the reform to other health regions. This component would facilitate the constitution of
health reform teams in other Health Regions together with the adaptations of the San Miguelito
pilot to local conditions. The execution of the component would be carried-out by the MOH's
Planning Directorate.
Project Component 4 - Project Management (US$0.50 million, 8% of project costs)
This component would finance administrative and operating costs of both the PCU and the
Health Region over a period of three years (1998-2001). It includes: maintenance of computing,
office and medical equipment, and vehicles procured under the project, consumable office
supplies and materials, and small quantities of printing services in the PCU and Directorate of
the Region of San Miguelito.



Page 27
Project Title: Heafth Sector Reform Pilot Project
Attachment to Annex 2:
Panama - Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Current Status Of Project Activities
Type of activity                 Implementation Progress4
Study    Implementation
Piloting of a new model for providing,
organizing, and financing health services in
the SMHR. The proposed project would
support the:
Design and implementation of the health
services purchasing function:
-creating purchasing function              X             X          Law that establishes the purchasing agency presented
to the Legislative Assembly
-designing payment mechanisms              X
-user ID                                   X             X          ID provided to population of 3 health centers
* Strengthening and integration of the Health
Services Region:
-new management techniques                  X            X          0
-MIS                                        X            X          0
* Strengthening and integration of the health
services provider network:
-new management techniques                  X            X          Law that establishes the San Miguelito Hospital
corporation presented to the Legislative Assembly
-implementing new PHC model                 X            X          Being implemented in 3 health centers
-rehabilitation and equipment                            X          0
*   Increased community participation                           X         LHC established. Family councils being established
*   Design and implementation of a social
marketing campaign                            X            X          0
*   Development and implementation of a
monitoring and evaluation system              X            X          Indicators agreed with the GOP
II. Institutional strengthening activities at the
central level (MOH and CSS ) to support the
implementation of the pilot, and
development of a strategic partnership
between the MOH and the CSS. The
proposed project would support the:
*   Strengthening of the MOH:
-reorganization plan for the MOH           X
-accreditation systems                     X
-MIS                                       X
-Corporate agreement MOH & CSS             X             X          General agreement already signed
*   Development of the MOH's new financing
role                                          X                       (support cost-compensation system under ERL)
III. Preparation activities to scale up the reform
to other Health Regions. The proposed
project would support the:
* Carrying out of studies, pilots, technical
assistance and training activities to scale up the
reform to other health regions                X
*   Project Management                                          X         PCU established
4 Only for subcomponents involving implementation under the project.



Page 28
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Annex 3
Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                         Local           Foreign       Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
1. Piloting the new health model in the San Miguelito    1,913.3          1,150.3      3,063.6
Health Region
2. Institutional strengthening of MOH and CSS at the       544.2          1,411.8      1,956.0
central level to support the implementation of the pilot
3. Preparation activities to scale up the reform to other  222.5             67.5        290.0
health regions.
4. Project Management                                      408.0             72.0       480.0
Total Baseline Cost                                      3,088.0          2,701.6      5,789.6
Physical Contingencies                                   33.1             26.1         59.2
Price Contingencies                                      99.4             84.2        183.6
Total Project Cost                                       3,220.5          2,811.9      6,032.4



Page 29
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Annex 4
Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
(Indicate currency, units, and base year)
Present Value of Flows                  Fiscal Impact
Economic         Financial
Analysis         Analysis5         Taxes             Subsidies
Benefits
Costs
Net Benefits:
IRR:
Summarv of Benefits and Costs: N/A
Main Assumptions:
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
5If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be
explained by taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g., "The value
of financial benefits is less than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."



Page 30
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Annex 4
Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
(Indicate currency, units, and base year)
Present Value of Flows                  Fiscal Impact
Economic         Financial
Analysis         Analysis6         Taxes             Subsidies
Project Costs
Summary of benefits and costs: N/A
Main Assumptions:
Cost-effectiveness indicators7
6 If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows iis large and cannot be
explained by taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g., "The
difference between fnancial and economic costs arises from price controls on the inputs."
7 These indicators should compare the project with a suitable comparator, e.g., unit project costs of
altemative project designs or international standards.



Page 31
Project T)ie: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Annex 5
Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities
Years Ending       19 through
(In Millions of Current )
19          19           19           19         19           20           Average Annual Growth
Actual                              Forecast
Income Statement Items
Unit Volume (000's)
Revenues
Operating Income
Net Income
Funds Statemnt Items
Internal Sources
Borrowings
Equity Investments
Total Sources
Capital Expenditures
Working Capital Increase
(Decrease)
Debt Service
Total Applications
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets
Less Current Liabilities
Net Fixed Assets
Total Assets
Debt
Equity
Total Liabilities and
Equity
s)ata for each year should be defned as Actual or Forecast.
Select key years after the start of normal operation of the project (e.g., when debt servicing burden is highest).



Page 32
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
19          19          19          19          19         20           AverageAnnualGrowth
Financial Ratios',"
Operating Income as a
% of Revenue
Net Income as a
% of Revenue
Return on Average Invested
Capital
Debt Service Coverage
Percent of Total Capital
Expendituresfinanced by
Internal Sources
Current Ratio
Debt as % of Total
Capitalization
Main assumptions:
10 When feasible, comparative data on other enterprises in the same industry should be shown.
Guidance on financial ratios for fnancial internediaries is given in OD8.30 Annex A and in an FSD note on performance indicators ("The Use of Sectoral and
Project Performance Indicators in Bank-Financed Sector Operations," March 1995).



Page 33
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Annex 5
Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending
(US$ thousands)
Implementation Period              Operational Period
1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Project Costs
Investment Costs        1,900   2,889    1,065     0       0        0       0       0
Recurrent Costs           55      66       57     57      57       57       57      57
Total                1,955   2,955    1,122     57      57       57      57      57
Financing Sources (% of
total project costs!
IBRD/IDA                70%     69%      67%      0%      0%       0%      0%      0%
Co-financiers
GOP
Central              23%      27%     29%      98%     98%      98%     98%     98%
Local                 1%      1%       2%      2%      2%       2%       2%      2%
User Fees/Beneficiaries  6%      3%      2%       0%      0%       0%      0%      0%
Total                100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%
Main assumptions:
The project's incremental recurrent costs correspond to costs related to the coordination of project
activities and maintenance of office equipment purchased with loan funds. These are negligible and
are expected to be easily covered by the central and regional health budgets. It is expected that any
incremental recurrent costs generated by the implementation of the pilot model in the San Miguelito
Region would be covered through increased efficiencies in the provision and utilization of health
services. These costs include incremental health personnel and costs of maintenance of infrastructure
and equipment.
Beneficiary participation in project financing refers to the payment of the health cards that would be
issued to the region's insured and uninsured population. During the social assessment process, future
beneficiaries indicated their willingness to pay for the cost of the health cards.
Given Panama's high level of expenditures compared to other countries in the region, one of the
main objectives of the pilot is to increase the efficiency of health expenditures through the signing of
management agreements linking the transfer of resources with performance and outcome indicators.



Page 34
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Annex 6
Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Table A: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ '000)
Procurement Methodology                       l
Expenditure                                                  Consult.
Category            ICB           NCB          Other       Services       Total
1. Works                               311.9 a       555.9 b        _           867.8
(155.9)      (277.9)      __      _      (433.8)
2. Goods                                                       X
(a) Equipment and      250.0                      585.6 c                     835.6
furniture                (250.0)                    (351.4)                     (601.4)
(b) Vehicles                                       42.5 d         _            42.5
(25.5 )   _                 (25.5)
3. Consultants                                                    3,243.6 e    3,243.6
_(2,307.1)    (2,307.1)
4. Training                                          842.9 f    _.               842.9
(842.9 )        _         ( 842.9)
5. Operating costs                                   200.0 g   _                200.0
( 89.3 )    __             (89.3)
Total:    250.0         311.9       2226.9        3,243.6      6,032.4
(250.0)      (155.9 )   (1,587.0 )   -(2,307.1)  (4,300.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
Footnotes:
a) Rehabilitation works of main building of MINSA.
b) Includes an aggregate of approximately US$506,000 for rehabilitation of approximately 8 health centers,
12 administrative offices and 70 health zones in the San Miguelito region, to be contracted out through
lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. To the extent possible, works would be combined
in contract packages of US$50,000 or more. Minor repairs in other health facilities, costing less than
US$3,000, up to an aggregate of US$50,000 would be contracted directly by the health center directors
from qualified local contractors. No International Competitive Bidding (C1B) for civil works is expected in
the project.



Page 35
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
c) Includes contracts for small purchases costing less than US$50,000, of computer equipment and medical
equipment for primary care centers, which may be purchased by international shopping, up to aggregate
amounts of US$100,000- and US$400,000, respectively. Other small purchases of office and medical
furniture and miscellaneous goods in the project may be procured through national shopping procedures, as
described in para. 3.5 of Guidelines, up to an aggregate of US$170,000.
d) Includes purchase of 2 vehicles to be procured through international shopping procedures from suppliers
offering technical and maintenance services in Panama, under contracts awarded as described in para. 3.6
of Procurement Guidelines..
e) Includes contracts for studies and technical assistance to be awarded by QCBS up to approximately
US$1,745,000 in aggregate. It also includes US$540,000 and US$255,000 for contracts to national and
international consultants, respectively, to be awarded on the basis of consultants' qualifications method to
firms, as described in para. 3.7 of Consultant Guidelines. An aggregate of US$816,500 also corresponds to
contracts for individual national and international consultants providing technical assistance, as described
in Chapter V of same Guidelines, up to an aggregate of US$540,000 and US$255,000, respectively.
Approximately 30% of contracts under the last two categories correspond to contracts of international and
national technical assistance to design courses and workshops and to provide training in the project.
Least-cost selection procedures would be used for assignments of preparation of technical specs and
supervision of minor works, and project audits, as described in para. 3.6 of Consultants Guidelines, up to
an aggregate of US$ 135,000. No sole source contracting of consultants services is expected in the project.
f)  Includes cost of training items such as rental of space and equipment, travel costs and per diem of
MINSA's staff providing training and of participants and/or recipients of training for which no procurement
methodology applies. Includes also 0.1 million not subject to procurement, which would finance cost of
travel, subsistence, and attendance, related to study tours, seminars or similar events held nationally and
internationally. Amount shown also includes an aggregate of US$0.1 million for printing services of
training materials to be procured through local shopping procedures, as described in para. 3.5 of
procurement Guidelines. No fees for training services contracts are included in this category.
g) Includes costs of maintenance of computing, office and medical equipment, and vehicles procured under
the project, and consumable office supplies and materials, and small quantities of printing services in the
PCU and Directorate of the Region of San Miguelito.
Policies and Procedures
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with Bank's guidelines on
procurement of goods, works and services --Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits (January 1995, as revised Jan./Aug. 1996, and Sept. 1997), and Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (July 1997). Due to the nature of the project
operation and the contract value of expected purchases, procurement procedures have been planned
compact and flexible to allow a satisfactory pace during project implementation.



Page 36
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(US$ '000)
Expenditure Category      Contract Value            Procurement            Contract(s) Subject to
l     (Threshold)      I      Methodology                   Review
1. Civil Works
Rehabilitation of            250-3,000         NCB                      Prior review: of one contract.
MINSA's building                                                        Post review: reminder
Rehabilitation and              <250           Lump-sum, fixed priced,   Prior review of two contracts,
minor repairs of small                         at least 3 quotations from   regardless of value.
health facilities                              qualified contractors.   Post review: reminder.
<3            Direct contracting       First contract regardless of
value.
Post review: reminder
2. Goods
Computing and medical           >250           ICB                      Prior review: All.
equipment for primary
care centers, and               <50            National shopping (para.   Prior review: first contract for
vehicles.                                      3.6) and international   furniture and vehicles,
shopping (para. 3.6) for    regardless of value.
vehicles
Office and medical             50 -250         NCB                      Prior review: First NCB
furniture and                                                           contract for furniture,
miscellaneous goods                                                     regardless of value.
manufactured locally,            <3            Direct contracting       None; post review only.
and printing services.
<50           National shopping (para.   Prior review: first contract
3.6)                     regardless of value
Post review: reminder
3. Consulants (reference to paras. in Consultants Guidelines, Jan. 1997.)
Consulting firms                >200           QCBS, Advertised (para.   Prior review: All results of
2.5)                     technical evaluation prior to
opening of financial proposals.
>100           QCBS                     Idem above.
<100           Consultants'             Prior review: Bi-annual
Qualifications (para. 3.7)   program of contracting and all
TORs and amendments to
contracts raising the contract
value above 15% of original.
Post review: Contracting
documents.
<50           Least Cost (para. 3.6)   First contract regardless of
(engineering, supervision   value.
and audits)              Post review: reminder
Individuals                     <50            Consultants' qualifications  Prior review:
(Chap.V)                 Bi-annual program of
contracting, and amendments to
contracts raising the contract
value above 15% of original.
Post review: Contracting
documents.



Page 37
Project Ttle: Heaflth Sector Reform Pilot Project
Review by the Bank
Prior review arrangements outlined above would result in an ex-ante review by the Bank of
approximately 74 % of all Bank-financed contracts by value. Concurrent quarterly audits would be
carried out during the life of the project to cover contracting procedures not subject to prior review,
and other financial transactions not involving procurement. Post review may also be carried out by
Bank supervision missions.
Documents
Goods and Works. MINSA has used successfully SBDs for works and goods in the on-going
project (3841-PA). However, MINSA has agreed to adopt the most recent version of Bank's SBDs
for ICB for goods (Standard Bidding Documents: Procurement of Goods), as published by the Bank.
For NCB: for goods MINSA would adopt a model document based on the Bank's SBDs; for works,
MINSA would use the most recent model bid document agreed with the Bank (under the Panama
SIF) for small works. Draft SBDs would be due for negotiations; implementation by
effectiveness.
Consultants' Contracts: At present in the on-going project, MINSA uses the latest versions of the
standard contract form (lump), and standard requests for proposals (SRP), including: (a) letter of
invitation (LOI), with price as selection criteria; and (b) information to Consultants (ITC); and
simplified forms of contracts for small contracts with firms and individuals. These documents would
be adopted by the implementation entities for use in the proposed project. MINSA has agreed to
replace the actual SRP now in use for the most recent version of the Bank's SRP, to be published in
Spanish no later than June 30, 1998.
MINSA's procurement capacity:
MINSA has had substantial experience in procurement with IBRD financing under the ongoing Rural
Health Project at the central level. Under a Japanese Grant, the San Miguelito Health Region
Directorate has also increased its knowledge of Bank procedures. However, technical assistance
would be required to strengthen even more the financial and procurement capacity of the PCU at
central level, and the Directorate at regional level to ensure conformity with Bank's standard policies
and procedures for financial management and auditing.
Special Conditions:
The most recent procurement assessment of Panama's contracting law provides for the inclusion of
special conditions to ensure quality of procurement arrangements during implementation. Special
conditions would be detailed in the legal agreement for the project.



Page 38
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Disbursements
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$)
Category of                   Amount                      % to be
Expenditure                                              financed
1. Works                       400,000                     50%/o
2. Goods                        500,000                    100%
foreign, 60%
of local
expenditures
3. Consultants                2,200,000                    75%
4. Training                     700,000                   100% of
expenditures,
excluding
taxes
5. Operating Costs              100,000                   50% of
expenditures
until the
aggregate
amount of
$50,000 has
been reached,
and 25%
thereafter
6. Unallocated                  400,000
Total                         4,300,000
Table C above defines de disbursement categories of the project. The proposed Bank loan would be
disbursed over a period of about three years to be completed by June 30, 2001. Disbursements
would not be made for works, goods and services that have been procured from ineligible sources or
that have not been procured according to the Bank's procurement and consultant guidelines.
Administration of Disbursements
The Government has agreed provide sufficient counterpart funds to implement the project through a
revolving account "fondo de trabajo" that would be administered by the MOH in accordance with
terms and conditions detailed in the Operations Manual. An initial deposit equivalent to three
months of counterpart funding requirements would be deposited as condition of effectiveness.



Page 39
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Transfers to the Regional Health Directorate of San Miguelito for implementation of the pilot
program  would be made in accordance with existing procedures for fund transfers.  The
documentation would be sent to the PCU who would be responsible for forwarding disbursement
requests to the Bank. The PCU would be responsible for making disbursements for infrastructure,
goods and consultant and other services procured by it.
Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)
* Contracts for civil work rehabilitation costing less than US$250,000, except first
contract awarded NCB.
* Contracts for computing and medical equipment costing less US$50,000.
* Contracts for goods costing less than US$250,000, except first contract for NCB
furniture.
* Contracts for printing services costing less than 50,000.
* Contracts for consultants costing less than US$100,000 for firms, and US$50,000 for
individual consultants.
- Expenditures related to training activities related to rental of space and equipment, travel
costs and per diem of MINSA's staff providing training and of participants and/or
recipients of training.
- Operating and maintenance costs financed under the project, including computing, office
and medical equipment, and vehicles, and printing services, and consumable supplies
and materials.
Special Account
A Special Account would be opened in the National Bank of Panama, with an authorized allocation
of US$450,000 which corresponds to approximately 10% of loan amount. The Special Account
would be replenished monthly at the Borrower's request, but no less frequently than every three
months, or whenever one-third of the authorized amount has been withdrawn, whichever comes first.
Replenishment applications would be accompanied by reconciled bank statements reflecting
transactions made from the account and claimed in the respective applications.
Closing Date: June 30, 2001.



Page 40
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Annex 7
Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
LIL stage                                        75,000                49,600
Previous to LIL stage                                                  76,735
B. Project Schedule                             Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      6 months              7 months
First Bank mission (identification)             08/18/97               08/18/97
Appraisal mission departure                     02/25/98               04/13/98
Negotiations                                    02/25/98               04/13/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   06/30/98               06/30/98
Prepared by MOH and CSS: Alfredo Molto; Hernan Luque; Gloriela Gordon; Pedro Contreras; Luis
Garrido; Reynaldo Holder; Cosme Trujillo, Moises Cespedes, Ricardo Batista, Mayanin Rodriguez,
Virginia Mulgrave, Yolila de Espinosa, Edisa Morales, Jose Alonso and Nor-ma Astudillo.
WHO/PAHO also contributed to project preparation: Lilian Reneau-Vernon,; Gina Watson; Jose
Ruales (Consultant); and Octavi Quintana (Consultant).
Preparation assistance: Japanese Trust Funds: TF029601 & TF025499
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Heman Montenegro                          Task Manager, Public Health Specialist
Fiona Garin                               Health Specialist
Mirta Sanchez                            Task Assistant
Michelle Cerrone                          Task Assistant
Maria Elena Anderson                      Operations Specialist
Rosita Estrada                           Procurement Specialist
Livio Pino                               Financial Management Specialist
Roberto Laver                            Lawyer
Genaro Alarcon                           Lawyer
Fernando Vio                             Consultant, Public Health Specialist
James Cercone                            Consultant, Health Economist
Michael Bourke                            Consultant, MIS Specialist
Hernan Fuenzalida                        Consultant, Lawyer
Sergio Jelinek                           Consultant, Team Technologies
Peer Reviewers:
Eva Jarawan                               Senior Health Specialist
Olusoji Adeyi                            Health Specialist



Page 41
Project ritle: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Annex 8
Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. MOH-CSS. Plan de Implementaci6n del Proyecto de Reforma del Sector Salud, Enero 1998.
B. Bank Staff and Consultants Assessments
2. Anderson, Maria Elena. Health Sector Reform Project: Institutional Assessment, November 1997.
3. Antadillas, Alvaro. Diseno del Plan de Contingencia Para la Racionalizaci6n de la Provisi6n de
Servicios en la Regi6n de Salud de San Miguelito, June 1997.
4. Banco Mundial. Segundo Taller de Alternativas de Modelos de Provisi6n, Gestion y
Financiamiento de Servicios de Saludpara la Regi6n de San Miguelito (Borrador del Plan de
Implementaci6rn del Nuevo Modelo), November 1996.
5. Banco Mundial. Panama: Alternativas en la Organizaci6n, Financiamiento y Prestaci6n de
Servicios en San Miguelito (Borradorpara Discusi6n), June 1996.
6. Bourke, Michael. Assessment of the State of Information Systems, October 1997.
7. Castro, R6mulo. Advertising Materials, Video and Tape for Marketing the Health Sector Reform,
October 1997.
8. CELA-International Health Partnership. Mapa de Participaci6n Social, Regi6n de Salud de San
Miguelito, October 1997.
9. Fuenzalida, Hernan. Informe de Consultoria Sobre Aspectos Juridicos y Regulatorios, October
1997.
10. International Health Partnership. Desarrollo de Modelos e Instrumentos Para la Gesti6n
Descentralizada de la Regi6n Integrada de Salud de San Miguelito-Reputblica de Panama, Informe
Final, January 1998. It includes 9 independent reports:
I. Estructura Organizativa y Funcional Para el Nuevo Modelo de Gestion de la Regi6n de
San Miguelito
II. Estrategia Local de Salud en la Regi6n de Salud de San Miguelito
III. Un Modelo de Gesti6n Integrada de la Red de Atenci6n Primaria
IV. Mecanismos de Financiamiento, Contrataci6n e Incentivos
V. Sistemas de Gestion Presupuestario y Administrativos
VI. Modelo Para la Gestion de Calidad en la Regi6n de San Miguelito
VII. Mapa de Participacion Social y Recomendaciones Para su Fortalecimiento
VIII. Desarrollo del Sistema de Informaci6n Regional
LX7. Marco Metodol6gico Para la Evaluaci6n del Nuevo Modelo de Gesti6n
11. Pino, Livio. Health Sector Reform Project: Financial Management Assessment, January 1998.
12. Sanjur, Olmedo, untitled: Consulta Sobre Aspectos Juridicos Relacionados con la
Administraci6n del Hospital San Miguel Arcdngel de San Miguelito, November 1997.
13. Traa-Valarezo, X., Estudio de Percepciones de Usuarios de Servicios de Salud Putblicos y
Privados y Expectativas con Respecto al Hospital San Miguelito, Banco Mundial, October 1996. *It
includes two videos.
14. Vio, Fernando, Primary Health Care Model in San Miguelito, August 1997.
15. World Bank, Memorandum of the President of the International Bankfor Reconstruction and
Development to the Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group
for the Republic of Panama, December 1994.



Page 42
Project Tile: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
16. World Bank, Panama: A Dual Economy in Transition, July 1995.
C. Other
17. CSS, Ley Organica de la Caja de Seguro Social y Reglamentos que la Complementan,
December 1991.
18. CSS, Modernizacion de la Caja de Seguro Social - Una Respuesta Hacia el 2000, 1995.
19. IDB, Panama: Programa de Rehabilitaci6n de Servicios de Salud - Propuesta de Prestamo,
November 1993.
20. MOH, La Reformay Modernizaci6n del Sistema Nacional de Saludde Panamd - Avances en el
Proceso, 1997.
21. MOH, Consideraciones sobre la Modernizaci6nyReforma del Sector Salud en Panamd, July
1995.
22. MOH-CSS, Propuesta de Modelo de Atenci6n de Salud Familiar, Comunitario y Ecol6gico,
March 1997.
23. MOH, Nuevo Modelo de Gesti6n Hospital San Miguelito, October 1996.
24. MIPPE, El Gasto Pz:blico Social en Panamd (Tendencias y Prioridades), April 1997.
*Including electronic files.



Page 43
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Panama
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Original Amount in USS Millions
Loan or    Fiscal
Project ID    Credit No.   Year           Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD       IDA       Cancellations     Undisbursed
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 36
Active Loans
PA-PE-7844     3686A       1994  GOVT OF PANAMA                ROADS REHABILITATION           60.00        0.00            0.00         32.58
PA-PE-7846     3841A       1995  GOVERNMENT                    RURAL HEALTH                   25.00        0.00            0.00         20.07
PA-PE-7832     39940       1996  GOVERNMENT OF PANAMA  EDUCATION SCTR                         35.00        0.00            0.00         30.82
PA-PE-7837     41910       1997  REPUBLIC OF PANAMA            FES                            28.00        0.00            0.00         28.00
PA-PE-7847     41580       1997  REPUBLIC OF PANAMA            RURAL POV & NAT RES            22.50        0.00            0.00         22.50
Total                                                                                         170.50       0.00            0.00         133.97
Active Lan           Closed LoansTt
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                       4.18                687.98                692.16
of which has been repaid:                          0.00                483.40               483.40
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                     170.50                204.58                342.73
Amount sold          :                                0.00                  9.21                  9.21
Of which repaid     :                               0.00                  9.21                  9.21
Total Undisbursed     :                             133.97                  0.00                133.97
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S =
satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology
(SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Dec-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                                   Disbursed
IFC                                         IFC
FY Approval                Company            Loan       Equity     Quasi     Partic      Loan       Equity     Quasi      Partic
1993                       Continental-PAN              0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00
1995                       Manzanillo                  22.13      0.00       0.00      29.67       22.13       0.00      0.00       29.67
Total Portfolio:                         22.13      0.00       0.00       29.67      22.13       0.00      0.00       29.67
Approvals Pending Commitment
Lm   E               Q          Phrtic
1997                       BANCO GENERAL              25.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                25.00       0.00      0.00        0.00



Page 44
Project Title: Health Sector Reformf  Pilot Project
Annex 10
Panama at a glance
Latin Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           America  middle-
Panama   & Carib.  Income       Oevalopment dilamond'
Populaton mid-1996 (milions)                          2.7       485    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                            3,040     3,710    1.750                Life expectancy
GNP 1998 (bil)ons USS)                                 8.1     1.799    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990.96 
Populaton (96)                                         1.7        1.7      1.4     G                                G
Laborforce (X)                                         2.4       2.3       1.8     GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                            capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount Index (X of population)
Urban population (X of total popufabon)                 55        74       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        73        69       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live biiths)                23        37       41               Access to safe water
Child malnutriTon (96 of children under 5)               7                  ..
Access to safe water (X of populaflon)                  82        80       78
Illiteracy (X of populabon age 15+)                      9        13
Gross primary enrollment (X of school-age populaabon)  106       110      104                Panama
Male                                                  ..        ..      105                Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                ..        ..    101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995     1996
EconomTc ralloaf
GDP (biNons US$)                              1.8      4.9       7.9      8.2
Gross dornesUc investment/GDP                   ..      ..      25.1      23.6
Exports of goods and services/GDP               ..      ..      37.8     37.8              Openness of economy
Gross domestc savings/GDP                   100.0       ..      24.1      23.8
Gross national savingslGDP                     ..       ..      21.7     22.0
Current account balancelGDP                     ..      ..       -3.4     -1.8
Interest payments/GDP                         2.2      8.1        5.0      2.4     Savings                     Investment
Total debUGDP                                50.5     96.2       90.8     76.7
Total debt servicalexports                     ..       ..       24.5     15.0
Pnesent value of debtGDP                       ..       ..    103.6
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..    206.0                            Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-98    1995       1996  199745
(average annual growth)                                                                      Panama
GDP                                  5.3      3.0      1.8        2.5      4.8                Lower-midda-income group
GNP per capita                       2.5      0.6     -1.4        1.8      4.7
Exports of goods and services         ..      3.5     -2.7        4.2      4.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995     1996
(6 of GDP)                                                                         Growth rati of output and Investnmt (%N
Agriculture                                    ..       ..       8.3       8.2     400.
Industry                                       ..        .      14.1      13.5     so\
Manufacturing                                 ..       .        9.9      9.7     200 -
Services                                        ..      ..      77.6     78.3      100
Private consumpUon                               ..             60.8    62.1       -       Gs l    Si   52   93   94   96    9
General government consumpton                           ..      15.1      14.1
Imports of goods and services                  ..       ..      38.8     37.6                     GDi    0-GOP
197545  198U-96       1995     1996
(average annual grwth)                                                             GIOwth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agricuiture                                    ..      2.9       3.1       1.1    as
Industry                                       ..      9.5        1.3     -1.6    30a
Manufacturing                                ..      6.8        0.2      0.7     25
Services                                        ..     3.4       1.6      3.8    20
10
Private consumption                            ..      4.7      -4.2      6.0      10
General government consumption                 ..    -1.9         4.6      1.6 o
Gross domesUc investrnent                      ..    21.0        18.2    -3.5      --    91   a2 s     li so    Q
Imports of goods and services                  ..      8.1       5.2       1.0                   Exports       impors
Gross natlonal product                        4.8      2.5        0.4      3.3
Nole: 1998 data are prelln'inary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specifed.
The diamonds show four key indicators In the country trn bold) compared with its Income-nroup average. If data are missing. the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 45
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Panama
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995     1996
Domestic prices                                                                     laion J%)
(% change)
Consumer prices                               5.9        .98.2 2.3s
4
Implicit GDP deflator                        10.2      2.5        0.5      1.7    34
Government finance                                                                 2
(% of GDP)                                                                         0
Current revenue                                          -       29.1     27.6            91   92    93   94   9s    9s
Current budget balance                                   -        3.5      4.2                -GDP Wef.  C-O-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                           0.2      0.4
TRADE
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Export and Import levels (mill US$)
Total exports (fob)                                      -       743      761      2si0e
Bananas                                                         190      184
Sugar                                                            is.. 1   23      2,D
Manufactures                                  18 2       06 1i
Total Imports (edt)                             .        ..     1,980    2,076
Food                                          .         ..      238   255AiY                                       M
Fuel and energy                                .        .       3117     352       toe
Capital goods                                 .         ..      604      624        0                               F_______________
Exportprice index (1987=100)                                     116       136           90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import pdce index (1987=100)                                     164       165                  ri E*orts    a Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                       ..      ..        71        82      =                      U  O
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975  1985  1995  1996  _-
(millions USS)                                                                     Current account balance to GOP ratio %)
Exports of goods and services                                   2,090    3,117
Imports of goods and services                                   3,071    3,103     s
Resource balance                                                 -81        14     4        _
Net Factor income                                                -343     -300     2
Net current transfers                                            '154      153
Current account balance,                              9                                     91  92   93   9    96   9
before official capital transfers                              -269     -132    -2                             Li
Financing items (net)                                            484      382      4
Changes in net reserves                                          -215     -250    4-
Memo:.
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)            34       98       786    1.038
Conversion rate (localUSS)                    1.0      1.0        1.0      1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1996 (rmIl US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          932    4.759      7,180    6.320
IBRD                                         e5      310       175      199                        A   C
IDA                                           0        0         0        0              G        199 109  D
Total debt service                             73      469       734      467              1513               546
IBRD                                          5       43        58       44                                     E
IDA                                           0        0         0        0                                    a54
Composition of net resource flows
Oflicial graets                              11       26      158.3    157.6
Official creditors                           70       58        -69     -190
Private creditors                           143        6        -11      82
Foreign direct Investment                     8       59       124      275
Portfolb equlty                               0        0        18        0                        F
World Bank program
Commitments                                  24       51        25       65      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                28       26         3       69      8 - IDA    D - Other mitilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          1       21        43       31      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                    25        6        -40      37
Interest payments                             4       23        15       12
Net transfers                               21       -17       -55       25
Development Economics                                                                                                8/28/97



Page 46
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Annex 11
Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Health Policy Letter
(Translation into Spanish)
Mrs. Ana Maria Arriagada
Sector Leader
Human Development
Central American Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
World Bank
Dear Madam:
We are pleased to send you the nation's health policy letter so as to highlight development of socio-
political strategies for the reduction of poverty in Panama and, in particular, the development of
public policy for the health care sector.
As you know, the government has been preparing a World Bank loan project aimed at stimulating the
process of reform in the health care sector, mainly through modernization of the Ministry of Health
services network and also that of the Social Security Institute.
This project, together with certain long and short term strategies, will help the nation to achieve
greater advantage from its health expenditures, as well as to improve quality and equality of health
services for insured and uninsured individuals.
From a more global perspective, the project is a means of contributing to the fulfillment of social
development policies in an economically effective manner for the five years period from 1994 to
1999, as proposed by the government.
I. THE SOCIOECONOMIC SITUATION
BACKGROUND
1. The Panamanian economy is characterized by strong and dynamic service sector development
linked to the international marketplace, which generates approximately 60 percent of the nation's
Gross Domestic Product (GDP). This sector has traditionally operated in the almost total absence of
restrictive regulations. On the other hand, the agricultural and industrial sectors, that were heavily
protected from international competition for decades, are now achieving slow growth and they
contribute 8.1 percent and 9.8 percent of GDP respectively.
2. Development policies applied in Panama since World War II, are based on an import substitution
program and, on the other hand, the government's monopolistic intervention in providing all kinds of
public services, as well as the production of goods. High protectionist barriers were introduced,
causing increasing levels of inefficiency in the economy, incorrect distribution of resources, high
prices, low quality of services, as well as deficient infrastructure.



Page 47
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Projec
3. The development pattern which was followed for decades caused serious socioeconomic
problems: a decrease in the GDP rate, high poverty levels, high unemployment rates, improper
income distribution, low productivity, high public debt, high cost of living, lack of economic
competitiveness and a low capacity for government savings. Basic social services coverage appears
to be acceptable at a national level, but there are many signs of wide inequity at the provincial and
group levels. Social expenditures are handled ineffectively and the quality of services is low.
4. In 1990-1994, after the invasion, the economy recovered at an average annual rate of 6.4 percent,
with a downward trend starting in 1992, and reaching its low level at 1.8 percent, in 1995. In 1996,
GDP rebounded to 2.4 percent and the 1997 growth rate is estimated at 4.4 percent, as a result of the
structural reform program now in place.
5. The unemployment rate has been above 10 percent since 1984 and, in June 1997, national
unemployment stood at 13.1, with a level of 15.4 percent in the metropolitan area. The employment
market is highly heterogeneous, with 45.1 percent of the population participating in the informal
market.
IL. PUBLIC POLICIES FOR THE PERIOD 1994-1999
6. The current administration, in place since September of 1994, spelled out its policies in a
document called "Public Policies for Comprehensive Development: Social Development with
Economic Efficiency", where objectives and instruments are presented.
6.1. General objectives are: to substantially reduce poverty and extreme poverty before the end of
the government's five year term and to promote broad-based and sustainable economic growth
through increased efficiency and productivity. Likewise, some specific objectives are defined, which
can be summarized as follows:
6.2. In economic-fiscal area: to maintain the current monetary system: to improve levels of
competitiveness and productivity in the economy; to promote the integration of the agricultural
sector into the international market. In the governmental area: to create a public sector financial
plan for the medium term, to generate savings and to restructure the flow of expenses; to draw up a
plan to modernize public institutions and to grant concessions for certain basic infrastructure
projects.
6.3. In social area: to promote the evolution of educational systems; to handle public social
expenditure with increasing efficiency; to guarantee that the most needy segment of the population
has access to basic social services; to increase agricultural sector productivity, employment, and
incomes; to develop an investment program aimed at infrastructure improvement and
implementation of social programs focusing on the poorest sectors.
III. POLITICAL-ECONOMIC ACTIONS TAKEN IN 1994-1997.l2
7. In order to promote greater production efficiency and to improve the allocation of resources, the
government has used instruments including their commercial, fiscal, pricing, and labor policies. The
12 Republic of Panama. Social Development with Economic EMciency 1997-1999. OMcial Gazette No.
23,393, 7 October 1997.



Page 48
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
law of universal tax incentives was approved in 1995 and all import fees were eliminated; in 1997,
Panama became a member of the International Trade Organization; price controls were eliminated;
the law defending competition was approved and the Committee for Free Competition and Consumer
Affairs was created. Since 1995, tariffs were slowly lowered and starting on January 1998, five tariff
levels went into force: 0 percent, 3 percent, 5 percent, 10 percent and 1 5 percent, with some
exceptions.
8. In order to introduce competition and to improve efficiency in the delivery of public services, to
promote private investment, and generate employment, a privatization and concessions program was
started: 49 percent of stock corresponding to the National Institute of Telecommunications was sold.
The concession for B-Band cellular phones was granted and this was opened up to competition. In
the field of power and potable water service, progress was made in restructuring two public
companies in order to privatize them and to offer them in concession. Likewise, it is now possible
for private companies to generate their own energy and sell it. Parallel to this, the Public Service
Regulating Entity was created. With regards to sea ports, there were concessions granted for cargo
terminal ports in the Panama Canal and to build and operate three new container ports. To add and
take advantage of areas reverted from the old Canal Zone, the General Plan for the Use of Areas and
Reverted Goods was approved and privatization and concession of capital and land have started.
9. In the labor field, current regulation was modified to give greater flexibility to a series of labor
contract regulations which proved to be expensive and didn't lend themselves to the efficient use of
labor within companies. This new law removes the administration of several labor regulations from
the Labor Ministry and turned this over to special courts, thus reducing the Government's direct
intervention.
10. Within the framework of fiscal policy, the fiscal deficit has been held at a low level relative to
GDP. The public investment has been strongly implemented and expenditures has been redirected
toward the social area. Debt to commercial banks was restructured and some actions were taken to
reduce debt. A new system offering governmental, financial and budget Information has been
implemented in addition to the National System for Public Investment which is in the process of
being established, as well as the Administrative Career Law.
IV. SOCIO-POLITICAL ACTIONS: 1994-1997
12.1 During the three year period 1994-1996, social expenditures grew at an average annual rate of
13.2 percent, leading to an average of 18.6 percent for the three years, and 20.3 percent for 1996,
relative to GDP, representing 44 percent of non-financial public expenditure.
13. In 1997, Panama's government, assisted by the World Bank, IDB, and PNUD carried out a
national survey on living standards. Among the purposes of this survey was to reliably determine
levels of poverty and their causes; evaluate social policy; develop a means of better focusing social
expenditures, and developing a strategy for reducing poverty through its programns and action plans.
14. The social policy which was adopted is generally based on these principles:
14.1 To increase investment in people through actions which guarantee that the entire population has
access to a quality education.



Page 49
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
14.2. To improve health and nutritional attention, strengthening primary health care programs and
improving the quality of health services offered to the great majority of the population. To improve
the efficiency of services, introducing changes in the models of organization, management, and
financing and separating the functions of agents participating in the health care system.
14.3. To increase the access that the most needy members of society have to housing and drinking
water, as well as basic sanitation services, by favoring the participation of private sector in the public
housing market, as well as the active participation of beneficiaries.
14.4. To increase the productivity of those in poverty by means of training, technical assistance and
to provide assistance through credits for their productive activities; through the support of programs
to support the projects of small agricultural producers, as well as urban and rural micro-enterprises.
14.5. To promote the workers training, involving the participation of private sector training centers
and even company training facilities to achieve greater efficiency and a sense of ownership with
regards to the development of skills required by the market.
14.6. To promote social integration through actions aimed at reducing poverty; to promote private
involvement in programs traditionally carried out by the government, in order to achieve better
distribution of decision making and decentralization of responsibilities and resources; strengthening
regional and local governments; implementing programs specifically aimed at benefiting the
indigenous population and vulnerable groups; promotion of equal opportunity among the genders
and the equality of men and women.
V. THE SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM IN EFFECT
15. In the education sector, from 1996 through 2003, the Ministry of Education, supported by the
World Bank and Inter-american Development Bank (IDB), will invest 147.2 million Balboas to
improve the quality of education at all levels and to improve the access that poor people have to it.
This includes: reforming study plans, preparing new teaching materials, acquiring textbooks,
training teachers, creating new educational testing instruments, expanding pre-school education
coverage in the most needy districts in the country. It also involves providing elementary schools in
these locations with reading books, texts, and training materials for all their students, granting
scholarships for poor students, repairing and replacing elementary classrooms and equipping
laboratories and workshops in technical and professional schools. Along with this, Law 28 of 1997,
which decentralizes the administration and resources of the educational system will be implemented,
giving teachers, parents, and communities greater involvement in educational projects, while
investing in modernizing and improving the operational effectiveness of educational systems.
16. In terms of the health care sector, the Ministry of Health, during the period 1994-2000, with
support of the IDB and bilateral agencies, has invested about 133.5 million Balboas for the
rehabilitation, construction and equipping of hospitals and health centers so as to improve services
rendered by the health care network. It has also started a parallel reform process for the sector by
reinforcing the health care model, reorganizing preventive programs and offering training for more
than 4,000 officials in the areas of public health and management, as well as in the modernization of
health services.
17. In the area of nutrition and primary health care, with the support of the World Bank, a nutritional
program has been implemented which is aimed at children under five years of age and pregnant or



Page 50
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
lactating women diagnosed with malnutrition, in the 28 most needy districts of the country. This is
complemented by a program for supplying drinking water to 1000 rural communities, representing
an investment of 41.7 million Balboas. On the other hand, the Ministry of Education is providing a
daily food ration (milk, milk and cookies, or cream and cookies) for all students in official pre-
schools and basic schools, at an expense of 40.0 million Balboas for the period 1995-1999.
18. In the drinking water and sanitation sector, the reform process is already underway, with help
from IDB. It is intended to increase the participation of the private sector in managing and financing
future investments so as to achieve efficiency, quality, and sustainability of service. Simultaneously,
the Institute of Aqueducts and Sewerage Systems (IDAAN for its Spanish acronym) will invest in
urgent repairs in order to reduce water which is not accounted for, to handle demand, to improve the
quality of service, and to distribute enough drinking water for Metropolitan Panama City. The
scheduled investments amount to 65.0 million Balboas for the period 1996-2000.
19. Social Program Housing. With support from the IDB, there is a program to improve the
efficiency of public investment in the housing sector and to expand the competitive roll of the private
sector in the production and financing of housing. By means of this program there are subsidies and
financing mechanisms in addition to a private bank intended to allow more than 30,000 low income
families to improve their dwelling conditions. The cost of the program is up to 69.9 million Balboas
for the period 1996-1999.
20. Modernization of training and employment system, based on market requirements. The IDB is
offering support to start a project in this area which will directly benefit 2,000 needy youngsters. It
will improve competitiveness of 300 small companies, and the productivity of at least 75 percent of
their workers. In addition, an institutional framework will be established to define future training
policies and to direct investments toward that area. The planned investment is 5.4 million Balboas
for the period 1997-2000.
21. Social Investment and Local Development Program. By means of the Social Investment
Institute (FES, for its Spanish acronym) and the support of the World Bank, IDB and FIDA, as well
as the International Fund of Agricultural Development, 91.5 million Balboas will be invested in
relieving poverty during the period 1995-2000. This will be achieved through the construction of
small social and economic infrastructure projects. Services will also be provided for disadvantaged
members of the population through NGOs, as well as civil and community organizations, and there
will be credit programs offered through qualified financial intermediaries. This program offers
communities basic social services while training and involving them in the management and
maintenance of the projects. On the other hand, at the provincial and local government levels, and
involving organized community participation, a program which started in 1995 is being carried out
with fixed annual financing of 22.4 million Balboas. This program is aimed at financing small
economical and social infrastructure projects for housing, as well as community level production
programs. The programmed investment for 1995-1999 is 112.0 million Balboas.
22. Sustainable Rural Development. There are several projects being carried out in this sector.
These being supported by the World Bank, FIDA, IDB and bilateral cooperation, with a cost of 91.0
million Balboas for the period 1994-2003. These projects include financing for promoting and
training community organizations in order to transfer knowledge which increases their self-
management, training and technical assistance capabilities in order to develop income generating
activities, social reforestation, construction of rural access roads, mini-irrigation projects, small
marketing projects, granting of property titles, introduction of sustainable agricultural techniques,



Page 51
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
and strengthening of women's production organizations. These projects will benefit at least 27,250
families, 7,000 of which are indigenous. In addition, 46,000 property titles will be granted and
recorded in the province of Veraguas.
VI. THE NATIONAL HEALTH SYSTEM
BACKGROUND
23. The National Health System is the network of direct and indirect, public or private services
offered by society to promote and preserve the well-being of the population and the environment and
to avoid morbidity of the population and preserve the natural environment. The health System
consists of individuals and jurisdictions, public and private entities, governmental and non-
governmental organizations, as well as Panamanians or foreigners providing institutional or
community health services. It is also involved in the coordination and establishment of mechanisms
needed for planning, programming, executing and controlling health services. It's objective is to
develop actions to promote health, to prevent disease, to care for and restore the health of
individuals, families and communities, and to reduce any type of health related inequalities,
including those involving access to services.
24. Panama's public health care sector is composed of institutions from the Ministry of Health,
Social Security Institute, IDAAN, and Metropolitan Directorate of Hygiene, as well as other
municipal and community institutions.
25. Problems in the National Health System
25.1. Lack of integration in implementing health programs and duplication of services delivered by
the Ministry of Health and Social Security Institute.
25.2. Insufficient management capability, non-compliance with ethical standards of administration
and inadequate development of the decentralized managerial model for public health and
environmental services.
25.3. Limited promotion and prevention activity in the health care sector, a persistent healing focus
in relation to the environment and in health services for the population.
25.4. Limited development of an information system for surveillance of people and the environment.
25.5. Not enough active participation and feedback from the community in the management,
performance, and evaluation of health services.
25.6. Deterioration of installed capacity in the health services network, along with inadequate
coverage and quantitative-qualitative service focus.
25.7. Inadequate cooperation in teaching-assistance among institutions rendering services and
involved in training personnel.
25.8. Insufficient health research in the process of making policy decisions.



Page 52
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
25.9. Insufficient development of health education with resulting lack of participation of user in
requesting and executing public health and environmental actions.
26.6. Health System Objectives
27. The political constitution of the Republic of Panama establishes that on,e of the State's basic
duties is to safeguard the health of the population. The Ministry of Health has defined its purpose as
contributing to substantially improving the welfare and quality of life among the Panamanian
population, specifically focusing the health system at achieving the following objectives for the
period 1998-2000:
27.1. To increase the social promotion of health issues so as to improve the quality of life among
Panamanian population.
27.2. To improve the quality of the environment for the Panamanian population with equality,
efficiency, and effectiveness.
27.3. To increase preventive actions linked to major health problems among the population.
27.4. To undertake the decentralization of the public health system.
27.5. To develop and consolidate those instruments involved in making more effective the
implementation of health services.
27.6. Modernization of administrative procedures.
27.7. To develop and to improve the management of environmental well-being and public health.
27.8. To improve equality, effectiveness, quality, and efficiency of public services aimed at caring
for the population.
27.9. To fully develop human resources.
28. Public health policies
29. During 1994-1995, the Ministry of Health reviewed and revised public policies in accordance
with the analysis of national priorities for economic and social development. The main health
policies convey those guidelines which focus the National Health System on the task of achieving
health for all Panamanians.
29.1. Promoting Health as an aspect of development, that is, to integrate ithe concept of health into
all areas of action aimed at the nation's overall development: economic, social, political, cultural and
ecological. The fight against poverty implies the promotion of human health and, at the same time, it
is a determining factor in advancing all areas of the nation's development. The production of any
kind of goods and services (economic, political, social, cultural) must not pose risks to public health
and the environment, but to favor improved conditions and the quality of human life.
29.2. Expanding Health: The essential elements of this policy are included in the bio-psycho-social
concept of all persons, plus integrating promotional, preventive, and healing intervention as well as
social participation. This is through the development of social practices which favor exercising the
universal human right to health and the duty of the population to preserve their own health.
29.3. Development of the Health Rectory System by strengthening the role of the Ministry of
Health. The Rectory System implies the development of political and strategic leadership in the
health care sector; in developing systems for vigilance against epidemics; in research,
scientific/technical development and sanitation information; in the human resources which make up
the National Health System; in regulating systems for public health and the environment and those



Page 53
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
services offered by the system; and the administrative-management and financial system for National
Health System.
29.4. Strengthening the Service Network of National Health System: aimed at achieving more
equality in access to those services among the population; greater efficiency in terms of human,
technical, administrative and financial resources; optimum effectiveness as evidenced by an increase
in positive health indicators; and more quality expressed in terns of user satisfaction or among those
who require the services, as well as among the professionals offering them.
29.5. Development of mechanisms which allow for financial sustainability of the National Health
System: An ongoing search for cost-effective intervention and techno-financial coordination/
communication between public and private institutions, allowing for the financial sustainability of
the National Health System.
29.6. Extended overall health service coverage: To design and carry out actions which extend
coverage of overall direct and indirect health services to the entire population, with equality and
quality.
29.7. To protect health financing for the most vulnerable groups: focusing health care expenditures
on population groups facing elevated risk due to their socioeconomic condition or disability, and the
design of a public health insurance scheme.
30. Action Areas for the National Health System
31. The primary action areas for National Health System are concentrated in:
31.1. The Public Health field, providing services to promote health by promoting and protecting the
health of people and the environment; at the societal, community, family, and individual levels.
Thus, public health activities focusing on public health and the preservation of human life include:
surveillance of factors in health protection and risk; control of public health and environmental
indicators; promotion and protection of the health of individuals and the environment in which they
live (healthy lifestyles); regulation and normalization of actions related to sanitation in all areas of
human ecology (water quality, drugs and medicines, food, services and infrastructure, housing,
workplaces, and places of entertainment); research and development; scientific, technical and
informational material; human resources; financial resources; as well as public and environmental
services.
31.2. The field providing medical attention: the development of activities leading to reestablishing
health and preserve the environment affected by diseases throughout their natural history. Action
related to sanitation is aimed at guaranteeing public access to services and to stimulate endowment
services and control environmental factors affecting health. In order to guarantee access to those
services offered, the system must be able to recognize, identify, and face up to difficulties and
problems of a geographical, cultural, financial, and human (ethical) nature.
VII. HEALTH SYSTEM STRATEGIES
32. The Ministry of Health, in order to accomplish public policies and stated objectives, focuses on
carrying out three strategies considered to be priorities in the evolution of public health.



Page 54
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
32.1. Development of the health system rectory
32.2. Development of the health care decentralization process
32.3. Modernization of public health services
33. The three of them are aimed at achieving the health mission, which is contributing to the
sustainable human development of the Panamanian population as the focal point and subject of
action, by means of increasing levels of public welfare and quality of life as measured through
positive public health and environment indicators and generally reflected in good health habits.
34. National Health System Rectory
34.1. In order to modify the means of providing and monitoring health services, the development of
the National Health System rectory is considered to be a high priority strategy for reform. It must
aim at achieving the mission and vision of health, governed by principles of universality, equality,
integrity, responsibility, and involving social, intersectorial, ethical, and unification under the
leadership of the Ministry of Health.
34.2. The operation of the Health Rectory System involves all public and private organizations
involved in health care working within a framework and with their actions being guided by those
policies, plans, programs and standards proclaimed by the Ministry of Health. They are subject to
processes of monitoring, supervision, and evaluation directed by the rectory of the sector in the
pursuit of efficiency and quality in the nation's health care services.
34.3. Regulation and coordination of the Health System will be the responsibility of the Ministry of
Health, with the corresponding rectorial function in the formulation of policies and intervention
strategies, the promotion of plans and norms, ensuring their control and supervision, as well as the
development of services and programs.
35. Decentralization
35.1. To develop health care decentralization, as another of the high priority strategies in the process
of health reform and modernization, with a fundamental focus which should be on implementing a
primary care strategy, seeking equality in health care, giving top priority to overlooked sectors of
society, developing and improving the operational and managerial capacity of health services at the
local level for efficient and effective performance. In order to exercise public health functions and
provide services, the Public Health System is organized into three levels, categorized by complexity
population area: the national level, the regional level, and the local level.
36. Modernization of public health services
36.1. The guidelines for improving the efficiency and quality of services focus on proposals for the
organizational and functional reorientation of services and the introduction of new ways of taking
action in order to provide and finance health care, as well as on systematic activities related to the
process of treating illness. The strategic planning process must be consolidated in the area of
sanitation (national, regional, district and territory) through activities aiimed at extending and
strengthening procedures for reorganizing services which go to make up a more efficient network of
care services, structured by levels of complexity.



Page 55
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
36.2. One of the key points in achieving optimization and rationalization of services is the functional
integration of MINSA-CSS, that is, linking different levels of complexity and coordination between
different areas with regards to public health care. This coordination permit adequate use of each type
of resource, avoiding duplicated actions, and guaranteeing suitability of actions.
36.3. Another important aspect is the preparation of a judicial framework and a legal instrument that
facilitates the process of contracting services to institutions of various judicial types, so as to provide
care to the population.
36.4. To achieve improvement in the areas of equality, efficiency, effectiveness and quality of care
requires the introduction, within the normal perfornance of care services, of specific actions related
to various aspects of the health care process. That's why it is important to reach an agreement as to
common criteria and to standardize procedures for solving health and functional problems. These
common criteria must be reached by professional consensus. In order to achieve this, the Ministry of
Health, in coordination with the Social Security Institute, must promote work formulas and methods
which permit the participation of professionals in these activities.
36.5. Another relevant aspect is the development of actions aimed at the rationalization of expenses.
That's why lines are proposed which should progressively allow for efficiency of special types of
benefits and services, while always maintaining quality and care that meets the needs of the
population. Prescribing drugs and the use of medical technologies specifically mentioned in this
document, are priority action areas.
37. Objectives for modernization of health services:
37.1. EQUALITY: Giving the population equal access to optimum comprehensive, individual,
family, environmental, and community health and to receive the services corresponding to their
personal and environmental needs.
37.2. EFFICIENCY: To achieve optimum health with the minimum human, physical, and financial
resources.
37.3. EFFECTIVENESS: To increase positive indicators of public health and the environment.
37.4. QUALITY: To achieve optimum satisfaction of those offering and demanding services, and
their conscious and caring participation in the process of public health care.
VIII. REFORM PROJECT FOR THE PUBLIC HEALTH CARE NETWORK IN PANAMA
38. Objectives and structure
38.1. The main objective of the project is to contribute to the health care strategy of the Panamanian
government in order to achieve greater efficiency in health care expenditures and equality in access
to and use of health services for all population groups, and especially the most needy. The project
will pilot the implementation of a new organizational, financial, and health services delivery model
for the population of the San Miguelito Health Region, Las Cumbres and Chilibre. It will support
institutional strengthening of the central level of MINSA (Ministry of Health) so as to perform pilot
studies; it will support the development of a strategic partnership between MINSA and CSS to
provide public care services in the San Miguelito Health Region; and it will start activities in



Page 56
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
preparation for extending the reforms to the health regions of Veraguas, Los Santos and Panama
Oeste.
39. Description of Project Components
40. Component 1. Pilot implementation of a new organization, financing, and health services
delivery model in the San Miguelito Health Region
40.1. This component corresponds to pilot implementation of the new model for financing,
organizing, and providing health services in the San Miguelito Health Region, implying
implementation of the reform policy and the modernization of the health care sector in a regional
health system, incorporating the Ministry of Health and Social Security Institute and including health
facilities at several levels of complexity, from the primary care network, up to the regional hospital,
public, and environmental health care and the regulatory function of the Ministry of Health within
the context of the sanitation region.
40.2. The objective of this component is to integrate MINSA and CSS and to strengthen the regional
institutional capacity as well as providing comprehensive health services for planning, purchasing
and providing health services, and increasing community participation, which are intended to
improve efficiency in health expenditures and the use of and access to health care services for all
population groups, and especially the most needy.
40.3. This component is structured by means of six sub-components built around institutional
development and the operational capacity of levels and locations of the Regional Health Directorate
and Social Security Institute. It seeks to integrate a new model for financing, purchasing, and
allocation of financial resources. It is to be based on a best offer capacity within a service network
that is founded on infrastructure and equipment, as well as technical staff trained to resolve matters
through quality services; supported by stronger public participation and responsibility, with
increased democratization and a strengthening of current community structures. This component
will also involve a strong public marketing process promoting the proposed change, and which will
monitor and constantly evaluate advances and results so as to allow feedback.
41. Sub-component 1. Strengthening the integration of MINSA-CSS'sjfor the purchase of health
services andfor joint programming at a regional leveL
41.1. This sub-component is aimed at integrating MINSA and CSS at the regional level through
following mechanisms:
41.2. Consolidating the regional purchase function through integration and implementation within
the context of the National Purchaser Entity (FINSALUD), as well as legal and operative
arrangements for implementation, including the training of public officials.
41.3. Putting into place mechanisms for the purchase of services and for the transfer of funds from
the purchasing entity to the regional level of MINSA and CSS, as well as to those service providers
in each health area (health center), polyclinics, and regional hospitals, and providing public health
services with Regional Health Administration. This activity proposes the development of a system
for the allocation of resources with providers, which will be reflected in performance agreements and
program-contracts.



Page 57
Project Title: Health Sector Reforn Pilot Project
41.4. The design of payment and resource allocation mechanisms for providers as alternatives to the
budgetary allocation system, and the development of cost recovery systems addressed to the
population not registered in CSS, but with the ability to pay.
41.5. The scheduled integration of MINSA and CSS at the regional level, through joint formulation
of strategic health plans and the information system of both institutions.
41.6. Identifying the user population inside the regional health care model, which sets up an
adequate foundation for local programs, the recovery of costs, and a system of inter-institutional cost
compensation.
42. Sub-component 2: Strengthening of managerial capacity in the San Miguelito Health
Region
42.1. This sub-component intends to apply a new health care management model at the regional
level, implementing new managerial instruments on previously developed systems, or developing
and adapting some existing systems, especially those related to:
42.2. The development and implementation of new managerial techniques in hiring and
administering human resources; quality of management; supply of medication and medical supplies;
an accounting, billing and cost compensation system; and a system of complete epidemiological
surveillance, based at the local level.
42.3. The design, adaptation and implementation of a managerial and transactional information
system at the regional level and throughout the network of ambulatory services, including design and
development of software and integration of several managerial, finance, epidemiological and clinical
sub-systems previously generated at the outset of the project; personnel training and equipping;
installation and setting up the computer network.
43. Sub-component 3: Strengthening and integration of the health service network at the
regional level.
43.1. This sub-component is intended to consolidate the family, community and environmental
primary health care model. It is based on a strategy of primary health care and the development of
local health care systems in the region; to start strategic and operative planning linked to changes in
the model for formulation of budgets and in relation to program-contracts with providers;
development of incentive systems, and the physical repairing and equipping of all ambulatory care
facilities within the network. This is in order to achieve accreditation, in accordance with the level
of resolution capacity expected and the level of responsibility to the public, including a system for
maintaining such infrastructure and equipment.
43.2. The implementation of new family, community, and environment primary health care model
includes the establishment of Basic Health Teams (EBS for its Spanish acronym) in 70 sanitation
zones, corresponding to the 8 health centers and 2 policlinics of the region; the establishment of
support and basic specialties for complementary care teams in 8 health Centers; and adapting the
health care model with extensive involvement of officials and network technicians, based on their
own experience in implementation during the first year of the project.



Page 58
Project Ttle: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
43.3. The implementation of managerial instruments for local strategic planning of sanitation areas;
the formulation and negotiation of budgets, activities and results through program-contracts with the
health region; the development and implementation of an incentive systemf linked to productivity,
efficiency, and achieving results; and the implementation of a preventive maintenance system for
health facilities and equipment at the local level.
43.4. The repair and equipping of health facilities in the ambulatory network and regional health
directorate, based on a needs analysis and the creation of local projects linked to organizational
change, recurrent low cost (less than 10 percent of investment), improvement in quality received by
users, integration of a new care and action model, as well as staying within budget ceilings for each
establishment based on a physical crediting system of health units, in accordance with to their
resolution capacity category, sophistication, and population. These are expected to prepare 70
existing EBS medical offices, and to build and furnish 38 additional medical offices and 19 offices
for nursing and community care; to improve complementary care for specialties, and diagnosis in 8
health centers, and to improve the administrative and statistical public care facilities which show a
deficiency in the quality of care received by the public.
44. Sub-component 4: Increasing community participation in health care services.
44.1. This sub-component seeks to strengthen community organizations which support the health
care network at the local and regional level and to enlarge the democratic participation of society in
these organizations, especially through standardization and consolidation of the Regional Health
Council, strengthening the democratic base of health committees currently operating in the region;
and the establishment of family health councils at the community or neighborhood level, in
cooperation with basic health teams. It is expected that health personnel and community leaders at
all organization levels will be trained.
45. Sub-component 5: Development and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation
system
45.1. This component is intended to evaluate and follow up on the reforn project, the evaluation of
care and action models to be implemented, their strategies and tools, knowledge of the project's
impact on health situation, efficiency in resource utilization, equality in access to and use of health
services, and maintaining an information system throughout the project's implementation. This
component has three defined activities:
45.2. A base-line study evaluating the situation in the San Miguelito Health Region and the central
level of MINSA, MINSA-CSS relations and financing, purchase and services provision functions, in
accordance with previously proposed design.
45.3. Carrying out intermediate and final evaluation to analyze results.
45.4. Training officials to evaluate and monitor the project.
46. Sub-component 6: Design and execution of a social marketing campaign.
46.1. This sub-component is intended to support the discussion of proposed changes in the Sector
Reform Project, aimed at public and political leaders, officials of the state and, in particular, MINSA
and CSS, through the mass media. This is to create a sense of viability and support, to reduce



Page 59
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
resistance to change, and to disseminate information on the success of the process. This activity will
include the design of the Social Marketing Plan, the production of communications material and the
execution of the campaign.
47. Component 2. Institutional strengthening of the central level of the Ministry of Health to
support pilot project implementation in the San Miguelito Health Region and developing a
strategic partnership between MINSA and CSS
47.1. This component is conceived as one of the strategic targets in reorganizing the National Health
System (SNS) and consolidating the vision and guidelines formulated for developing the reform and
modernization process in the health care sector.
47.2. As its name indicates, the objective of this component is to strengthen the central level of
MINSA in order to generate the potential for supporting the pilot RSSM and to develop a strategic
partnership with CSS, permitting the integration of both institutions in those aspects relevant to
offering health services to the public.
47.3. The component is structured through four sub-components, having as a focal point the
organizational and functional restructuring of MINSA, based on the separation of financing,
purchasing, and provision of health services functions.
48. Sub-component 7: Institutional strengthening of MINSA
48.1. It includes development and adaptation of the new structure and function of MINSA, including
design improvements to the physical plant and equipment at MINSA's headquarters. This is a
function of the new organizational model and the development of managerial information system for
the administration, as well as the monitoring of public and environmental health.
48.2. This component also includes the development of a juridical framework for the reform
process, starting with studies and consultations needed to formulate the General Health Law and the
MINSA Organic Law, the General Human Resources Law, the regulatory framework for societal
participation and the law granting autonomy to some public health services.
48.3. The task will be accomplished by means of national level consultation, with the final product
being the aforementioned body of laws, besides the training of administrators and decision makers.
Training will be conducted in coordination with the Human Resources Planning Rectory of the
Planning Directorate.
48.4. In accordance with the proposed changes, there will be a training plan covering reforms, which
is addressed to central level officials of MINSA and CSS, and involving the participation of officials
from selected health regions. The plan should go into depth and consolidate the concepts of reform
and modernization of the Panamanian health care sector.
48.5. Gorgas Commemorative Health Studies Institute (ICGES, for its Spanish acronym) will
participate in a needs priority study by illness, making it possible for the rectory to focus current
processes by defining national and regional health priorities. The results of the study will serve as
the input for developing a catalogue of basic interventions and to review those standards regulating
the administration of public health care services.



Page 60
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
48.6. This sub-component is intended to achieve the creation of a corporate agreement between
MINSA and CSS, clearly defining the mechanisms for integrating and coordinating the
administration of health care services within both institutions, the development of shared quality
standards, and a cost compensation system, among others.
49. Sub-component 8: Development of MINSA's financing capacity
49.1. This component includes the study and design of a public health iinsurance scheme as a
financing alternative for non-registered population, emphasizing the least protected groups. This
initiative is conceived as a focus of health care expenses aimed at certain population groups, which
due to their socioeconomic condition or to disability, require financial support in sanitation care; this
being one of their rights. The proposal to be presented will include corresponding feasibility studies
and it will be approved by a consensus of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy (MIPPE, for
its Spanish acronym) and CSS.
50. Component 3. Activities preparing to extend the reform process toward other health
regions
50.1. The Ministry of Health, conscious of the complex framework of the health care sector, and
taking into account the nature of changes of attitude which should take place as a result of the
proposed new organizational and functional order, has opted for a graduated reform and
modernization process, with broad participation of all sectors and interested groups, thus leading to a
lesser degree of opposition to reform initiatives.
50.2. This component is for the purpose of the describing and analyzing the health situation in each
of the selected regions (Los Santos, Veraguas, PanamA Oeste) in order to carry out necessary
adjustments when expanding the experiences of the RSSM pilot project into those regions.
50.3. The structure includes a sub-component covering activities related to technical assistance,
training of officials, base line studies and other pilot studies which will serve as input for adaptability
studies for the new management model.
50.4. There will be support workshops for public participation in three health regions for the purpose
of permitting the involvement of community leaders and organized community groups in the process
of planning reforms.
Likewise, there will be managerial teams at the regional and local levels which will be trained in
major aspects of the reform.
51. Sub-component 9: Studies, pilot activities, technical assistance and training for starting to
expand the reform process into the health regions of Veraguas, Panama Oeste and Los Santos
This sub-component includes four activities:
51.1. Organic and functional adaptation of the regional health system, for the performance of:
51.2. the rectory function, for the purpose creating a basis of information and analysis of the
regional system of each province involved, and to prioritize regional health problems, using available
information and results of illness studies to be performed in component 2: formulation of regional
strategic plans, with joint cooperation of MINSA-CSS, for the years I 999 and 2000; implementation



Page 61
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
and validation of national standards for population and environment health; and the consolidation of
the new organizational structure and regional health care functions, including the way both
institutions, MINSA and CSS, will be integrated.
51.3. Studies for the functional development of providing public health services,
52. Public and environmental care on the part of MINSA's and CSS's health units in each health
region, including the development of an integrated health care model appropriate to local conditions;
development of a regional health care management model involving MINSA and CSS, consolidating
the advances made in the separation of provision and financing; compensation for costs among
providers; identification of users and implementation of cost recovery mechanisms. This includes the
integration of a MINSA-CSS service network at the regional level; definition and description of the
service network by its levels of complexity; modification of the health service accreditation system;
implementation of management agreements with health care providers of MINSA and CSS;
implementation of a patient referral system aimed at the interior of the regional network.
52.1. Training of officials, management teams, directors, and community leaders regarding
principles, objectives, and the new model of organization; financing and providing health care
services, including communication and social marketing of the reform plan to build regional
consensus and train officials and technicians from MINSA and CSS in management techniques for
implementing the sectorial reform plan in the health regions.
52.2. Pre-investment studies in health regions of Veraguas, Los Santos, and Panama Oeste
52.3. Covering requirement for repairing the physical plant and equipment, which make it possible
to define a regional investment plan.
This being said, we express our sentiments of respect.
Cordially,
Dr. Guillermo Chapman                         Dra. Aida de Rivera
Minister of Planning and Economic Policy      Minister of Health
Panama, February 16, 1998



Page 62
Project Tite: Health Sector Reform Pilot Projed
Annex 12
Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
Corporate Agreement between the MOH and the CSS
(Translated into Spanish)
INSTITUTIONAL COORDINATION AGREEMENT FOR DEVELOPING THE PROCESS OF
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM IN PANAMA, INVOLVING THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND
THE SOCIAL SECURITY INSTITUTE
The undersigned, who is AIDA LIBIA MORENO DE RIVERA, female, Panamanian, being of age
and resident of this city, with personal identification card No. 7-52-318, and being the Minister of
Health. The other party being MARIANELA E. MORALES A., female, Panamanian, being of age
and resident of this city with personal identification card No. 8-147-699, in the capacity of President
and Legal Representative of the Social Security Institute.
TAKING INTO CONSIDERATION:
That the Ministry of Health and the Social Security Institute have favored integration and
coordination between the two institutions in providing health care services to the population. This is
in fulfillment of legal regulations contained in, amnong others, the 1972 Constitution of the Republic,
Chapter 6, Article 111; the 1991 agreement for functional coordination in the offering of services
between the Health Ministry and the Social Security Fund, and the Agreement for Providing Public
Health Services dated 14 August 1995.
That the Ministry of Health and the Social Security Institute have established a process to formulate
health care policies for the population, as well as to modernize and reform institutions, which comply
with the objectives.
That satisfying the demand of health services from the population requires a joint effort from both
institutions to achieve the greatest equality, efficiency, effectiveness, anid quality of the public health
care network.
That the Ministry of Health and the Social Security Institute have been wvorking in a cooperative and
dedicated manner for the past two years in the design and formulation of a new model of
management, and provision of health services within the context of the San Miguelito Health Region.
Las Cumbres y Chilibre, which includes financial responsibility from each institution, through a cost
compensation system.
That the Ministry of Health has established a Health Sector Reform Pilot Project which is to be
jointly promoted by both institutions.
THEY HEREBY DECLARE:
That good health is a human right, and that the state should support actions which guarantee the
greatest possible access of the entire population to health services.
That the social development program, with economic aid from the government, stimulates the
streamlining and optimization of social investments, among which health is a priority.



Page 63
Project Title: Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
That causing the public health care service system to function in an orderly and well-coordinated
manner leads to providing higher-quality services with equal opportunity, greater efficiency to all the
population. This benefits the beneficiary population, regardless of whether or not they are affiliated
with Social Security.
That both institutions have areas of specific responsibility, other than providing direct health care
services to the population, such as public health care regulations and interventions of the Ministry of
Health, or coverage of professional risks, disability, aging and death provided by the Social Security
Institute, which are not included in this agreement.
That coordination and integration of the public health care service system is a means of streamlining
and optimizing social investment, which allows both institutions to comply with the legal regulations
that govern each.
IT IS AGREED:
1. To mutually form a Commission for Political Coordination of the Public Health Care Reform
System (CPR), which will be responsible for the two institutions concertedly moving forward in the
establishment of joint reform policies for the health care sector, developing technical programs and
projects, and the coordination of actions at the administrational and operational levels to support the
evaluation and monitoring process of reform and modernization of public health care services.
2. The Coordination of Public Health Care Reform System will be presided over by the Minister of
Health and the Director of the Social Security Institute. It will be made up of the high level officials
from both institutions.
3. The CPR will establish a Technical Secretariat, made up of technical officials from both
institutions, responsible for presenting to the Commission proposals on strategic planning and
development of technical studies, the execution and evaluation process of projects aimed at
strengthening the public health care service system nationwide.
4. They commit themselves to mutually and concertedly support the preparation and implementation
of the Health Sector Reform Pilot Project and to strengthen coordination of the reform process to
develop and expand it in the Health Regions made up of the Public Health Care Service System.
Both institutions will be responsible for above.
5. The two institutions will establish institutional coordination mechanisms at the regional level of
the public health care service system, which permit extending the reform and modernization process
nationwide with the guidance of both institutions.
Panama, Republic of Panama, June 26, 1998
Dr. Aida Moreno de Rivera                  Dr. Marianela Morales
Minister of Health                         Director General of the Social Security Institute



MAP SECTION



B4Ai .                     -       3                                  t                                  Q                                 TA-           -.7
CAIBBEAN
z  ~ ~ ~~~EPtWs-~.SEA
COSTA
RICA   A.. ... .....9...US.
p                    dv    th Pu    A     A   Mul A!                                                                                                                \u ,   fLi.t               HEA AM S       z  t ai
Helt    Sevie   Regon                                          Los- ulkgton
N~~~~~
OHRHEALTH       SECTORS  REFOR              PIOTER OJC                                          ?Th4lAm        d             90-ILOMETERS                           "<P                    DO ENIZUEAN
Health~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tebuno3scXr yeajaj6inUnfhh ol Serice Region                                                             <751       DRA\              ) *BN
Thw a his    manp do a produe by   o the Mp Dsinfoi of The World Book.-]CLMs                               /   N5
z                                                                                        end~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Goup,en oy judgehnt nthe logoa1 stnts of uny  Mcci tory, or oiny  O.CEAN  _IW3/BA,t K ;
endosotnn  orouuptue h6 deu hounPdooie                            -           f,           J~\<  DAI



