                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32251

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-43750)

                                                  ON A

                                LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF $4.3 MILLION DOLLARS

                                                    TO

                                     THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA

                                                 FOR A

                             HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PILOT PROJECT




                                              July 20, 2005




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective December 2004)

                                 Currency Unit = Balboa (B/.)
                                  1.00 Balboa = US$ 1.00
                                     US$ 1.00 = 1 Balboa

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1    December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CSS      Social Security Institute
CONSALUD National Health Coordinator -- Coordinadora Nacional de Salud
ERL      Economic Recovery Lona
GOP      Government of Panama
HISMA    San Miguel Arcangel Integrated Hospital -- Hospital Integrado San Miguel Arcangel
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
LIL      Learning and Innovation Loan
LHC      Local Health Communities -- Comités Locales de Salud
MEF      Ministry of Economy and Finance -- Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas
MOH      Ministry of Health -- Ministerio de Salud
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PAHO     Pan-America Health Organization
PCU      Project Coordinating Unit
PHRD     Japan Policy and Human Resource Development Fund
PROJECT  Panama's Health Sector Reform Pilot Project
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
SIES     Integrated Health Information System -- Sistema Integral Estadísticas en Salud
SIL      Specific Investment Loan
SMHR     San Miguelito Health Region -- Región de Salud de San Miguelito
SURCO    Referral and Counter Referral System -- Sistema Unico de Referencia y Contra
         Referencia
UNDP     United Nation Development Program



                               Vice President:    Pamela Cox
                            Country Director      Jane Armitage
                       Acting Sector Manager      Cristian C. Baeza
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Jesús María Fernandez Díaz

                                           PANAMA
                                    PA HEALTH PILOT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            18
6. Sustainability                                                                20
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              24
10. Additional Information                                                       32
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             34
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             36
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             38
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             39
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            43

Project ID: P040179                                                  Project Name: PA HEALTH PILOT
Team Leader: Jesus Maria Fernandez Diaz                              TL Unit: LCSHH
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: July 20, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: PA HEALTH PILOT                                          L/C/TF Number: SCL-43750
   Country/Department: PANAMA                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (52%); Central government administration (48%)
                  Theme: Decentralization (P); Health system performance (P); Administrative
                            and civil service reform (P); Participation and civic engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/30/1997                                     Effective: 03/01/1998                03/01/1999
     Appraisal: 04/13/1998                                         MTR:
      Approval: 07/16/1998                                      Closing: 03/01/2001                 04/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MIN OF HEALTH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:                 Cristian C. Baeza                              Xavier E. Coll
Team Leader at ICR:             Jesus Maria Fernandez Diaz                     Hernan Montenegro
ICR Primary Author:             Jesus Maria Fernandez Diaz;
                                Juan Pablo Uribe; Olympia
                                Beatriz Icochea


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1 Original Objective:

The Panama Health Sector Reform Pilot Project was to support the Government of Panama's health sector
strategy aimed at improving the health status of the Panamanian population. This health sector strategy
was based on a then proposed reform program that would increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the
country's health sector, while at the same time achieving better equity in access and utilization of health
services. To achieve this objective, the Project would serve as a pilot for the Government's reform in the
San Miguelito Health Region (SMHR). There, it would allow the Government of Panama (GOP) to
develop, implement and test reform instruments, and to better understand and manage the institutional
changes entailed by the reform process before extending it to the rest of the country.

In particular, the Project would pilot an innovative model for financing, organizing and providing health
services in the SMHR, based on the following strategies and activities:
(a)      increase access and utilization of health services, particularly among the poor, through the
development and implementation of (i) a user identification system, (ii) new community participatory
mechanisms, (iii) a cost compensation system between the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Social
Security Institute (CSS), and (iv) a cost-recovery scheme adjusted by family income;

(b)      improve the efficiency of health expenditures through the development and implementation of (i) a
corporate agreement between the MOH and the CSS integrating both entities in strategic areas, (ii) an
innovative health services purchasing function, (iii) an innovative management model for the new hospital
in the SMHR, (iv) a new primary health care model, and (v) new management techniques and information
systems at the central, regional and provider levels; and

(c)      carry out institutional strengthening activities at the MOH central level to implement the pilot in
the SMHR and initiate preparatory activities for scaling up the reform process in other health regions in the
country.

The justification for a learning and innovation loan was strong. Although Panama's health sector was
facing chronic limitations and difficulties in terms of efficiency, equity and quality of health care,
attempting alternative solutions to resolve these was difficult, mainly due to strong resistance from interest
groups within the sector and to weak institutional capacity. The existence of a disintegrated health system,
particularly between the CSS and the MOH, was singled out as the most important structural factor
conditioning the disappointing results, including rising health costs and low user satisfaction. In the years
prior to the signing of the loan for the Health Sector Reform Pilot Project (1996 and 1997), various
political and sector-specific circumstances came together to make feasible a pilot experience where new
models and instruments for health services delivery in the country could be tested. Pro reform leadership
was in place in the MOH and the CSS, and the launching of a brand new public hospital in the SMHR
provided a unique opportunity to use a core instrument for the reform model to be tested.

The Project was consistent with Panama's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed on December,
2004. CAS document number 13846-PAN. Date of latest discussion: December 28, 1994. The CAS
focused on reviving sustainable growth and alleviating poverty. Among the strategies for the latter were (i)
to improve efficiency and equity of social expenditures through sector reforms, especially in health and
education, and (ii) to advance institutional modernization and capacity building. The Project was fully
aligned with both pillar strategies. On one hand, it sought new models for articulating MOH's and CSS's
efforts to deliver more efficient and equitable health services; on the other, it included institutional
strengthening actions at the central and regional levels to help deal with the sector reform implementation.




                                                       - 2 -

The Project's design and scope were mostly properly defined. The design reflected lessons learned from
interventions in other countries that had also faced the dilemma of how to better coordinate public
expenditures and services in the health sector. Support from a Japanese PHRD grant (TF 025499) helped
set the bases for project implementation. For example, legal dispositions creating the new, joint purchasing
function for the MOH and the CSS (the Coordinadora Nacional de Salud, CONSALUD) and the
autonomous board of the new San Miguelito Hospital were enacted during the first semester of 1998, just
before the signing and effectiveness of the loan. The Project's scope properly fit with the existing portfolio
of projects in the health sector. It      complemented with policy innovation the basic coverage efforts
undertaken by the then ongoing Rural Health Project (Ln. 3841-PA), which targeted nutritional and water
and sanitation needs in the poorest districts in the country, and secured synergies and economies of scale in
managerial aspects where possible.

Most important, the Health Sector Reform Pilot Project was designed and understood since its beginning as
a learning and innovation loan. This was reflected by: (i) focusing on innovating on a major health policy
issue, in this case achieving better efficiency between the MOH and the CSS; (ii) selecting a pilot region
based on a careful analysis of opportunities for successful implementation; (iii) defining ex ante a precise
set of instruments and tools to be developed, aligned with the reform objectives; (iv) quickly putting in
place the needed legal bases that would enable the implementation of the pilot and prevent easy
draw-backs; (v) defining proper evaluation mechanisms throughout project implementation, and (vi)
anticipating specific activities for consensus building and results dissemination, both needed to expand the
reform process. Implementation would later prove the importance of considering these design features, and
the missed opportunities for only partially implementing one of them: evaluation.

In accordance with its LIL condition and scope, the Project envisioned a series of policy and process
indicators. It did not attempt to be an investment loan that would seek major health outcome improvements
or other impact or coverage targets. Rather, project development objectives defined at entry included
improved efficiency of health expenditures and equity in the use of health services limited to the SMHR.
Expected project outputs included: (i) a developed and operational model for planning, financing,
purchasing and providing health services, (ii) the institutional strengthening of the MOH central level, and
(iii) preparation for extension of the reform process to other health regions. All these were process-oriented
outputs, appropriate for the learning and innovation nature of this loan.

Finally, the Project was not too complex in terms of implementation, even though its design included
profound innovative features and a wide array of instruments to be developed and tried. It was not
anticipated to be overly demanding either, as assessments carried out during preparation showed the
Borrower had the proper technical, financial and administrative capacity at the MOH and CSS central
levels and at the selected health region. Critical political and legal challenges were properly resolved before
the effectiveness of the loan, paving the way for the initiation of implementation of a pilot project.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable

3.3 Original Components:
The Project consisted of four components, all related to achieving its objectives. Following is a description
of each component, as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and Loan Agreement.

Component I. Piloting of a new model for providing, organizing and financing health services in the
SMHR (US$3.21 million, equivalent to 53.2 percent of total project costs).




                                                      - 3 -

This component was designed to implement, as a pilot experience in the SMHR, a new model for financing,
organizing and providing health services in Panama. Its subcomponents included:
(a)     the design and implementation of a new health services purchasing function for the MOH and the
CSS, including the utilization of management agreements between financiers and providers, the design and
implementation of alternative transfer and payment systems, and the identification of users within the health
system;
(b)     strengthening the management of the SMHR through (i) the development and implementation of
new management techniques (establishment of norms and preparation of manuals for personnel
management, drug supply and quality control systems, a cost-compensation system and a public health
surveillance system), and (ii) the design and operation of a new integrated management information system;
(c)     strengthening and integrating the health services provider network in the selected region through (i)
the design and implementation of new management techniques, (ii) the implementation of an innovative
Primary Health Care Model, and (iii) the rehabilitation and equipping of the primary health centers and
regional offices of the SMHR;
(d)     strengthening community participation in the organization and delivery of health services, including
the existing local health committees, other relevant community organizations and new participatory
mechanisms;
(e)     the design and implementation of a social marketing campaign to help build consensus among
stakeholders with respect to the reform process; and
(f)     the design and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system for the pilot.

Component II. Institutional strengthening activities at the central level (MOH) to support the
implementation of the pilot, and development of a strategic partnership between the MOH and the
CSS (US$2.02 million, equivalent to 33.5 percent of total project costs).

This component aimed at strengthening the MOH's central level in the areas of policy making, regulation
and financing in order to support the pilot implementation and the future extension of the reform process,
and at developing a corporate agreement between the MOH and the CSS in key strategic areas, included:
(a)     strengthening the MOH through (i) the development and execution of a restructuring and
reorganization plan, including the rehabilitation of its headquarters, (ii) the development of quality control
and accreditation systems, (iii) the development of a medical waste management plan, (iv) the development
of a management information system, (v) the preparation of legal and regulatory proposals necessary for
the reform process, and (vi) carrying out the corporate agreement between the MOH and the CSS; and
(b)     developing and implementing a new financing mechanism, consolidating the implementation of a
cost-compensation system developed for the MOH and the CSS under the Bank's Economic Recovery
Loan (ERL), and conducting a feasibility study to introduce a health insurance scheme for the uninsured.

Component III. Preparation activities to scale up the reform to other regions (US$0.3 million,
equivalent to 5 percent of total project costs).

This component included preparatory activities to expand the reform process to other health regions in the
country, such as facilitating the integration of health reform teams in other regions and adapting the San
Miguelito's pilot to varying local conditions.

Component IV. Project management (US$0.5 million, equivalent to 8.3 percent of total project costs).

This component financed the administrative and operating costs of both the Project Coordinating Unit
(PCU) and the San Miguelito Health Region over the initially envisioned three-year implementation period.
It included procurement and maintenance of computing, office and medical equipment, vehicles for project


                                                      - 4 -

activities and consumable office supplies and materials at the PCU and the San Miguelito Region
Directorate.

3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable

3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no official assessment of the quality at entry by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG). The
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) considers the quality at entry to be satisfactory and the Project as
well conceived for its learning and innovation purposes. As mentioned in Section 3.1, the Project's
objective was consistent with the CAS and with the GOP's priorities for the health sector. It addressed
with innovation and technical soundness core critical needs in Panama's health sector. And it did so based
on a gradual, well-prepared implementation plan.

The design of the Project was mostly appropriate. The lack of coordination between the MOH and the
CSS imposed high costs and poor results on the health sector throughout the country. In its contents, the
Project included truly innovative features to address this issue; features from which Panama's health sector
would be able to learn and advance needed policy discussions. Two major elements deserve special
reference:
·        The creation and functioning of a new purchasing function. Created by Law 27 of May 1st,
1998, CONSALUD was, and still is, a major reform within Panama's health sector. In spite of its limited
development (further discussed), it is a unique instrument for pursuing two core, complementary goals: (i)
articulating MOH and CSS financial resources under a scheme capable of reducing cross-subsidies and
inefficiencies between both entities; and (ii) separating the financing, purchasing and provider functions,
hence enabling the existence of clear incentives for efficiency, effectiveness and quality of services
delivered.
·        Support of a new hospital management model. Project design correctly identified the unique
opportunity posed by the inauguration of a brand new public hospital in the SMHR. Law 28 of May 11,
1998, provided the legal base for an autonomous board to lead this hospital and for the hospital financing
through a contract service with CONSALUD. Thereafter, with the decisive support of the Project, the San
Miguel Arcangel Integrated Hospital (HISMA) has become the reference against which other traditional
hospital models across the country can be compared in terms of efficiency, effectiveness and quality of
services. In fact, HISMA has become a useful, yet troublesome for many, benchmark of hospital
performance, clearly surpassing MOH and CSS hospitals in terms of efficiency and quality indicators.

However, implementation would prove that project design did not include sufficient elements to secure
active and persistent CSS collaboration. The resistance within the CSS proved stronger than the corporate
agreements signed with the MOH in 1998 and 2001. The CSS logic and functioning was by then, and still
is, clearly different and independent from that of the MOH. In order to secure its full participation in
policy and programmatic efforts lead by the MOH, further political, financial and/or institutional
arrangements with direct incentives for the CSS would have been needed.

The timing of the project, although not ideal for risk mitigation purposes, was indicated in terms of reform
opportunity. With political and technical leadership in place and in agreement in the MOH and the CSS in
1998, and with the legal bases for CONSALUD and the HISMA enacted, a unique window of opportunity
for launching a pilot reform experience existed in Panama. Unfortunately, this window of opportunity
­usually narrow and short-lasting in the health sector- occurred just before an electoral year (1999). This
was an adverse circumstance the Project had to deal with. And it was one that, although having a negative
impact on its implementation cycle, was not sufficient to erode or erase the reform lessons provided by the



                                                      - 5 -

Project.

How to successfully support a health reform process was a core question to be resolved. Lessons learned
from other reform initiatives in the region were discussed and reflected in the project design. Among these
were: (i) gradual reforms seem to be more feasible (than radical changes) but require thorough evaluations
and consensus building actions; (ii) institutional capacity and cooperation within the main government
agencies involved with the reform process must be secured; (iii) project design should remain simple, with
flexibility built into the implementation phases; (iv) monitoring and supervision need to be part of the
design, and (v) cooperation with other donor / financing institutions need to be in place.

The structuring of a pilot program expressed the Government's preference for a gradual reform approach.
This decision acknowledged the presence of strong resistance to change within the sector (in particular,
among health workers in the CSS and MOH) and the need for major institutional strengthening. The
selection of the region where to carry out the pilot ­another critical decision for project success- was done
carefully and took these two constraints into consideration. The SMHR was chosen among 13 other health
regions in the country based on: (i) the strong existence in it of the health sector issues to be addressed, in
particular the lack of coordination between the MOH and the CSS; (ii) its adequate technical and
managerial capacity; (iii) the unique opportunity, for the model to be tested, created by the opening of a
brand new hospital (HISMA) with no restrictions for innovative management, personnel and service
arrangements; (iv) a strong history of social and community participation in primary health services, and
(v) its significant population (roughly 15 percent of the country's total population).

Project preparation and design involved stakeholder consultation and participation. Health personnel
participated in workshops that discussed the two models to be tested in the SMHR: the primary health care
model and the new hospital arrangement. Two social assessments were done prior to implementation. One
was a study on the perceptions and expectations of citizens regarding health services in the SMHR. This
assessment included focus groups with minority, indigenous groups. The other was a map of the existing
social groups active in the region. A participatory approach cut across the project's various phases and
components. For example, community associations in the SMHR were directly involved in Component I,
which included actions to strengthen them; wide social representation was built into the HISMA governing
board; and union leaders were invited to discuss the primary health care and hospital models, and
participated in the legislative discussions leading to the CONSALUD and HISMA laws.

During preparation, other project designs were considered. The main alternative discussed was a Specific
Investment Loan (SIL). However, a LIL was preferred after a thoughtful analysis that considered (i) the
complex challenges in institutional capacity and individual behavior posed by the reform process; (ii) the
numerous instruments and interventions that composed the "reform tool kit" and needed to be developed,
implemented and tested; and, most important, (iii) the wide range of stakeholders, interests and resistance to
change anticipated in any reform attempt, for which a pilot would be the ideal setting to identify, test and
learn how to best deal with and resolve. In sum, the discussion concluded that a LIL would better
contribute with instruments and experience to reduce the risk of failed attempts and the learning costs of a
major reform process.

Finally, the Project correctly identified and took into account risk factors that could negatively affect
implementation. The main risks recognized and the measures incorporated into the project design to
mitigate the former included:
(i)       political shifts that could subtract support from the reform process. Here, the Project made sure
political support was real and in place before effectiveness, and would stay such (as much as possible)
throughout implementation. Among other actions, the GOP had already laid out its reform plans in a health


                                                        - 6 -

policy letter, had created joint MOH-CSS political and technical commissions to lead the reform, and had
put in place a corporate agreement between the MOH and CSS to implement the Project. Although these
requirements would clearly prove insufficient to guarantee proper support for reform implementation when
political shifts did in fact take place, they did work out to prevent project failure and to preserve core
achievements;

(ii)     pressure and attacks by interest groups opposing the reform, in particular by health personnel
challenging the "privatizing" HISMA model. Here, the Project made sure proper legal instruments, not
easily reversible, were in place before loan effectiveness. Such was the case of the laws creating
CONSALUD and the HISMA governing board. In addition, project design built in (a) solid evaluation of
the HISMA model and its results obtained in order to feed a documented debate (this was not the case for
the SMHR model), and (b) a social marketing campaign to help consensus building around the reform; and

(iii)    insufficient and/or delayed budget allocation for the Project. To mitigate this risk, the project
design actively involved staff from the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), created a revolving
account to secure the needed local funds, and defined with precision the scope and conditions for
investments in equipment and infrastructure, limiting these to basic aspects with marginal recurrent costs.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. The Project's overriding objective ­to serve as a pilot for a reform process in Panama's
health sector- was achieved. Despite frequent political shifts, initial implementation delays and the lesser
than expected CSS involvement, the Project succeeded in introducing an ambitious set of innovative reform
policies and instruments to improve the performance of publicly-funded health services in Panama.
Specifically, it proved that better coordination between the MOH and the CSS is possible and can lead to
better health services delivery. These achievements can not be easily ignored and will serve as valuable
inputs in future policy discussions and reform implementation. In fact, these innovative elements have
already become useful inputs in health sector debates and are core pieces of the current 2004 ­ 2009
National Health Plan.

In particular, the Pilot Project introduced three major transformations in Panama's health sector: (i) an
integrated model for organizing and delivering health services in a region, (ii) an innovative arrangement for
hospital management (HISMA) which serves as comparison for the efficiency, effectiveness and quality of
care rendered by traditional hospital arrangements, and (iii) a shared MOH ­ CSS purchasing function at
the national level (CONSALUD).

At a more instrumental level, the Project also developed and implemented with relative success specific
managerial instruments, some of which are now being incorporated and utilized by other health regions.
Included here are the performance-oriented management agreements, the referral and counter referral
system (SURCO), the health information system (SIES) and the identification of users. Other products
supported by the Project are now also readily available for the sector and most probably will be further
implemented in the near future. These include, among others, the hospital accreditation system and the
joint (MOH-CSS) regional health plans.

The defined project development objective (a) of improved efficiency of health expenditures and equity in
the use of health services in the SMHR has been partially met. The same is the case of development
objective (b), to improve the efficiency of health expenditures. For both objectives, as depicted in Table 1,
the performance at the hospital level has been highly successful, but the indicators at the aggregated



                                                       - 7 -

regional level have been less so. Included in italics are some related indicators that help complement the
analysis as not all key performance indicators are available given the lack of CSS beneficiaries data at the
regional level. Finally, the institutional strengthening activities committed in project development objective
(c) were all conducted, enabling ­as further discussed- to prepare the bases for scaling up the reform
process in other regions of the country. Following is a more detailed evaluation of the mixed performance
at the hospital and regional levels.
                                                         Table 1
                                          Project's Key Performance Indicators

    KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR                        1998*  1999   2000    2001    2002    2003   2004
   At the San Miguelito Health Region level
Ratio of physicians primary care visits per day       24     n.a.   n.a.    n.a.   n.a.    n.a.   n.a.
(goal: increase from 24 to 30; 25% increase)
Daily number of physicians primary care visits.      3790   2093   1483    1523    1459    1339   1316
Health clinics referrals to HISMA (goal: lower        ---   0.3%   0.4%    0.9%   1.44%   1.36%  1.45%
than 5%)
Rate of primary care visits per year (goal: increase 2.08   1.10    0.84    0.82   0.78    0.70   0.67
from 1.64 to 2.14; 30% increase)
Difference of rate of primary care visits to         0.66    n.a.   n.a.    n.a.   n.a.    n.a.   n.a.
physicians   per   year   between     insured   and
uninsured (goal: decrease from 0.66 to 0.46; 30%
decrease)
Rate of primary care visits to physicians per year   1.36   0.37    0.20    0.18   0.15    0.14   0.12
among insured citizens.
Rate of primary care visits to physicians per year   0.59   0.68    0.59    0.59   0.58    0.50   0.48
among uninsured citizens.
               At the HISMA level
Bed occupancy rate (goal: 80-85%)                    10%    45.6% 68.9%    69.3%  74.1%   75.5%  84.4%
(*)       Only year that includes CSS statistics.
n.a.      not available.
Source: SMHR.


The Regional (SMHR) Performance:

The performance at the regional level was unsatisfactory, in part reflecting the impact caused by the CSS
reluctance (since 1999) to actively participate in the Project. This decision forced the MOH (and its
regional health directorate) to move ahead alone with the development and implementation of several
project activities. Even then, the MOH's own performance at the regional level, in particular with regard to
the functioning of the primary health centers, was less than satisfactory. The exception in the region was
provided by the HISMA, which fully performed at the expected level and successfully implemented those
instruments related to its day-to-day activities (such as the counter referral mechanism and the sliding-scale
co-payments.)

Official data from the SMHR suggest that the expected outcomes at the aggregated regional level were not
met. This result holds after excluding CSS-dependent variables. Apparently, in spite of all the efforts
made and the instruments developed with project support, between 1999 and 2004, the overall productivity
of the MOH's primary health centers declined year after year. For example, Table 1 shows a continuous
drop in the annual rates of primary care visits to physicians and in the total daily number of physician
primary care visits.

Possible explanations for this performance are multiple. Two strong hypotheses not sufficiently explored



                                                          - 8 -

by the Project itself have to do with limited service schedules and with the utilization of high co-payments
at the primary health centers. These variables, with significant potential impact in terms of access to health
services among the poorest segments of the population, were mainly left untouched by the reform process in
the region. Currently, both dimensions (schedules and co-payments) remain mainly discretionary of each
health center and take place within a context with no incentives for improved performance. Other plausible
explanations for these disturbing results include the high political turnover of directors and staff that took
place in the region and reached even basic personnel at the health centers, and the deficient quality of care
leading to low levels of user satisfaction.         Unfortunately, close monitoring and evaluation of the
performance at the regional level was not conducted during implementation, depriving this important
analysis from further discussion elements.

The Hospital ( HISMA) Performance:

Contrary to the above results at the regional level, the HISMA performance is highly satisfactory. Its
innovative model has clearly lead to enhanced efficiency, better quality of care and effective cost control
compared to similar hospitals throughout the country. The main structural difference between HISMA and
other public hospitals in Panama is that its financing is a direct function of the volume and quality of
services delivered. To a great extent, this is possible due to the initial flexibility it had in personnel hiring.
The HISMA represents today a showcase of innovative hospital management for Panama, the Central
America region and elsewhere. With the support of the Project, it has successfully implemented the core
management tools of a modern hospital, namely: participative, autonomous governance and executive
management, financial management and rigorous cost system monitoring, quality improvement programs
and medical protocols, performance-based provider and professional contracts, consumer-oriented services
and coordination with the primary and tertiary health care networks, among others.

Three outside evaluations have proven that the HISMA, with its model of autonomous governance and
professional management, annual services contracts with CONSALUD, and outsourced clinical and
ancillary services subject to close quality and productivity-base monitoring, performs better than CSS and
MOH hospitals.      A 2001 external evaluation concluded that the HISMA performed better than two
traditional public hospitals of similar complexity and size in terms of efficiency and quality indicators (see
Table 2). This positive result occurred in spite of four changes of hospital director between 1998 and
2000. Thereafter, HISMA has had the same director.
                                                      Table 2
HISMA Performance Compared to Other CSS and MOH Hospitals Bitrán & Asociados, "Evaluación del Modelo
 HISMA y Comparación con otros Dos Hospitales con Modelo Tradicional de Funcionamiento"; Santiago (Chile), August 1,
                                                       2001.
                                             Selected Indicators ­ 2001
Hospital Dimension               Indicator                HISMA         MOH Hospital       CSS Hospital
Productivity          Discharges per bed                     59.1            52.0               55.5
                      Major surgeries per surgery           1,154             560               1,110
                      room
Efficiency            Average length of stay                 3.2              4.7                4.0
                      Number of exams per discharge          14.9            51.0               143.6
Clinical              Percentage of C-sections               22.5            15.8                9.3
Management
                      Hospital Morbimortality                0.2              4.7           Not available
Costs (unitary)       Health visit                           56               38                 27
                      Surgery discharge                      550              778               545
                      C-section                              156              291               439
                      Paediatric discharge                   152              237               265




                                                        - 9 -

A second (2003) external evaluation reconfirmed these results: the HISMA model rendered better hospital
services in terms of efficiency and quality of care when compared to other traditional, public hospitals in
the country; in this case, the comparison included five MOH hospitals and one CSS hospital (see Table 3).
Again, these positive results happened in spite of external restrictions affecting the HISMA; in particular,
the institutional weakness of CONSALUD, expressed in payment delays and growing debts to the Hospital.
A 2004 external evaluation supported by UNDP ratified, overall, the positive performance of the HISMA
model. (Econosul Consultora, "Salud, Mayor Eficiencia y Equidad en Servicios Publicos"; UNDP Panama, 2004.) These
three evaluations also offered important recommendations on how to further improve the HISMA model
and its articulation with the health sector at the national level and within the SMHR.

                                                        Table 3
Comparative Analysis of HISMA and Six Other Public Hospitals Gesaworld S.A., "Diseño y Aplicación de Mejoras
                                al Sistema de Gestión Hospitalaria del HISMA", April 2004.
                                              Selected Indicators ­ 2002

          Indicator             HISMA         MOH          MOH           MOH          MOH       MOH        CSS
                                           Hospital 1   Hospital 2     Hospital 3   Hospital 4 Hospital 5 Hospital
Median cost per discharge        433.7        550.5        358.7          633.8       413.5     496.9      893.1
Average length of stay            3.08        4.24          3.86          3.88         4.72      5.62       3.25
Occupancy rate                   74.1%        59.8%         70%          66.4%        60.8%     75.3%      65%
Percentage of C-sections         25.6%        23.6%        22.8%         37.3%        37.8%     17.2%      15.4%
Waiting    time     (days)  for    10          23            53            82          11         69        not
ambulatory medical visit                                                                                  available
Waiting time (days) for surgical   12          130          120           145          110       145        not
procedure                                                                                                 available
Existence of a referral and        Yes         No            No            No          No        No         No
counter referral system
Existence of complaint system      Yes         No            No            No          No        No        Yes
for customers


In spite of these positive evaluations, the HISMA model confronts two major challenges. The first one has
to do with itself and its relative success: political shifts have given way to increasing attacks from various
stakeholders opposing its contracting out of clinical and ancillary services. In addition, CONSALUD owes
HISMA approximately US $9 million (US $7 million in 2003 and US $2 million in 2004). This growing
debt is explained by the CSS's refusal to pay its share via CONSALUD, arguing weaknesses in service
audit controls to its insured population in the HISMA. If this situation, mainly due to CONSALUD's
persisting institutional weakness, is not soon resolved, it is possible that HISMA will see its services and
quality indicators be seriously affected; in the longer term, this may force the Hospital to undergo
significant changes in order to survive. The second challenge is more for the health sector itself: how can
the HISMA model ­or its lessons and instruments- be extended throughout the country to improve
efficiency and quality of hospital services? This question is yet to be resolved by the new authorities,
specially considering that CONSALUD has not been fully institutionalized and developed, and that all
existing hospitals carry a complex set of rigidities and history that can not be ignored.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component I. Piloting of a new model for providing, organizing and financing health services in the
SMHR.

The Project succeeded, overall, in transforming the SMHR into a different, better organized, health region



                                                         - 10 -

in the country. Unfortunately, the CSS froze most of its active collaboration with the Pilot early in the
process (1999). This situation limited the extent and reach of most subcomponents and activities in this
component to the MOH's scope, with the exception of the HISMA model and its utilization of the SURCO.
For example, a shared beneficiary data base or an integrated health information system were not possible in
the region, and a cost-compensation scheme between the MOH and the CSS only worked out at the
HISMA level. Following is a description of main outputs achieved by this component:

(a). design and implementation of a new health services purchasing function in the MOH and CSS,
including the utilization of management agreements between financiers and providers, the design and
implementation of alternative transfer and payment systems, and the identification of users of the health
system.

A regional health plan in 1998 served as the initial baseline for the Pilot in the SMHR. This regional plan
integrated information from the MOH and the CSS, set common priorities and defined shared goals and
targets.   After the CSS walked away from active collaboration, the Project insisted in moving on.
Management agreements between the SMHR and its primary health centers were introduced and first
signed in 1999. These agreements defined priorities, set explicit performance targets and linked these to
available resources. Starting 2005, the MOH has decided to use this instrument at a nation-wide scale,
now defining responsibilities between it and the health regions.

A user identification system was introduced for the first time in the region starting 1999. This system
identified all families by income level (on a five-level scale) and defined an income-based cost recovery
scheme for users within the system. Health cards were provided to over 90 percent of the uninsured
inhabitants and became the bases for user fees at the HISMA. Technical assistance and training of
personnel was provided in all the above activities throughout project implementation. At the health centers,
however, the cost recovery scheme facilitated by the user cards has not been fully implemented. These
centers are autonomous in setting user fees, which have become an important source of additional revenues
critical for covering variable costs (in most of these centers, fixed costs, mainly personnel, can represent
over 90 percent of the total budget allocated by the Region). This situation, which may partially explain
the lesser than expected results observed (in terms of creating access barriers to the poorest people) could
have been further explored and addressed by the Project.

(b). strengthening the management of the SMHR through (i) the development and implementation of new
management techniques (establishment of norms and preparation of manuals for personnel management,
drug supply and quality control systems, a cost-compensation system and a public health surveillance
system), and (ii) the design and operation of a new integrated management information system.

The SMHR was strengthened to better organize, manage and supervise its services. A health information
system (SIES) was developed, implemented and is currently being used by the Region, providing organized
information on service demand and provision that no other health region in the country has. For example,
the SIES disaggregates epidemiologic and service delivery information by gender and age, enabling the
Region to make more precise diagnoses and tailor-made programs for the needs of its population. The
SIES is currently being "exported" to other health regions in the country interested in strengthening their
information systems. A consultancy on procurement, storage and distribution of pharmaceuticals and
medical supplies was also done.

Personnel issues were left unchanged during the Pilot Project. This seems to be another major variable
negatively affecting the SMHR model. Staff turnover subject to political shifts remained intense and at all
levels; selection and contracting of health workers continued being discretionary; distribution of resources


                                                    - 11 -

not always followed technical criteria nor need assessments, and service hours were left unchanged at the
primary health centers. The Project attempted to support the implementation of an incentives system for
health personnel. However, although the system was designed, it never came into effect, leading to
unfulfilled expectations among many professionals.

(c). strengthening and integration of the health services provider network in the selected region through
(i) the design and implementation of new management techniques, (ii) the implementation of the Primary
Health Care Model, and (iii) the rehabilitation and equipping of the primary health centers and regional
offices of the SMHR.

The implementation of a new primary health care model (known as the "Family, Community and
Environment Primary Health Care Model") was expected to a major contribution of the Project. This
model sought to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of health services in the region through the
sectorization of the population with assigned basic health teams to actively resolve their needs, stronger
health promotion and disease prevention interventions (many of these in the community itself), proper
allocation of resources throughout the network, adequate referral and counter referral systems, and strong
community participation. To complement this effort and subject to stringent eligibility requirements, the
eight primary health centers in the region were rehabilitated and/or strengthened with basic medical and
office equipment.

Simultaneously, the HISMA model was put in place to complement the improvement efforts at the primary
health level. The SURCO served as the needed link between the hospital and the lower complexity health
centers in the region. These included the CSS clinics, which did in fact benefit from the counter referrals
made by the HISMA. The Project supported the implementation of this innovative hospital management
arrangement in all possible dimensions.        In particular, it contributed with technical assistance on
governance issues (extended to two other hospitals undergoing similar board arrangements), strategic
planning, cost management, medical protocols, quality assurance programs, referral and counter referral
systems, social marketing and external performance evaluations.

Overall, the objective of implementing a coordinated health network in the Region with less duplication and
improved efficiency and effectiveness was partially achieved. The HISMA has been able to serve similar
shares of insured and uninsured population, and counts on a financial mechanism in place (CONSALUD)
to compensate its services. At the primary health centers level, although services have been maintained
opened to insured and uninsured citizens, a cost-compensation mechanism has not been agreed with the
CSS. Where things did not work out as expected was at the CSS level: its regional policlinic never joined
the network. Furthermore, in 2003, the CSS decided to buy a private hospital in the Region to exclusively
serve its beneficiaries and, to most extent, compete with the HISMA.

(d). strengthening community participation in the organization and delivery of health services, including
the existing local health committees, other relevant community organizations and new participatory
mechanisms.

Over 45 Family Committees in the region were trained and strengthened with the support of the Project.
The HISMA governing board, with ample civil society participation, also received technical assistance
from the Project. Gender oriented interventions were added to the Project in 2001 following a suggestion
made by the Bank. These led to specific programs in areas such as domestic violence, infant mortality and
ambulatory service utilization among men.

(e). the design and implementation of a social marketing campaign to help consensus building among


                                                    - 12 -

stakeholders with respect to the reform process.

This campaign, intended to "sell" the reform, including HISMA's contribution to the region and the system,
is currently underway. For different reasons, it only started late in 2004. This delay proved costly for the
reform and, in particular, for HISMA which had to deal with a growing opposition disseminating distorted
messages in the population (for example, that the HISMA services were more expensive or that health
centers were being privatized) and blocking referrals to its services. The ongoing campaign is trying to
revert these ideas and show the social benefits brought by the HISMA.

(f). the design and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system for the SMHR pilot.

A monitoring and evaluation system for the SMHR was not implemented. The Project did support various
external evaluations of the HISMA experience. This was not the case for the Regional model nor for the
basic health care model, which remained not evaluated in spite of various recommendations from the Bank
task managers (2003-2004) which underscored the importance of such effort.

The Project supported the presentation and discussion of the HISMA and SMHR models in numerous
national and international meetings, creating ­specially abroad- strong interest for this reform experience.
However, it must be noticed that the expected final evaluation of the Pilot was not done as envisioned. The
GOP, through the PCU director, has expressed its commitment to do this final evaluation with their own
resources during the coming months. This evaluation will include the results of an ongoing effort by a joint
MOH­CSS commission that is examining the processes and products supported by the Project in all its
components.

Achievement of this component, taking into consideration the impressive change brought by the HISMA
model and the effective development of key instruments, and in spite of the CSS irregular participation
throughout the Project, is partially satisfactory.

Component II. Institutional strengthening activities at the central level (MOH) to support the
implementation of the pilot, and development of a strategic partnership between the MOH and the
CSS.

(a). strengthening MOH through (i) the development and execution of a restructuring and reorganization
plan, including the rehabilitation of the MOH headquarters, (ii) the development of quality control and
accreditation systems, (iii) the development of a medical waste management plan, (iv) the development of
a management information system, (v) the preparation of legal and regulatory proposals necessary for
the reform process, and (vi) carrying out the corporate agreement between MOH and the CSS.

The central level of the MOH received technical assistance to better lead the reform process. Its organic
and functional structures were reformed and aligned with the functions-separation being introduced in the
system. Over 350 staff members were trained, computer equipment was bought and offices rehabilitated.
Legal regulations for the reform process were drafted and a complete proposal for advancing an
accreditation system throughout the country was put in place. Its initial step, the certification process for
public service provider institutions, was undertaken.       However, other expected products were not
completed. These included the burden of disease study and the cost-effectiveness of health interventions,
the design and implementation of an action plan for a management information system at the central level,
and the study and action plan on medical waste management in health facilities.

A corporate agreement between the MOH and the CSS was first signed in 1998, re-affirmed by the new


                                                   - 13 -

authorities in 2001 and maintained throughout project implementation. This corporate agreement was a
central reform piece as it defined the parameters for articulating the efforts of both entities. In particular,
the corporate agreement defined (i) how the joint regional planning would take place (joint planning teams,
shared regional plans with integrated investment programs, management agreements and shared
information systems) and (ii) the implementation of the primary health care model.

(b). development and implementation of a new financing mechanism, consolidating the implementation of
the cost-compensation system developed for the MOH and the CSS under the Bank's Economic Recovery
Loan (ERL), and conducting a feasibility study to introduce a health insurance scheme for the uninsured.


In 1998, CONSALUD was legally established as a new purchasing organization in Panama's health sector
that would articulate the MOH and the CSS. Designed to complement the reform process being tested in
the SMHR and the HISMA, its scope covered the whole country. Its design was sound and extremely
interesting: it brought together funding from the MOH and the CSS, it included on its board the
participation of the MEF and the Contraloría, and it was to become an active purchaser of publicly-funded
health services, setting expectations of quality, efficiency and effectiveness standards. As expected, strong
resistance against it arose from health personnel groups that saw a threat to the current status quo of
service arrangements.

In 1999, CONSALUD initiated activities negotiating the annual services plan with the HISMA board.
This experience continued successfully during the following years and is maintained today. This has been a
major experience for Panama's health sector, as it proves that mixed financing and provision of services is
possible and could lead to a more efficient and effective health sector. However, CONSALUD still needs
to overcome important obstacles in order to fully meet its expectations. Two are its major current
drawbacks: (i) it has not further developed its institutional capacity to perform as an active, intelligent
health services purchaser. In fact, it has never had more than two staff members, rarely meets, and has no
capacity at all to conduct appropriate medical and financial audits of the services being rendered in the
HISMA; and (ii) in part due to this weakness, but also expressing political doubts and resistances,
CONSALUD has acquired during the last two years an important debt with the HISMA (see Section 4.1).
This debt has placed the HISMA in a very difficulty financial situation, clearly not sustainable.

Achievement of this component is partially satisfactory, mainly due to the institutional weakness of
CONSALUD, that will need to be addressed in the near future.

Component III. Preparation activities to scale up the reform to other regions.

The Project successfully supported preparatory activities for scaling up the reform process in other regions.
The 2001 Corporate Agreement between the CSS and the MOH gave way to the conformation of Joint
Regional Planning Units in 13 out of the 14 health regions ­ the only region not included was the
Metropolitan area in Panama City. Health statistics were gathered and regional health plans bringing
together the efforts of both entities were agreed. The Project then decided to concentrate its support in the
regions of Chiriquí (380,000 people) and Panama Oeste (394,000 people). In these two regions, shared
efforts were done and instruments from the SMHR imported. These included aspects related to the primary
health care model, the SURCO, the SIES, and initial steps of the quality accreditation process.

Unfortunately, the CSS opposition to the reform slowed this process.            Nonetheless, various regions
continued with their interest in learning from the San Miguelito experience.           Likewise, the current
authorities in the MOH have ratified their interest in continuing this scaling-up process. For example, the


                                                      - 14 -

MOH is now actively considering alternatives for having an HISMA-like hospital in another region.

More significant, the MOH decided to extend the signing of management agreements with all other regions
for 2005. The drafted agreements currently under discussion are based in the experience and lessons
learned through the Pilot Project. Included in the agreements are: (i) the overriding goal of reaching a
unified (MOH-CSS) health system; (ii) expected service outputs, by specialty and level of complexity of
care, and the corresponding budget and resources; (iii) the region's responsibility to develop and implement
internal performance agreements with its provider institutions, follow a regional health plan that includes
the CSS, use the SURCO, increase social participation, conduct consumer satisfaction surveys, use
medical protocols and implement quality assurance systems, and conform basic health teams, among
others; (iv) an explicit monitoring and evaluation system, with indicators and goals, and (v) incentives to be
earned (in training, equipment and public certificates).

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

Table 4 summarizes the extent to which Project outputs expected for Components I, II and III in the PAD
and Loan Agreement were achieved.

                                                        Table 4
                                         Achievement of Project Outputs
                                              Components I, II and III

   Project Outputs          Key Performance Indicator                       Evaluation / Comments
                        Management agreements signed with      Partially satisfactory. HISMA has since 1999
                        the region's new hospital, the CSS     contracted its services with CONSALUD. Health
                        policlinics and the MOH health         centers   have     signed    annual  management
                        centers.                               agreements with the Region.        The CSS only
                                                               participated at the HISMA level.




Component I. Model
for           planning,
purchasing,  providing
and financing health
services developed and
operational   (in   the
SMHR).
                        Health card issued to 60% of the       Partially satisfactory. The SMHR categorized all
                        region's   insured   and    uninsured  the population in the region and issued health ID
                        population.                            cards to roughly 85% of the uninsured population.
                                                               Although HISMA uses these cards to define
                                                               co-payments, not all the primary health centers in
                                                               the region do so. Integration with CSS beneficiary
                                                               data bases is missing.
                        Region's integrated (MOH and CSS)      Unsatisfactory. Although the SMHR established
                        planning    and   information    unit  new planning and information mechanisms, the
                        established and operational.           CSS did not join this effort.
                        Region's integrated (MOH and CSS)      Partially  satisfactory.  Although   the  SMHR
                        health plan (priority needs and        worked out annual health plans, the CSS did not




                                                         - 15 -

                         interventions) produced.              fully join this effort.
                         Region's integrated (MOH and CSS)     Partially satisfactory. The SMHR developed,
                         management      information systems   implemented and is using a new management
                         established and operational.          information system (SIES). However, this system
                                                               does not include CSS activities in the region.
                         New management option for the San     Highly satisfactory. HISMA is fully operational
                         Miguelito Hospital established and    since 1999 and has shown increasing efficiency
                         operational.                          and quality year after year.
                         100% of the population covered by     Partially satisfactory. The new primary care
                         the new primary care model.           model was developed and implemented in the
                                                               region. However, some health centers have
                                                               achieved only partial implementation. The CSS
                                                               does not use this model.
                         80% of surface in direct service      Satisfactory. The eight MOH health centers in the
                         provision areas in 8 health centers   SMHR        were      subject  to     infrastructure
                         constructed / restored.               rehabilitation and/or received basic medical
                                                               equipment.
                        50    Community      Family   Councils Satisfactory. 45 community family councils were
                        established and operational.           conformed and trained in the Region; 8 health
                                                               committees also went through training.
                         Monitoring and evaluation system      Partially   satisfactory.  HISMA    has    a   fully
                         designed and operational.             operational monitoring and information system
                                                               and its performance has been subject of solid,
                                                               external evaluations. This has not been the case
                                                               for the regional experience nor its primary health
                                                               care model.
                         Proposal and plan for restructuring   Satisfactory. The restructuring of the MOH's
                         the MOH's central level.              central   level    (including  infrastructure   and
Component            II.                                       equipment) was planned and implemented. Over
Institutional                                                  350 staff members were trained.
strengthening    at the
MOH       central  level
initiated.
                         About 7 laws and regulations to       Satisfactory. Legal and regulatory drafts needed
                         implement the reform nationwide       to further expand the reform were produced at the
                         drafted.                              MOH.
                         Corporate agreement between the       Partially    satisfactory.   Although     corporate
                         MOH and the CSS in key strategic      agreements between both entities were signed in
                         areas signed.                         1998 and 2001, compliance by the CSS was
                                                               partial.
                         Cost-compensation system between      Partially satisfactory. CONSALUD performs with
                         the MOH and CSS operational           limitations compensating at the hospital level; no
                                                               compensation mechanism is in place at the
                                                               primary level at the SMHR (although other
                                                               regions in the country do compensate).
Component           III. Reform        management      units   Satisfactory. Regional health sector analyses and
Preparation          for implemented in at least three other   plans were elaborated in 13 out of 14 health
extension    of   health health regions.                       regions in the country. Joint regional plans and
reform to other health                                         units exist in two regions (Panama Oeste and
regions initiated.                                             Chiriquí).


Component IV. Project Management.

The Project Coordination Unit was installed in July, 2000, more than a year after the project effectiveness
date. This significant delay reflected the initial resistance by the new administration for launching the
Project. Once installed and in agreement with the Bank, the PCU followed a simple structure with two



                                                        - 16 -

units in charge of technical and financial matters; other administrative functions were provided by the
robust, already-existing PCU of the Rural Health Project.

Soon after initiating its work, the PCU made an agreement with UNDP to execute most of the Project
procurement activities. This decision sought to resolve cumbersome procurement procedures that were
threatening project execution with further delays. Since then, the PCU complied within the expected
timeframe with most of the products and deliverables agreed in the annual operation plans and with the
procurement and disbursements agreements. Moreover, the PCU made substantial efforts to accelerate the
implementation of the lagging project activities and thus succeeded in obtaining a first project extension. In
2002, in order to secure better access to the policy decisions level and to mainstream project outputs within
the MOH's operations, the PCU was re-assigned under the responsibility of the Service Provision
Directorate.

In addition to its administrative and financial tasks, the PCU had an active role in facilitating the
introduction of cutting-edge methodologies in the Project. This was the case with the gender approach
brought into project activities at the SMHR and the MOH; the exchange learning experiences and study
tours on health sector reform with other countries, and the support of knowledge management activities
(such as scientific conferences at the SMHR). Other activities carried out by the PCU included:
·       procurement of 6 audits of the Project Financial Statements. These audits provided feedback on
the Project's financial management processes which led to the implementation of improvement plans and
the strengthening of internal controls;
·       annual procurement audits done in 2001, 2002 and 2004. The results of these procurement audits
included the identification of improvement opportunities to strengthen the procurement unit and the
maintenance and control of relevant documentation, and
·       specific evaluations in some core technical areas, including auditing of the UNDP documentation.

The PCU suffered from two important restrictions. First, its staff suffered frequent changes due to political
changes.    For example, with the change of government in 2004, most of the PCU's technical and
administrative staff was removed. This situation forced a permanent learning process. The other situation
had to deal with its dependency on the Rural Health project PCU. Being a much smaller project and
lacking the intensity and features of an investment loan, it seemed that needed attention was not always
there.

The lack of implementation of systematic project monitoring and evaluation activities is a major weakness
in the performance of the PCU, in particular given the learning and innovation purpose of this loan.
Although useful external evaluations of the HISMA model were carried out, the PCU missed opportunities
to extract lessons learned from the pilot experience at the regional level that could have enhanced the
effectiveness of specific project activities and of the Project as a whole. Furthermore, the PCU did not
conduct a previously agreed mid-term evaluation of the Project, missing the benefits of this activity. The
final evaluation, crucial in a learning project as this one, is currently pending and will not be financed by
the loan.

Overall, achievement of this component is partially satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.



                                                     - 17 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Substantial. As a LIL, the Project resulted in a substantial institutional development impact, as follows:

·        The Project was instrumental in establishing new alternatives for the financing, purchasing,
organization and delivery of health services in Panama. Despite frequent political shifts during
implementation and the resistance from the CSS to further advance its cooperation agreement with the
MOH, all interviewed stakeholders ­including the same CSS authorities- agree that the experience in the
SMHR, the HISMA and CONSALUD are highly valuable for ongoing policy discussions and future health
sector reforms. In fact, current debates on sector policy do include the policy experiences and lessons
learned via this pilot.

·        The HISMA model has become a ground-breaking experience, not only within Panama but abroad.
This model, more than proving its own positive achievements, has enabled policy makers to be aware of,
compare and discuss the performance of the current traditional hospital management models in the MOH
and the CSS. With the existence of performance indicators such as those attained by the HISMA, the
discussion now is on how to achieve such standards in other publicly funded hospitals. Likewise, the
HISMA experience has attracted significant interest and attention from policy makers in other countries in
Latin America and the Caribbean.

·        CONSALUD, although not fully developed, already serves as a unique national experience on
MOH-CSS articulation, function separation and service purchasing. Although most probably the
CONSALUD model will undergo changes in the near future, its value as an input for structural reforms in
the health sector will persist. In any event, it or other similar financing / purchasing instruments will now
be designed and used by the MOH (and eventually the CSS) to improve efficiency and quality in the health
sector.

·        The Project helped strengthen capacity within the MOH, both at the central level and at the
SMHR. The new MOH structure now reflects the separation of functions, and planning and service
monitoring now take place with renewed strength at some regions. Unfortunately, intense and frequent
political shifts leading to major personnel turnover weakened the value added by the training financed by
the Project.

·        Specific management instruments developed and implemented by the Project are now being
disseminated to other regions, strengthening the institutional capacity at regional, hospital and health center
levels to plan, manage, implement and monitor health services. Regional planning approaches and
results-oriented agreements are now being used at various levels; and the SURCO and the SIES are being
extended to other health regions.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
None.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Collaboration with the government. Project implementation was seriously affected by administration
changes that impacted the degree of support and interest in the Project. Project implementation spanned
three national governments. During 1998 and the beginning of 1999, the MOH and the CSS were both
enthusiastic about the Project and actively supported it. However, implementation was slow in view of an


                                                      - 18 -

electoral year. With the 1999 change of national administration, the CSS modified its relation with the
MOH and the Project. Coordination among the two agencies became cumbersome and slow. Core
elements in the reform model being tested were affected. Such was the case of CONSALUD, which did not
finally develop its needed technical and managerial capacity due to lack of political support. In 2004, with
a second change of government, new authorities came in with the responsibility of managing the last year of
project implementation, including its final evaluation. The new authorities have manifested their interest in
various of the models and instruments designed and tested by the Pilot, and have included these in the new
National Health Plan.

Frequent changes of administration and political interference with managerial decisions. These frequent
changes of administration hampered project implementation. Changes occurred everywhere. During the
seven-year implementation period, there were four Ministers of Health and four General Directors of the
CSS; three Directors of the SMHR and four General Directors of HISMA (3 of these between 1999 and
2001); and three PCU directors. The World Bank added to this dynamic with four Task Managers during
the Project's cycle.

High rotation of staff took place at the MOH, not only at the central and regional levels but even at the
health centers and the HISMA. This eroded the value added by ongoing training supported by the Project
and forced the Bank to re-start policy dialogue in the middle of project implementation. On different
occasions, a highly politicized environment placed project activities at risk of being derailed. Remedial
actions needed to be and were identified and agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.

Counterpart funding. Although Project preparation had identified this as a potential risk for project
implementation and had taken actions to mitigate it (for example, the creation of a revolving account as an
effectiveness condition for the loan), lack of enough counterpart funds in fact became a bottleneck during
the first two years of the Project. Afterwards, this situation was resolved and did not happen again.
Moreover, preliminary final accounting is revealing that the total counterpart funding of the Project
exceeded what originally had been estimated in the PAD.

Resistance / opposition by interest groups. The models being tested at the SMHR and the HISMA were
quickly seen as threats by various interest groups in the health sector. In particular, the representatives of
physician groups and other health personnel unions saw the HISMA model and CONSALUD as
privatization attempts that would erode their current work status and privileges. The social marketing
campaign, intended to address this resistance and help build consensus, came in late due to managerial
delays. Likewise, a stronger effort in the dissemination and public debate of the positive evaluations of the
models could have helped confront this opposition.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agency was the MOH. The CSS had not been included as an implementing agency
precisely to avoid rigidities and bottlenecks in project implementation.      However, looking back, this
decision most probably aggravated, instead of alleviating, the subsequent CSS reluctance to actively
support most of the Project's activities. Meanwhile, the MOH suffered the above-mentioned circumstances
that negatively impacted the Project (such as frequent changes of administration and high personnel
rotation).

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total cost of the Project, as estimated in the PAD, was US $6.03 million, out of which US $4.3 million
(71 percent) was funded through the World Bank's loan and the remaining US $1.73 million (29 percent)
through the National Treasury. About US $0.39 million of the committed funds (representing 6 percent of



                                                    - 19 -

the total cost and 9 percent of the loan) remained undisbursed at the time of writing this ICR and are in the
process of being cancelled.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely. The sustainability of the Project is rated as likely, given the progress made in positioning and/or
institutionalizing critical policy changes, models and instruments tested through this learning and
innovation process.

The new Government is committed to continue its support to the HISMA and SMHR models. More
important, it is actively looking at the lessons learned and the instruments developed in this experience as
valuable inputs for the development of its nationwide health sector strategy. Such strategy has reaffirmed
the importance of the Project's original policy objective: the need to move towards an integrated health
system, articulating in an initial phase the efforts of the MOH and the CSS.

However, both the HISMA and CONSALUD will require close vigilance, as they are models currently
subject to intense pressure and opposition from different stakeholders. In the case of the HISMA, the
unsustainable financial situation created by the CSS must be resolved. In the case of CONSALUD, its
institutional weakness and limited scope of action will need to be addressed. Most probably, in both cases,
the models as defined today will suffer further transformations and reforms. This is natural in a reform
process and should not be perceived as a failure of the Pilot. Rather, what will be important is to evaluate
if the evolving instruments and models will further contribute to enrich policy discussions and improve the
performance of the country's health sector, as the original ones seem to have done.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Section 6.1 explains broadly the transition arrangement to regular operations. More specifically, the
SMHR model has minimal recurrent costs that should pose no major difficulty for the region to maintain.
The extension of specific instruments (for example, the SIES, the primary health care model or the
SURCO) to other regions will need some additional financing, but not to an extent to be considered
unmanageable under normal circumstances.

A much more difficult question relates to the extension of the HISMA model to other hospitals in the
country. Although some particular opportunities may appear here or there, it is highly improbable that the
HISMA model may be copied and pasted in another institution. Rather, the core elements behind its
success ­for example, the alignment of resources with performance, the autonomous management
responsibility and the focus on quality and consumer satisfaction- must be the objectives of gradual
replication efforts elsewhere.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the Project was
satisfactory. The identification process correctly focused on critical gaps and opportunities for reform
interventions in Panama's health sector. It identified a narrowed window of opportunity for a real learning
and innovation process. And it delivered on time. The Project's consistency with the GOP's development
priorities and the Bank's CAS was solid. In addition, the Bank acknowledged potential risks with clarity
and tried to work out mitigating actions. Technical assistance brought in state-of-the-art expertise into



                                                      - 20 -

project design, with lessons learned from reforms in other countries, providing for flexibility and
responsiveness to local needs. During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy
of project design in all major relevant aspects. Investments in infrastructure and equipment were focused,
narrowed and conditioned to proper requirements. The Bank had a consistently good working relationship
with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal.

As discussed in section 3.1, the weak engagement of the CSS may have been aggravated by project design.
Precisely trying to secure project execution, the design gave all the implementation control and direct
incentives to the MOH's central and regional levels. This was not the case at all for the CSS, who would
only indirectly benefit from some of the loan activities. Nonetheless, it was expected that it would actively
participate in supporting key project activities. Evidently, this was not the case. And trying to correct this
situation during project implementation proved to be extremely difficult for all.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory.    The Bank's performance during the implementation of the Project was satisfactory.
Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated and the Project was adequately supervised and closely
monitored. Over the seven years of project implementation, there were 18 supervision missions, with an
average of 3 missions per year during the period 1999-2000, when the Project was confronting
implementation obstacles and delays. The relationship with the Borrower was cordial and productive,
although frequent changes of interlocutors at both sides made things difficult. Bank teams included
specialists in health economics, public health, Bank operations, financial management, and procurement.
External consultants were used to provide support on specific aspects of project components, including the
sensible and highly visible evaluation of the HISMA model. However, the emphasis the Bank placed into
having project outputs delivered on time may have contributed to the PCU becoming highly dependent on
working with just a short group of consultants, most of them international, individual consultants.

Aide-memoires were regularly prepared and usually signed. In them, outstanding issues were highlighted
and corrective actions agreed. These alerted the MOH and the PCU to problems with project execution and
facilitated remedies in conformity with Bank procedures. For example, during 1999 (the first year of
project execution), an unsatisfactory rating flagged difficulties with counterpart funds that affected
implementation. The Project Status Reports (PSRs) realistically rated the performance of the Project in
terms of achievement of development objectives and project implementation. When delays occurred, the
Bank's task team was able to handle these successfully in most of the cases. For example, when the new
administration in 1999 delayed the launching of the Project, the Bank team set tighter deadlines for the
fulfillment of agreements with the PCU, and made clear the implications of persisting delays. The Bank
was also flexible enough to grant two closing extensions of the loan, thus responding to the reassured
commitment and efforts made by the PCU (and the MOH) to successfully complete its implementation.
The quality of advice and the follow-up on agreed actions were adequate, and credit covenants and
remedies were enforced effectively. However, given the learning nature of the Project, Bank's supervision
should have further insisted on having the PCU conduct systematic monitoring and evaluation activities of
the models tested.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during Project preparation, appraisal and
implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance during the preparation of the Project was satisfactory. The



                                                    - 21 -

Borrower displayed the required level of commitment to project objectives and covered with adequacy the
design of all major aspects. The Borrower gave full priority to the Project during preparation: for example,
it approved two laws setting the legal stage needed for project implementation. The policy negotiations
leading to the enactment of these laws were even summarized in a dissemination note, then presented in a
Bank's technical workshop. The MOH and the CSS both had strong technical teams in place for the
implementation of the Project. The MEF participated in project design and made a firm commitment to
securing needed financing. Conditions set forth for effectiveness were resolved on a timely and proper way.
Government officials and staff of the implementing agencies at the central, regional, and local levels
worked closely with the Bank's project team on a continual basis, with full cooperation and enthusiasm.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Unsatisfactory.      The Government's implementation performance was, overall, unsatisfactory.             Its
commitment with the Pilot throughout implementation shifted affecting the extent of key development
objectives.     After demonstrating strong ownership during project preparation, the MOH's new
administration expressed reluctance to carry out the Project; the CSS position not to collaborate was even
more evident. It took more than a year for the MOH to set the PCU and start executing project activities.
At moments, other more visible and larger projects (like the Rural Health Project) seemed to capture all the
best attention and efforts from the MOH. Nevertheless, the administration complied with all the actions set
forth by the Bank to get the project extended. The MOH was responsive to take corrective measures in
dealing with outstanding operational issues as implementation progressed. Yet, the MOH could have
further advanced to develop CONSALUD's institutional capacity, and to guarantee a better performance at
the regional level. Also, the government could have sought for additional mechanisms, such as policy
negotiations or implementation of new institutional arrangements, to engage the CSS in the project and to
solve other critical bottlenecks that impeded the launch and expansion of the health sector reform.

Although it took some time for the PCU to follow the procurement guidelines, appropriate levels of review
and approval were usually in place, financial accountability and close follow-up was observed, and
expenditures were duly authorized before they were incurred. Project documentation was maintained
properly for periodic review and annual external audits gave favorable conclusions on project management.
However, political interference with technical and managerial decisions within the Project sometimes
became an issue that had to be addressed.         The PCU personnel changed frequently, contributing to
implementation problems and delays.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory.     The performance of the MOH and its PCU were, overall, satisfactory (here, again, a
marginally satisfactory rating would better fit). After overcoming the project's first year halt, the PCU
complied within the expected timeframe with most of the products and deliverables agreed in the annual
operation plans. Also, the PCU was organized and effective in dealing with procurement, disbursement,
and in maintaining proper records of the Project. It was receptive to the Bank's advice and highly
collaborative. However, its performance in terms of progress reports and monitoring of indicators was not
as strong. More critical, the committed mid-term and final evaluations of the Project did not take place (the
latter is said to be soon undertaken).

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory.     The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory (although a marginally
satisfactory rating would better capture the overall performance during the Project's extension).

8. Lessons Learned

As a learning and innovation loan, the Project contributed with important specific experiences that enrich


                                                     - 22 -

Panama's health sector. In a broader dimension, it also contributes with useful elements to the strategic
discussions on how to best support a health sector reform process in the region. Following is a discussion
of the main lessons learned from the Project:

·        Pilots are useful but, can they really be scaled up? And, if not, are they still useful? The
rationale behind pilot projects remains strong in the midst of health sectors with complex political economy
structures and weak institutional capacity: pilot projects offer feasible opportunities for developing
instruments and testing models. However, the bottom line question remains there: is it feasible to then
extend the reform lessons to the rest of the country, in particular in a context subject to intense political
shifts? How to assure this, if at all? The experience with this Pilot Project points out in the direction that
scaling-up is always much more difficult than originally envisioned. Nonetheless, it also suggests that its
benefits and lessons learned are there to stay and may come out as valuable and useful reform elements at
any moment in the future.

·        The timing of a health project that seeks to test reform elements is particularly sensible, and not
always perfectly manageable. On one hand, real sector changes are only possible when political and
technical leadership is in place. This was the case for this project before effectiveness. In addition, specific
circumstances ­like the opening of HISMA- are rare opportunities that can not be ignored. However, this
narrow window of reform opportunity forced the beginning of implementation to take place precisely in the
middle of an electoral year, with political changes occurring soon after and seriously affecting the rhythm
and results of the reform process thereafter. Could the timing have been arranged differently to reduce this
risk?

·        Incentives remain a critical variable in order to guarantee results. The opposing results obtained
by the HISMA and the Region models regarding expected performance indicators seem to have much to do
with incentives. While the HISMA model has clear incentives inserted in its structure and operation
(resources and potential for growth are subject to the volume, efficiency and quality of services produced),
the Region as a whole had no changes in incentives linked to its performance. Health centers maintained
their traditional "functioning logic", where performance evaluation tied to incentives was practically
nonexistent. Hence, the opposite results should come as no surprise. The same lesson comes out after
examining the conflicting relation between the CSS and the Project. A more in-depth institutional analysis
at the time of design would probably have identified the need for further incentives and leverages for
securing the CSS active participation throughout implementation.

·        Performance evaluations are critical, even more in learning efforts. In a sector traditionally
resistant to change and characterized by intense conflicting interests and political volatility, the existence of
solid, technical performance evaluations becomes a critical variable for developing changes and advancing
reforms. The HISMA model is good example: in spite of intense opposition and repeated attacks, it has
stand by its own thanks to the merits found by three external performance evaluations. The opposite
situation was also present in this project. In absence of evaluations, the efforts invested in the SMHR are
much more difficult to defend.

·        Consensus building is critical, but requires proper instruments with the correct timing. Solid
evaluations and well-designed communication strategies are definitely required to construct the support
platform needed for health sector reforms. But the timing for both is crucial. An early evaluation of the
HISMA model served to protect it during its initial years of functioning. In contrast, the delayed launching
of a social marketing campaign gave space to distorted messages and opposition that made HISMA's
efforts much more difficult.



                                                     - 23 -

·        Human resources and labor-related issues remain a major bottleneck for health sector reform
and can not be underestimated. Any health sector reform in the region attempting to achieve improved
efficiency, equity and/or quality of health services must take into consideration from its beginning the need
to address human resources issues. This was the case in the HISMA model but not so for the regional
efforts. The discrepancy in the results between one and the other are there to remind all of the importance
of this sector dimension.

·        Two or more simultaneous projects can compete with each other, more when their logic is so
different and competing from a political stand point. Here, the Rural Health Project, with the immediate
satisfaction of the inauguration of water and sanitation pipelines, became more attractive to the MOH than
a conflicting, longer-term, health reform process. This possible conflict may partially explain delays and
difficulties in the implementation of the Project, that clearly exceeded any benefit reached from managerial
economies of scale.

·        How to strengthen institutional capacity remains a dilemma. High personnel rotation in public
institutions erodes the effectiveness of training. Could a project implementation scheme supported more
through local institutions have served here better in terms of institutional capacity building?

·        Persistence is fundamental for a learning experience to take place. The first months and even
years of project implementation where not easy at all for all those involved with this project. At this
moment in time, the Bank could have opted to cancel the loan. Rather, it insisted in helping to make it
feasible. Today, this question can be asked: what would have happened in absence of this Project? Most
probably, Panama's health sector would have continued its inertia, with limited learning experiences to feed
a needed reform process. Thanks to the persistence from all those involved, today the scenery is quite
different, as the country's health sector has valuable experiences and instruments with which to face its
future.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
    Following are the comments provided by the Borrower to this ICR (April, 2005). The Borrower is
    currently conducting a Final Evaluation Report of the Project. This report will not be ready before the
    conclusion of the ICR.




                                    Borrower's Comments - Translation

                                 MINISTERIO DE SALUD DE PANAMA
                    PROYECTO PILOTO DE REFORMAS DEL SECTOR SALUD
                                            INFORME DE CIERRE

INTRODUCCION

El Gobierno de Panamá decide como estrategia gubernamental y como una de las metas de desarrollo para
el quinquenio 1994 ­ 1999, reducir la pobreza teniendo como eje estratégico la mejora en la equidad y
eficiencia social del gasto, a través de programas de Reforma Sectorial. Dentro del contexto estratégico se
planteó la inequidad en el acceso, uso y cobertura de los servicios de salud, la ineficiencia del gasto o



                                                     - 24 -

inversión en salud, la baja calidad de los servicios y sobre todo un financiamiento insostenible, lo que
enfrentó a las autoridades al diseño de ¿cómo hacer un uso más eficiente y efectivo de los recursos?

Se decidió hacer énfasis en la protección social de los grupos poblacionales vulnerables, en la
descentralización de la toma de decisiones y como opción estratégica se suscribió un convenio de préstamo
en 1998 con el Banco Mundial para ejecutar un Proyecto Piloto de Reformas de la Red Pública de
Servicios de Atención de Salud de Panamá, cuyo pilotaje se realizó en la Región de Salud de San
Miguelito, Las Cumbres y Chilibre, un área urbano marginal del país.

OBJETIVOS DEL PROYECTO

·       Contribuir a la estrategia de salud del Gobierno de Panamá.
·       Mejorar la eficiencia del gasto en salud y mejorar la accesibilidad al uso de los servicios por los
grupos poblacionales más pobres.
·       Implementar un Nuevo Modelo de Organización, Provisión y Financiamiento de los servicios de
salud en la Región de Salud de San Miguelito (RSSM), como fase inicial.

DISEÑO DEL PROYECTO

El tema de las reformas en salud fue novedoso para nuestro país, el diseño se percibió un tanto complejo y
ambicioso, lo que comprometía la probabilidad de alcanzar los objetivos desde el inicio del proyecto. Las
reformas en salud planteaban un proceso orientado a introducir cambios, que involucraban nuevas formas
de hacer las cosas para mejorar la eficiencia, eficacia, equidad y calidad de los servicios de salud que se
brindan a la población. Esos nuevos procedimientos variaron la forma tradicional en que se había estado
laborando en salud para dar paso a una nueva organización y provisión de los servicios de salud, lo que
generó resistencias y rechazos por parte de algunos funcionarios, sobre todo gremialistas del sector salud.

Este proyecto conlleva cambio de actitudes y comportamientos, los cambios de conducta no se miden a
corto plazo, además la reingeniería mental es intangible por lo que valorarlo y ejecutarlo es difícil.

El proyecto contó en el MINSA con una Dirección de Planificación en Salud inicialmente, una Dirección de
Políticas de Salud posteriormente y, finalmente, una Dirección General de Proyectos, a la cual estaba
adscrita la Unidad Coordinadora de Proyectos (UCP) y la Coordinación Técnica del Proyecto Piloto de
Reformas del Sector Salud (PPRSS), como agencias de implementación institucional.

A niveles internos gubernamentales y ministeriales los procedimientos administrativos eran pesados,
complejos y demorados, a nivel externo el BM establece sus normas y procedimientos administrativos
ineludibles, lo que en conjunto afectó la implantación del proyecto desde su inicio, lo que ocasionó que se
realizara un convenio con el Programa de las Naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo (PNUD) para agilizar los
procedimientos administrativos y poder ejecutar el proyecto en su totalidad.

Es importante hacer mención que las Políticas Públicas del país para el año 1998 establecían la Reforma y
Modernización del Estado Panameño, las Políticas Públicas del período de gestión siguiente establecían las
reformas institucionales, por lo que ha existido consistencia y continuidad, lo que ha sido clave como
marco referencial para el PPRSS.

COMPONENTES




                                                   - 25 -

COMPONENTE I. IMPLEMENTACIÓN DE UN NUEVO MODELO DE ORGANIZACIÓN,
FINANCIAMIENTO Y PROVISIÓN DE SERVICIOS DE SALUD EN SAN MIGUELITO.

Hoy día beneficia a una población objetivo de 459,618 habitantes. El Componente I consta de seis (6) sub
componentes:

Sub Componente 1. Fortalecimiento de la integración MINSA / CSS para la implantación del Nuevo
Modelo de Gestión del Hospital Integrado San Miguel Arcángel (HISMA).
Incluye el fortalecimiento de la integración MINSA / CSS para la implantación del Nuevo Modelo de
Gestión del Hospital Integrado San Miguel Arcángel (HISMA), se crea la entidad compradora de servicios,
Coordinadora Nacional de la Salud (CONSALUD), se realizan los arreglos legales y operativos, para la
realización de transferencias financieras y se diseñan los mecanismos de pago. No se logra el desarrollo
técnico y operativo de CONSALUD, además se crea el patronato del HISMA.

Se crea la Unidad de Planificación e Información Conjunta MINSA / CSS para la RSSM, la cual revisa las
estadísticas, organiza y mejora el sistema de información y realiza un análisis de situación de salud
conjunto y un Plan Regional Estratégico Integrado Conjunto MINSA / CSS (1998), experiencia novedosa
para la RSSM.

Se trabaja en la identificación de la población usuaria de los servicios de salud de la RSSM, la cual se
encuentra sectorizada en cinco (5) niveles, según situación socio económica, el 85% de la población cuenta
con su carné que lo identifica como usuarios de los servicios de salud de la RSSM; es difícil lograr la
carnetización total de la población, debido a la constante migración que se da en nuestro país hacia las
áreas urbano ­ marginales.

Sub Componente 2. Fortalecimiento de la Capacitación Gerencial en la RSSM.
Incluye el fortalecimiento de la capacitación gerencial en la RSSM. Inicialmente todas las capacitaciones
fueron conjuntas MINSA / CSS; los temas fueron gerenciales, administrativos, procedimientos como:
nuevas técnicas gerenciales, contratación de recurso humano, compensación de costos, facturación, costo
20, sistema de información gerencial, informática, etc.

Sub Componente 3. Fortalecimiento de la Red de Servicios de la RSSM.
Incluye el fortalecimiento de la red de servicios de la RSSM, se implanta el Nuevo Modelo de Atención
Primaria, Familiar Comunitario y Ambiental, se revisan, elaboran, negocian e implantan los compromisos
de gestión en tres (3) centros de salud en el año 1999 y en todos los (8) centros de salud posteriormente. Se
destinan recursos para mejoras, rehabilitación y equipamiento médico y administrativo de los centros de
salud, a pesar de que el préstamo es de aprendizaje e innovación.

Sub Componente 4. Incremento de la Participación Social y Comunitaria.
Incluye el incremento de la participación social y comunitaria. Se procuró una alta representación de la
sociedad civil en el patronato del HISMA, se conformaron los Consejos de Salud Familiares en 45 sectores,
uno en cada zona de responsabilidad, (en el convenio se plantearon 70).

Sub Componente 5. Desarrollo e Implantación de un sistema de Monitoreo y Evaluación.
Incluye el desarrollo e implantación de un sistema de monitoreo y evaluación. Se realizó un estudio inicial
del HISMA y se comparó con dos (2) hospitales similares, uno gestionado por el MINSA y el otro por la
CSS. Como evaluación intermedia, se realiza otro estudio del HISMA y se compara sus indicadores con
seis (6) hospitales regionales de segundo nivel, evidenciando la eficiencia del HISMA en ambos estudios.




                                                    - 26 -

En la RSSM, se utiliza el Análisis de Situación de Salud y el Plan Estratégico Integrado MINSA ­ CSS
(1998) como línea base. Posteriormente, en otro estudio, se revisa el Modelo de Atención Primaria
Familiar, Comunitario y Ambiental, los compromisos de gestión, el modelo de gestión, organización de los
servicios de salud en la RSSM y se realizan recomendaciones.

Sub Componente 6. Diseño y Ejecución de una Campaña de Mercadeo Social.
Incluye el diseño y la ejecución de una Campaña de Mercadeo Social, la cual consideramos debió
desarrollarse durante los años 2002 ­ 2003, ya que el proyecto podía mostrar aspectos tangibles para ese
momento. La campaña inició en mayo del 2004; sin embargo, consideramos que ha sido muy positiva y
que la población en general ha tenido acceso a conocer los indicadores hospitalarios del HISMA en un
lenguaje muy popular, además de aspectos diferentes del PPRSS.

COMPONENTE          II.     FORTALECIMIENTO           DEL    NIVEL      CENTRAL        Y   LA     ALIANZA
ESTRATÉGICA MINSA / CSS.

Se elabora y se firma el II Convenio de Coordinación Interinstitucional MINSA / CSS, en donde se crean
comisiones y sub comisiones nacionales para dar seguimiento, a los aspectos básicos de las reformas; se
conviene la creación de 14 unidades de planificación e información, las cuales revisaron su sistema de
información y elaboraron su análisis de situación de salud conjunto MINSA / CSS. De las 14 regiones del
país, solamente la Región Metropolitana de Salud no entregó el documento final de ASIS, a pesar de
haberlo elaborado y trabajado.

Se recomendó la elaboración de Planes Regionales Integrados, siendo elaborados solamente por tres (3)
regions: Panamá Oeste, Chiriquí y San Miguelito.         Se elabora el documento Lineamientos para la
Reorganización de la Red de Servicios el cual plantea la necesidad de continuar en el resto de las regiones
del país la experiencia de San Miguelito.

Se capacita sobre el PPRSS a las 14 regiones del país y se aprovechan todos los escenarios como
oportunidades para divulgar objetivos, avances, logros, limitantes y temas pendientes del PPRSS, nacional
e internacionalmente.

Se involucra a las Direcciones Nacionales de Políticas y de Provisión de Servicios en aspectos de modelos
de gestión, compromisos de gestión, contratos programas, indicadores de calidad y a cada Dirección
Nacional como contraparte de consultorías de competencia.

Se financian capacitaciones sobre gestión y economía de la salud para los funcionarios del nivel central,
directivos de los niveles regionales y locales.

Se realizan mejoras físicas a la UCP y se dota de equipo de oficina.

COMPONENTE III. ACTIVIDADES PREPARATORIAS PARA EL PROCESO DE REFORMA EN
OTRAS REGIONES.

Se realiza la adecuación orgánica y funcional que se inició en la RSSM, posteriormente en el nivel nacional
y finalmente en el resto de las regiones del país.

Como se realizan los análisis de situación de salud, se identifican y se priorizan los principales problemas
de salud en las 14 regiones del país. Las regiones de Panamá Oeste y de Chiriquí son las que más avanzan
en materia de modelo de gestión y de atención.


                                                   - 27 -

Se realizan las capacitaciones correspondientes sobre los aspectos básicos de la reforma y la experiencia de
la RSSM.

COMPONENTE IV. FINANCIAMIENTO DE LOS COSTOS ADMINISTRATIVOS Y FINANCIEROS
DE LA UCP.

Este componente financió los costos administrativos y operativos tanto de la UCP como de la RSSM. Este
componente incluyó: el mantenimiento de equipo de computación, de oficina y médico y de los vehículos
adquiridos bajo el proyecto, suministros de oficina y pequeñas cantidades de servicios de imprenta en la
UCP, nivel central y la Dirección Regional de San Miguelito.

IMPLEMENTACIÓN DEL PROYECTO

El PPRSS tenía como compromiso el apoyo y el acompañamiento del desarrollo de las políticas y
estrategias de salud 2000 ­ 2004 definidas para ese período. Por tal razón se apoyó cada política
(conceptual y teóricamente) con consultorías que permitieron avanzar en diferentes temas contemplados en
el convenio de préstamo.

Política 1                                        PPRSS
n        Visión de salud 2020 gestión en salud.   n       Identificación del concepto básico de la reforma
                                                  y de los modelos de gestión y atención.
Política 2                                       n        Adecuación y      perfeccionamiento de la reforma
n        Renovación de la estrategia Atención    sectorial y sus procesos.
Primaria en Salud.

Política 3                                       n        Consolidado de todas las leyes instrumentos y
n        Perfeccionar el marco regulatorio       reglamentos legales.
        en  salud.                               n        Se trabajó sobre las bases para la
                                                 acreditación de instalaciones de salud.

Política 4                                       n        Definir nuevas formas de financiamiento.
n        Mejorar el acceso a los servicios.      n        Contrataciones de organismos no
                                                 gubernamentales para mejorar.
                                                 n        Coberturas en salud.
Política 5                                       n        Contrataciones de equipos de salud itinerantes
n        Estado Nutricional.                     que distribuyen cremas nutritivas.
                                                 n        Capacitación a la población sobre sus necesidades
                                                 nutricionales.
Política 6                                       n        Problemas contemplados como prioritarios en el
n        Vigilancia Ambiental,      ambientes    Plan Regional con intervenciones específicas.
sanos, vectores, agua potable, crónicas.
Política 7                                       n        Se realizan 33 consultorías diferentes en el
n        Investigaciones / Estudios.             PPRSS para apoyar la toma de decisiones y mejorar la
                                                 gestión en salud.
Política 8                                       n        En el Modelo de Atención Primaria Familiar,
n        Fortalecer Promoción de la Salud.       Comunitario y Ambiental se fortalece el auto cuidado de la
                                                 salud individual, familiar, comunitaria y ambiental.
Política 9                                       n        Reorganización de la red de servicios sistema de
n        Modernizar la Red Pública de Servicios  referencia y contrarreferencia funcional.




                                                  - 28 -

de Salud.                                          n        Sectorización de los Servicios.
                                                   n        Modelo de gestión del HISMA.
Política 10                                        n        Formulación e implementación del protocolo de
n        Mejorar la capacidad del sistema.         atención a la embarazada en la RSSM.
                                                   n        Formulación e implantación de protocolos para
                                                   todos los servicios clínicos del HISMA.
Política 11                                        n        Se apoya los programas de calidad, como las
n        Mejoramiento continuo de la calidad.      auditorias de expedientes, adecuación de protocolos,
                                                   elaboración de estándares de habilitación y certificación.
Política 12                                        n        Se apoya al desarrollo de procesos de certificación
n        Reforzar gestión y desarrollo de          y recertificación; elaboración de un sistema de incentivos.
recursos humanos.
Política 13                                        n        Aplicación de encuestas de percepción de
n        Adecuar procesos de gestión.              usuarios.
                                                   n        Se apoya el desarrollo del sistema de información
                                                   gerencial.
Política 14                                        n        Se focaliza el gasto en salud en problemas
n        Mejorar la eficiencia de la gestión de    sanitarios prioritarios;
los servicios de salud.                            n        Se apoyan los procesos de contabilidad de costos.
Política 15                                        n        Coordinación con otras agencias de cooperación
n        Consolidar la cooperación Técnica         técnica. OPS, BID.
Internacional.



PRINCIPALES           FACTORES          QUE    AFECTARON           LA     IMPLEMENTACIÓN               DE     LA
EXPERIENCIA

Desde el inicio del PPRSS hasta hoy día, hemos contado con cuatro ministros/as de salud, cinco Directores
Regionales en San Miguelito, cuatro Directores Ejecutivos del HISMA, cuatro Directores de la CSS, tres
cambios en la designación del gerente del proyecto por parte del Banco Mundial, además de demoras
iniciales en la coordinación efectiva entre el coordinador técnico del PPRSS y el Director de la UCP. Cada
cambio genera un proceso de adaptación a los estilos de gestión y un impas en las acciones desarrolladas,
las cuales son evaluadas y validadas inicialmente para posteriormente darle continuidad a las actividades
pendientes.

A pesar de la creación por ley de la entidad compradora CONSALUD, no se desarrolla técnica y
operativamente, lo que limita el seguimiento técnico al contrato ­ programa con el patronato del HISMA y
se dedican solo a transferencias financieras y trámites de pagos.

A pesar de la existencia de dos convenios de Coordinación Interinstitucional MINSA / CSS, la CSS decide
retirarse del trabajo conjunto por lo que el MINSA avanza solo en el PPRSS.

Actualmente existe una mora económica de cinco meses para con el HISMA, lo que limita su
funcionamiento y afecta el Modelo de Gestión. La eficiencia del HISMA ha sido demostrada con estudios
y evidencia científica; si la mora económica continua, será muy difícil mantener un modelo de gestión que
ha demostrado eficiencia.

RESULTADOS

Se reconoce que tanto en la RSSM, como en el HISMA, se han desarrollado instrumentos y procesos que



                                                     - 29 -

permiten un trabajo más ordenado, organizado y planificado. Desde diciembre del año 1998, en que el
HISMA abre sus puertas, hasta hoy día, ha existido una contención del gasto hospitalario y un uso más
eficiente de los recursos, situación que no se da en ningún otro hospital del país.

La RSSM hoy día cuenta con un Modelo Familiar, Comunitario y Ambiental, un área geográfica
poblacional sectorizada, equipos básicos de salud y equipos complementarios (especialistas y técnicos),
consejos de salud familiares, e instrumentos como: compromisos de gestión con cartera de servicios
diferenciados, mejoras en el sistema de información, sistema de referencias y contrarreferencias funcional,
protocolo de atención a la embarazada y para cada uno de los servicios del HISMA, un Análisis de
Situación de Salud con enfoque de género, un Plan Estratégico Integrado con identificación, priorización de
problemas y definición de estrategias de intervención basadas en evidencia científica.

Se han fortalecido las capacidades en materia de gestión: el HISMA ha avanzado en el tema de calidad y
existen dos departamentos listos para la certificación de normas ISO.

Una experiencia muy positiva ha sido trabajar con el Programa de Género e Innovación para América
Latina PROGENIAL desde el año 2000, quienes han apoyado el proyecto con un consultor nacional
experto en género lo que ha permitido realizar un Análisis de Situación con perspectiva de género e
identificar de qué enferman y de qué mueren los niños, niñas, jóvenes, hombres y mujeres de los diferentes
grupos poblacionales de la RSSM. Los resultados han sido incorporados en la Campaña de Mercado
Social del PPRSS, aspectos que llaman poderosamente la atención en grupos poblacionales específicos, así
mismo las orientaciones e intervenciones son focalizadas.

DESEMPEÑO DEL PRESTATARIO

A pesar de los inconvenientes mencionados anteriormente y las limitantes, el desempeño general del
prestatario ha sido satisfactorio. Se ha aprendido muchísimo de esta experiencia piloto inicial, esperamos
que en la formulación del nuevo convenio se incorporen los ajustes que se consideren necesarios realizar.

La experiencia de Panamá en materia de reformas es reconocida internacionalmente. La RSSM da la cara
por el país; el éxito de la eficiencia del HISMA ha evidenciado las debilidades de nuestro sector salud.

La UCP y la oficina del PPRSS han mantenido una coordinación estrecha con el HISMA y con la RSSM
en donde se piloteaba el proyecto.

Los cambios en el MINSA, en la CSS, y en los niveles regionales y locales ocasionaron mucho desgaste a
los técnicos de la oficina del PPRSS. Era iniciar nuevamente, con explicación de aspectos no tangibles,
que ocasionan rechazo y resistencia inicialmente hasta que se logran comprender la importancia de los
cambios y el beneficio de éstos.

LECCIONES APRENDIDAS

·        El tema de las reformas sectoriales es un desafío para toda gestión gubernamental, hay que asumir
con mucha responsabilidad ese desafío, se deberá definir claramente el camino a seguir.

·        El Banco Mundial ha contribuido en la provisión de expertos internacionales y su experiencia en
otros países en donde se han implementado reformas sectoriales. Dicha asistencia permitió una mejor
implementación del proyecto.



                                                     - 30 -

·       El desarrollo de la capacidad y pertenencia institucional ha sido una estrategia clave. Además, se
ha promovido y financiado la asistencia de funcionarios de salud del gobierno de nuestro país a talleres y
cursos de capacitación internacionalmente.

DESEMPEÑO DEL BANCO MUNDIAL

Inicialmente hubo una excelente fluidez, armonía y efectividad en las relaciones y en la calidad del apoyo
técnico y administrativo. El acompañamiento que el equipo técnico del BM proporcionó con su ayuda fue
oportuno y legítimo durante las misiones y las comunicaciones vía telefónica ó correo electrónico. Se
desarrollaron capacidades en la UCP para gestionar mejor el proyecto, se mantuvo un seguimiento
frecuente, se contribuyó en la generación de soluciones, promoviendo los cambios requeridos y necesarios
para una mejor ejecución del proyecto.

Durante el período 2002 ­ 2003 se dan retrasos en las no objeciones de los términos de referencias, se
pierde un poco la efectividad y oportunidad del apoyo técnico y acompañamiento, lo que es identificado por
las autoridades gubernamentales como un obstáculo a la ejecución del proyecto razón por la cual se solicita
al BM un cambio en el gerente del proyecto.

Actualmente contamos con un excelente gerente del proyecto. Sus visitas y misiones han producido buenos
resultados, ha manifestado el interés del BM en continuar proporcionando ayuda técnica al país y ha
apoyado los esfuerzos del PPRSS por dar continuidad a las actividades pendientes.

SOSTENIBILIDAD DE LOS AVANCES

El desafío principal será mantener un modelo de gestión hospitalaria como el del HISMA ante las posturas
de oposición de algunos que por alguna razón no se les renueva su contrato en el HISMA, y sus
planteamientos reflejan un conflicto de intereses. El HISMA es el único hospital del país que rinde cuentas,
en donde existe una racionalización del gasto, pero que sabemos no es un modelo replicable en el país.

Sin embargo, los instrumentos que se han desarrollado si pueden ser utilizados, pueden realizarse
compromisos públicos que midan indicadores de desempeño, de proceso y de resultado.

Hace dos años se lanzó el proyecto financiado por el BID, el cual incorpora la mayor parte de las
experiencias de las reformas sectoriales en su diseño, por lo que el país tiene la oportunidad de dar
continuidad a las reformas desde los modelos exitosos de las experiencias desarrolladas por el PPRSS.

El Gobierno de Panamá ha definido como estrategia política el Sistema Nacional de Salud ó sea un Sistema
Único de Servicios Públicos de Atención por lo que el trabajo de la gestión actual está dirigido hacia: la
rendición de cuentas, trabajo conjunto MINSA/CSS, uso de instrumentos ya probados, protocolos,
compromisos de gestión, contrato­programa, sistema de referencias y contrareferencia, modelo familiar
comunitario y ambiental, etc.

Es importante mencionar que el proceso de modernización institucional forma parte del plan de gobierno
2004 ­ 2009 y que la visión del actual gobierno sobre salud es ir creando una cultura hacia la calidad y la
eficiencia.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable



                                                   - 31 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:

Jesús Maria Fernández (Senior Health Specialist, Task Team Leader)
Ada Rivera (Program Assistant)
Juan Pablo Uribe (Senior Health Specialist on EWOP, Primary ICR author)
Olympia Icochea (Institutional Economist - Consultant)

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the Project in chronological order:

Hernán Montenegro
Gerald La Forgia
Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo
Jesús Maria Fernández

C. List of people interviewed for the ICR:

The ICR preparation included an on-site visit to Panama during March 13-19, 2005. This visit enabled
numerous interviews in the country with different stakeholders and people closely related to the Project
during its various phases. Included here were:

MOH authorities (central and regional levels):
        Camilo A. Alleyne, Minister of Health - MOH
        Juan Alberto Bautista, Director of Projects with External Funding and PCU Director ­ MOH
        Alberto Amaris, Health Policy Director - MOH
        Washington Lum, Health Services Sub Director - MOH
        Norma Astudillo, PCU technical staff ­ MOH
        Bellatriz Berrocal, Director of the SMHR - MOH
        Carlos Castillo, Director Panama Oeste Health Region ­ MOH
        Alfredo Maximins, Director San Isidro Health Center in SMHR - MOH

CSS authorities:
        Rene Luciani, General Director - CSS
        Rosario Turner, Medical Services National Director - CSS
        Ruben Lopez, Director of the Interior Health Regions - CSS
        Jose Soto, Director of the Metropolitan Health Region - CSS
        Carlos Perez, member of the Project Evaluation Commission and director of the SMHR policilinic
        ­ CSS

Other main actors:
        Pedro Contreras, General Director ­ HISMA
        Victor Rodríguez, official of the Public Credit Unit - MEF
        Amael Candanedo, programme analyst - UNDP
        Jorge Montalván, public health professor ­ University of Panama
        Luis Coronado, international health consultant



                                                   - 32 -

Former authorities:
        Aida de Rivera, former Minister of Health
        Marianella Morales, former General Director - CSS
        Hernan Luque, former Health Policy and Planning Director ­ MOH
        Eric Ulloa, former Health Services Director - MOH

People interviewed in Washington DC or abroad included:
        Jesus Maria Fernandez, WB senior health specialist and current Project Task Manager
        Gerald La Forgia, WB senior health specialist and former Project Task Manager
        Hernan Montenegro, PAHO health specialist and former Project Task Manager
        Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo, WB senior health specialist and former Project Task Manager




                                                 - 33 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Ratio of physicians primary care visits per                                                   N.A.
day increased from 24 to 30 (25% increase)
Visits referred from health clinics to new                                                    1.45%
hospital lower than 5%.
Bed occupancy rate of new hospital between                                                    84.4%
80% and 85%.
Bed turnover rate of 75 in new hospital.                                                      N.A.
Rate of primary care visits per year (nurses                                                  N.A.
and physicians) increased from 1.64 to 2.14
(30% increase)
Difference of rate of primary care visits to                                                  N.A.
physicians per year between insured and
uninsured decreased from 0.66 to 0.46 (30%
decrease).


Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Management agreements with the region's Management agreements signed with HISMA Management agreements signed with HISMA
new hospital; 2 polyclinics (CSS); and 8       and 8 health centers (MOH;).                   and 8 health centers (MOH;).
health centers (MOH) signed by March 1,
1999;
2. health card issued to 60% of the region's   Health card issued. Sixty percent of the       Health card issued. Eighty fiver percent of
insured and uninsured population;              population covered.                            the population covered.
3. region's integrated (MOH and CSS)           A joint commission established in 1999, but    A joint commission established in 1999, but
Planning and Information Unit established      dissolved at change of government.             dissolved at change of government.
and operational by June 1998;                  Reinstalled in December 2001.                  Reinstalled in December 2001 for a short
                                                                                              period due to CSS withdrawal.
4. region's integrated (MOH and CSS)           Joint Regional Commission elaborated Health Joint Regional Commission elaborated Health
health plan (priority needs and interventions) Plan in 1999, still valid. Point depart of new Plan in 1999, still valid. Afterwards, only the
produced by March 1999;                        commission.                                    MOH produced these health plans due to
                                                                                              CSS withdrawal.
5. region's integrated (MOH and CSS)           Pilot application of integrated IS foreseen in Region's integrated management information
management information systems                 SMHR in 2002.                                  systems designed for 13 health regions, but
established and operational;                                                                  not operational due to CSS withdrawal.
6. new management option for the HISMA         Done. Second phase of purchasing model         Done, including institutional strengthening
established and operational by March 1999;     and strengthening hospital management.         assistance for HISMA.
7. 100% of the population covered by the                                                      Pending
new primary care model;
8. 80% of surface in direct service provision One health center enlarge, restored and         Eight health centers constructed/restored.
areas in 8 health centers                      equipped.
constructed/restored;
9. 50 Community Family Councils                72 Community Family Councils established.      45 Community Family Councils established
established and operational;                                                                  and trained.
10. monitoring and evaluating system           System had been designed in 1998, but          monitoring and evaluation system designed
designed and operational by June 1998;         stopped. Now taken up again.                   and operational for HISMA only.
11. proposal and plan for restructuring the    Redesign of MOH supply system was              Proposal plan for restructuring the MOH's
MOH's central level, including management      foreseen, but has been canceled. Purchasing central level, including management
information systems and financing role,        function strengthened through CONSALUD. information system and costs developed.
developed;
12. about 7 laws and regulations to                                                           Done.
implement the reform nationwide drafted;
13. corporate agreement between the MOH        Recent renovation of agreement, conjoint       Agreements with 14 Health Regions were
and CSS in key strategic areas signed;         strategies for HHRR, infrastructure and        signed, in which a strategy outline was




                                                                   - 34 -

                                           equipment.                               drafted. Further compliance with these
                                                                                    agreements were partial due to CSS
                                                                                    withdrawal.
14. cost-compensation system between the   Cost compensation system existent.       Cost compensation system established for
MOH and CSS operational; and                                                        the HISMA only, and with limitations in its
                                                                                    operations.
15. reform management units implemented in Reform commission constituted in 3 other Reform management units constituted in 2
at least other three Health Regions.       health regions (Los Santos, Veraguas,    other health regions (Panama Oeste and
                                           Panama Oeste.)                           Chiriquí)

1End of project




                                                             - 35 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                              Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                              Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                         Component                            US$ million   US$ million
1. Piloting the new health model in the San Miguelito            3.06             3.39           1.1
Health Region.
2. Institutional strengthening of MOH and CSS at the             2.00             1.50           0.8
central level to support the implementation of the pilot.
3. Preparation activities to scape up the reform to other        0.29             0.60           2.1
health regions.
4. Project Management.                                           0.48             0.35           0.7

Total Baseline Cost                                              5.83             5.84
 Physical Contingencies                                          0.06
 Price Contingencies                                             0.18
                           Total Project Costs                   6.07             5.84
                     Total Financing Required                    6.07             5.84


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                    Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                   Other
1. Works                              0.00             0.31          0.56          0.00        0.87
                                     (0.00)            (0.16)      (0.28)          (0.00)     (0.44)
2. Goods                              0.25             0.00          0.63          0.00        0.88
                                     (0.25)            (0.00)      (0.38)          (0.00)     (0.63)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00          0.00          3.24        3.24
Consultants                          (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)          (2.30)     (2.30)
4. Training                           0.00             0.00          0.84          0.00        0.84
                                     (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.84)          (0.00)     (0.84)
5. Operating Costs                    0.00             0.00          0.20          0.00        0.20
                                     (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.09)          (0.00)     (0.09)
6. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                              0.25             0.31          2.23          3.24        6.03
                                     (0.25)            (0.16)      (1.59)          (2.30)     (4.30)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                   Other
1. Works                              0.00             0.00         0.62           0.00       0.62
                                     (0.01)           (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.01)
2. Goods                              0.00             0.06         1.18           0.00       1.24



                                                    - 36 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.01             2.98              2.99
    Consultants                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.26)            (0.00)           (1.26)
    4. Training                             0.00               0.00              0.68             0.00              0.68
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    5. Operating Costs                      0.00               0.00              0.30             0.00              0.30
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                               0.00               0.06              2.79             2.98              5.83
                                           (0.01)             (0.00)            (1.26)            (0.00)           (1.27)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Piloting the new health      2.25         0.68                     2.16         1.23                  96.0     180.9
model in the San Miguelito
Health Region.
2. Institutional                1.45         0.41                     1.21         0.29                  83.4      70.7
strengthening of MOH and
CSS at the central level to
support the
implementation of the
pilot.
3. Preparation activities to    0.26         0.03                     0.44         0.15                  169.2    500.0
scape up the reform to
other health regions.
4. Project Management.          0.34         0.11                     0.09         0.26                  26.5     236.4




                                                           - 37 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 38 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              08/18/97                  1    TEAM LEADER (1);
              06/06/97                  7    TEAM LEADER (1); HNP
                                             LEAD SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (1); HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANTS (2)
              08/22/97                  4    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANTS (2)
              10/19/97                  6    TEAM LEADER (1); HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (1); OPERATION
                                             SPECIALIST
                                             (1);CONSULTANTS (3)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/13/98                  7    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); LAWYER
                                             (1); CONSULTANTS (2)

 Supervision
              06/21/1999                2    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              11/17/2001                2    TEAM LEADER (1); HEALTH          S               S
                                             EC, PILOT/REF (1);
                                             CONSULTANT, LINK PHC (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              11/17/2001                2    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             SOCIAL SECTOR
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              09/09/2002                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              11/20/2003                2    SENIOR P. HEALTH SPECI (1);      S               S
                                             TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
              06/10/2004                1    TTL (1)                          S               S
              12/16/2004                1    TTL (1)                          S               S

 ICR
              03/14/05                  3     TTL (1); PUBLIC HEALTH          S               S
                                              SPECIALIST (1);
                                              CONSULTANT (1)



                                              - 39 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               10                       43,500
  Appraisal/Negotiation                     5                       21,750
  Supervision                              12                      139,200
  ICR                                       1                       13,050
  Total                                    28                      217,500




                                            - 40 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Project Appraisal Document for a Health Sector Pilot Reform Project in Panama, dated June 26, 1998
(Report No: 17757-PAN).

2. Loan Agreement for the Health Sector Reform Pilot Project, dated December 15, 1998 (loan number
4375-PAN).

3. Aide Memoirs, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports.

4. Consultant study reports financed under the Project, including: (i) Bitrán & Asociados evaluation of
HISMA performance ("Evaluación del Modelo HISMA y Comparación con Otros Dos Hospitales con
Modelo Tradicional de Funcionamiento", August 2001); (ii) Gesaworld SA evaluation of HISMA and
SMHR performance ("Análisis de la Demanda del HISMA y Plan de Acción para Mejorar la Respuesta
a las Necesidades de la Población Protegida", April, 2004), and (iii) UNDP 2004 project evaluation ("
Mayor Eficiencia y Equidad en Servicios Publicos", 2004).

5. Borrower's comments to the ICR, dated April 13, 2005 (included in Section 9).

6. Other relevant Project documents, including (i) Laws creating CONSALUD and the HISMA governing
board (numbers 27 and 28, dated May 1st and May 12 1998, respectively): (ii) Performance agreements
signed between the MOH and the SMHR (August, 2001) and between the SMHR and a local health center
(March, 2001): and (iii) Corporate Agreement between the MOH and the CSS, signed August, 2001.




                                                   - 43 -

- 44 -

