Report No. PID5750
Project Name                     Panama-Health Sector Reform Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Health
Project ID                       PAPA39808
Borrower                         Republic of Panama
Implementing Agency              The Ministry of Health (MOH)
Dr. Alfredo Molto L.
Ministerio de Salud
Apartado 2048
Panama 1, Panama
Tel. (507) 227-3430
Fax. (507) 227-2071
Date this PID Prepared           October 29, 1997
Appraisal Date                   12/08/97
Approval Date                    02/28/98
1.      Country and Sector Background:
In the last few decades Panama has made important progress in terms
of its health indicators. Life expectancy has increased, and infant
and maternal mortality in addition to malnutrition rates have
decreased considerably. In terms of expenditures, Panama spends 9.2w
of its GDP on health care (one of the highest levels in the LAC
region, only comparable to Costa Rica and Argentina). Given the high
level of expenditures, health outcomes and performance indicators
are lower than expected, mainly because of issues related to equity,
efficiency, and quality of health services.
Inequity in access, utilization, and coverage of health services:
Panama's health indicators hide important differences among
population groups. Those regions with the highest percentage of
poor, rural and indigenous populations have the worst indicators in
the country, as well as a high prevalence of infectious diseases.
There is clearly an unequal access, utilization and coverage of
health services fostered by the existence of three main sub-systems
in the sector that function independently (MOH, CSS, and the private
sector). Likewise, Panama has a supply-driven health care system in
which most of the public subsidies finance a relatively inefficient
health services provider network and health programs, neither of
which are adapted to local needs (especially those of the poor).
The current cost recovery scheme charges a small flat fee across all
population groups instead of adjusting it by family income. This
leads to the poor very frequently having to subsidize the services
utilized by the more affluent population groups.
Inefficiency of health expenditures: The inefficiency is derived
from a disintegrated financing and provision of health services
among the different health sector players that fosters duplication



of health services, negates economies of scale, and creates
unnecessary increases in the cost of health services. In addition,
the MOH has weak policy making, financing, regulation, supervision
and evaluation capabilities, as well as deteriorated infrastructure
and obsolete management and information systems. Most health
expenditures are directed to secondary and tertiary care facilities
rather than to cost-effective primary care interventions. There is
an excessive centralization of decision making and management, and
great rigidity and bureaucracy. This has furthered a culture of
poor management, no accountability for results and performance, and
an inability to respond to local needs in a timely fashion.
Likewise, there is poor community and individual participation
mechanisms, fostering little awareness of the importance of self-
care in preserving a health lifestyle. There is no linkage between
payment transfers to providers and performance, with little
incentive to improve efficiency and effectiveness. Moreover, there
is an inefficient cost-recovery scheme in place, and a disorganized
health services delivery and referral system which lacks appropriate
regulation, and financial incentives to moderate the demand of
health services.
Poor quality of services: There are no incentives in the system to
provide quality of care. Consumers are never consulted on the
operating system and the services provided, and have no choice of
provider. Health services are not adequately supervised, and there
are no appropriate accreditation and quality control systems in
place to monitor human resources and the use of services.
2.      Project Objectives:
The project's main objective is to support the Government of
Panama's health strategy to improve the efficiency of health
expenditures, and the accessibility and utilization of health
services across all population groups, particularly the poor. More
specifically, the project would support the piloting of a new model
for organizing, providing and financing health services in the San
Miguelito Health Region which would: develop a new purchasing
function for health services; integrate public health services
providers, and increase the participation of the private sector in
the provision of services; strengthen the primary health care
services provider network; and increase community participation. It
will also support the initiation of institutional strengthening
activities at the MOH central level, including the development of a
corporate agreement between the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the
Social Security Institute (CSS), and preparation activities for the
implementation of the reform in other Health Regions.
3.      Project Description:
The project would be implemented over a three-year period starting
at the beginning of 1998 and would have three components. These
components include: (a) Piloting of a new model for organizing,
providing, and financing health services in the San Miguelito Health
Region, covering (i) the design and implementation of a health
services purchasing function; (ii) strengthening of the Health
-2 -



Services Region; (iii) strengthening and integration of the health
services provider network; (iv) increase of community prticipation;
and (v) development and implementation of a monitoring and
evaluation system. (b) Institutional strengthening activities at the
MOH central level to support the implementation of the San Miguelito
pilot, and development of a strategic partnership between the MOH
and the CSS, covering (i) strengthening of the MOH; (ii) development
of the MOH's new financing role; and (iii) design and implementation
of a social marketing campaign. (c) Preparation activities to scale
up the reform to other Health Regions, covering (i) carrying out
studies, pilots, technical assistance and training activities to
scale up the reform to other health regions.
4.      Project Financing:   Project costs are estimated at US$5
million. Bank financing would amount to US$3.75 million, US$1
million would be financed by the Government of Panama, and the
remaining US$250.000 would be financed by users.
5.      Project Implementation:   The executing agency is the Ministry
of Health (MOH).
6.      Project Sustainability:   The project would be sustainable
because it will be carrying out few physical investments. Hence,
recurrent costs derived from project investments will be minimal.
Likewise, this project will explicitly target the long-term
sustainability of the health sector, by attempting to increase
productivity and enable the Panamanian administration to accrue long
term savings as it strives to develop an alternative financing system.
7.      Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector:
a) Develop sufficient institutional capacity and cooperation between
different government institutions. The project will engage other
Ministries in the initial stages to participate in the design of the
reform, and particularly the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to respect
the budgetary framework and the fund transfer program to MOH, so
that budget cuts do not erode MOH's planning capacity.
b) Establish flexibility and simplicity in project design. The MOH
and CSS intend to implement the reform in phases, so that they can
build the necessary institutional capacity, and demonstrate results
in the initial phase. They will achieve this by piloting the new
health model in the San Miguelito Health Region which will allow
them to draw conclusions at an early stage before scaling up the
reform, as well as to show visible results to the beneficiaries and
counteract political resistance.
c) Allow for adequate monitoring and supervision. The proposed
project will involve close follow-up in the field and continuity of
consultants and Bank staff supervision, so that the necessary
modifications can be made on time, and so that the right weight is
put on critical issues identified at the local level. As the
project will be financing the implementation of a pilot, the
development of a rigorous monitoring and evaluation system will be
crucial.
-3-



8.      Poverty Category:   N/A
9.      Environmental Aspects:   The project is expected not to have an
environmental impact. There are very few physical investments, and
all are geared towards the rehabilitation of health facilities.
Most of the activities are related to institutional building and policy.
10.     Program Objective Categories:   The primary categories are
Institution-Building and Policy
Contact Point            Hernan Montenegro, Task Manager
Fiona Garin (Co-Task Manager)
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington, DC 20433
Tel. (202) 458-5454
Fax. (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank Infoshop week ending November 14, 1997.
- 4 -



