Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4375-PAN
Loan Agreement
(Health Sector Reform Pilot Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 15, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4375-PAN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 15, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF PANAMA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has received a letter dated February 16, 1998 (the Health 
Sector Policy Letter) from the Borrower describing the Borrower’s policy in the health 
sector; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
Page  2
through December 2, 1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 is modified to read:
“(c)
No later than six months before the Closing Date, the Borrower 
shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation 
of the Project, its cost and the  benefits derived and to be derived from it, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of 
their respective obligations under the 
Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Loan.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a) 
“Corporate Agreement” means the agreement between the Borrower, through 
MOH (as hereinafter defined), and CSS (as hereinafter defined), dated June 26, 1998;
(b)
“CSS”
means Caja de Seguro  Social, the Borrower’s Social Security 
Institute; 
(c)
“ERL” means the Loan Agreement (Economic Recovery Loan) between the 
Borrower and the Bank dated February 27, 1992; 
(d)
“Health Facilities” means the health centers, hospitals and policlinics 
within the San Miguelito Health Region (as hereinafter defined), including the San 
Miguelito Hospital;
(e)
“Health Region” means any of the Borrower’s health regions as defined in 
the Organic Law of the Borrower’s Ministry of Health, dated February 27, 1969;
(f)
“Local Health Committees” means local health committees as described in 
the Decreto de Gabinete (Cabinet’s Decree) No. 401, dated December 29, 1970;
(g)
“Management Agreements” means the agreements referred to in Section 3.07 
(b) of this Agreement;
(h)
“MOH” means Ministerio de Salud, the Borrower’s Ministry of Health;
(i)
“Monitoring Indicators” means the performance indicators set forth in the 
letter of even date herewith from the Borrower to the Bank;
(j)
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.08 of this 
Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, as the same may be amended from time to time by 
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower;
(k)
“PCU” means the project coordination unit referred to in Section 3.09 of 
this Agreement;
(l)
“Primary Health Care Model” means the health model described in the 
Health Sector Policy Letter;
(m)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.11 of this 
Agreement;
(n)
“Reform” means the structural reform of the Borrower’s health sector as 
described in the Health Policy Letter; 
(o)
“San Miguelito Health Region”  means the San Miguelito Health Region as 
defined in the Resolución de Gabinete (Cabinet’s Resolution) No. 129, dated May 15, 
1995;
(p)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
Page  3
(q)
“Year” means calendar year.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to four 
million three-hundred thousand Dollars ($4,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain a 
special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay 
interest on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in single 
currency for value the first day 
of such Interest Period (or, in the case 
of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day 
of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
Page  4
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the 
Guarantor and the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the 
expiry of the notice period unless the Guarantor or the Borrower notifies the Bank 
during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not 
apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable on May 15 and November 
15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.08. The Minister of Health or any person designated in writing by such 
Minister is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking 
any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out, through MOH and with the assistance of CSS, the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, health, economic, 
technical, financial, administrative and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for  
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the 
Borrower, through MOH and with the assistance of CSS, shall duly perform its 
obligations under the Corporate Agreement.  Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, the 
Borrower shall not amend, waive, abrogate, suspend or fail to enforce the Corporate 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04.  (a)  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall provide in its annual budgets and make available, 
promptly as needed, to MOH each Year until the completion of the Project, the minimum 
amounts of counterpart funds required for the carrying out of the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall, not later than sixty calendar days after each annual 
budget mentioned in (a) herein has been approved, furnish to the Bank, written 
evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that such annual budget has included at least the 
minimum amounts of counterpart funds for the carrying out of the Project during the 
corresponding Year.
Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 (a) of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall: 
Page  5
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank on January 31 of each Year, commencing on January 31, 1999, a report, of 
such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
previous Year and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof for the 
following Year; and 
(c)
prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review and approval, not later 
than January 31 of each Year, commencing on January 31, 1999, a proposed annual 
investment program, implementation schedule and proposed budget in respect of each 
Part of the Project during the upcoming year.
Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than 90 days after the Effective Date, furnish to the Bank a 
base line study of the implementation of Part A of the Project in accordance with the 
guidelines provided in the Operational Manual;
(b)
not later than, respectively, 18 months and 35 months after the Effective 
Date, furnish to the Bank, a midterm and a final evaluation study of the 
implementation of Part A of the Project, said studies to be prepared in accordance 
with the guidelines provided in the Operational Manual;    
(c)
in the month of March of each Year during the carrying out of the 
Project, hold an annual review with the Bank, such review to be based on the report 
referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement and to focus, inter alia, on: (i) 
progress in the execution and in the achievement of the objectives of the Project; 
(ii) performance of the PCU; (iii) experience with the procedures set forth in the 
Operational Manual; (iv) the proposed annual investment program for the Project in the 
upcoming Year; and (v) any changes in the Project design and implementation that may 
be necessary; and
(d)
if, as a result of any of the above reviews, the Bank shall have 
reasonably determined that the progress in the execution of the Project or the 
attainment of the objectives of the Project is not satisfactory and shall have 
communicate this to the Borrower, promptly take or cause to be taken, without 
limitation or restriction to any of the Bank’s rights under this Agreement, all such 
action, satisfactory to the Bank, as  shall be necessary for the efficient execution 
of the Project or for the attainment of its objectives.
Section 3.07.  The Borrower, through MOH, shall:
(a)
prepare a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, providing for the 
implementation of an autonomous management regime for the San Miguelito Hospital, said 
regime to include: (i) the hiring of health personnel and the carrying out of 
procurement processes in accordance with private sector regulations; and (ii) the 
subcontracting of non-medical related services with private corporations; and, except 
as the Bank may otherwise agree, thereafter carry out such plan; and
(b) 
enter, or cause CSS to enter, into a management agreement with each of 
the Health Facilities in accordance with the Operational Manual.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance  with an operational manual acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter operate and maintain 
during the implementation of the Project, a Project coordinating unit, with staffing, 
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.10. The Borrower, through the MOH, shall cause the Health Directorate 
of the San Miguelito Health Region to be the implementing agent for Part A of the 
Page  6
Project. 
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall open and maintain, until completion of the 
Project, a separate account in the Banco Nacional de Panamá or a commercial bank 
acceptable to the Bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and shall 
deposit at the beginning of each month into that account counterpart funds as shall be 
necessary for covering the anticipated payments during that month on account of goods, 
works or services procured or to be procured under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
financial statements, records and accounts 
and a report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received
the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that CSS shall have failed to comply 
with any of its obligations under the Corporate Agreement.
Page  7
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as  additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the PCU has been duly established in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 3.09 of this Agreement;  
(b)
the Operational Manual has been issued by MOH;
(c)
the Borrower has duly opened the Project Account and made a deposit of, 
at least, $250,000 equivalent in such account;
(d)
the Management Agreements have been executed with at least three Health 
Facilities; and 
(e)
the Borrower, through MOH, has presented to the Bank the plan 
satisfactory to the Bank referred to in Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date March 15, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Economic Policy of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Planificación y Política Económica
Edificio Ogawa, Via España y Calle 52 Este
Apartado Postal 2694
Panama 3, República de Panama
Telex: 
3683 MIPPE PG
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  8
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
By /s/ Eloy Alfaro 
Authorized Representative
CONTRALORIA GENERAL DE LA REPUBLICA
By /s/ Gabriel Castro 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
  Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
  400,000
50%
(2)
Goods
  500,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 
60% of local 
expenditures 
(3)
Consultants'
Services
2,200,000
75%
(4)
Training
  700,000
100%
(5)
Operating Costs
  100,000 
50% until the 
aggregate amount
of withdrawals
reaches $40,000; 
and 25% thereafter
(6)
Unallocated
  400,000
Page  9
TOTAL
4,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “Training” means expenditures for training materials, study 
tours, rental of training facilities, registration fees, travel, and per diem for 
training providers and recipients; and
(d)
the term “Operating Costs”  means expenditures for office supplies, 
printing services, and maintenance of computing equipment and vehicles procured under 
the Project.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods  and 
works, as the case may be, costing less than $250,000 equivalent respectively (other 
than those for which prior review is required under Part D.2 (b) both of Section I of 
Schedule 4 of this Agreement); (b) consulting firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent; (c) individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and 
(d) all Training and Operating Costs; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the efficiency of the Borrower’s 
health expenditures and the accessibility and utilization of its health services, 
particularly by the poorest segment of the population.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Pilot Program
Carrying out of a pilot program to implement a new model for organizing, 
providing and financing health services in the San Miguelito Health Region, including, 
inter alia: 
1.
The design and implementation of a new health services purchasing function in  
MOH and CSS; the design and implementation of an alternative transfer and payment 
system; and identification of the users of the health system. 
2.
The strengthening of the management of the San Miguelito Health Region through: 
(a) design and implementation of new management techniques, including establishment of 
norms and preparation of  manuals for management of personnel, drug supply and quality 
control systems, a cost-compensation system and a public health surveillance system; 
and (b) design and operation of a new integrated management information system for MOH 
and CSS.
3.
The strengthening and integration of the health services provider network 
through: (a) design and implementation of new management techniques, including norms 
and preparation of manuals for personnel management, financial management and 
budgeting, medical supply and drugs management and maintenance; (b) the implementation 
of the Primary Health Care Model; and (c) rehabilitation and equipping of the primary 
health centers and regional offices of the San Miguelito Health Region. 
4.
The strengthening of community participation in the organization and delivery of 
health services including: (a) strengthening of existing Local Health Committees and 
other relevant community organizations; and (b) developing and implementing new 
Page  10
participatory mechanisms.
5.
The design and implementation of a social marketing campaign to develop 
consensus building among stakeholders with respect to the health care reform 
initiatives undertaken by the Borrower.
6.
The design and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system for Part A 
of the Project.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening of MOH and Development of a Partnership 
Between MOH and 
CSS
1.
Strengthening of MOH through: (a) the development and execution of a 
restructuring and reorganization plan, including the rehabilitation of the MOH 
headquarters; (b) the development of quality control and accreditation systems; (c) 
the development of a plan on medical waste management; (d) the development of a 
management information system; (e) the preparation of legal and regulatory proposals 
necessary to implement the Reform; and (f) the carrying out of the Corporate 
Agreement.
2.
Development and implementation of a new financing mechanism by MOH through: (a) 
development of a health insurance scheme for the uninsured beneficiaries; and (b) 
implementation of the cost-compensation system developed under the ERL.
Part C:
Pilot Program Expansion
Carrying out of preparatory activities to expand the health reform process to 
other Health Regions.
Part D: 
Project Management
Administration of the Project through the PCU.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Done
(Expressed in Dollars)
On each November 15 and May 15
beginning on November 15, 2003
through November 15, 2014
180,000,000
On May 15, 2015
160,000,000
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
Page  11
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods  estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, and works estimated to cost 
more than $250,000 equivalent per contract shall be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Procurement of all goods and works under Part C.1 (a) above, shall be 
carried out using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
2.
International Shopping 
Computing and medical equipment for Health Facilities and vehicles estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed: (i) in respect of computing equipment $100,000 equivalent; (ii) in respect of  
medical equipment $400,000 equivalent; and (iii) in respect of vehicles $42,500 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Office and medical furniture estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $170,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods and works required for Part 3 (c) of the Project costing less than $3,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed: (i) in the case of 
works $50,000 equivalent; and (ii) in the case of goods $25,000 equivalent, may with 
the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.7 of the Guidelines.  
5.
Procurement of Small Work
Works estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $555,900 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  12
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods to be awarded under Part B of this 
Section; and (b) the first contract for goods  and works to be awarded under Part  
C.1, Part C.2 and Part C.3 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract but more 
than $50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed: (i) in respect of 
national consultants $540,000 equivalent; and (ii) in respect of foreign consultants 
$255,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for feasibility studies and supervision of works, and audits, up to an 
aggregate amount of $135,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed: (i) in respect of 
national consultants $540,000 equivalent; and (ii) in respect of foreign consultants 
$255,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
Page  13
1.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, but more than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, the semi-annual employment programs, terms of reference and 
any amendment raising the contract value above 15% of the original contract value 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, the semi-annual employment programs, terms of reference and any amendment 
raising the contract value above 15% of the original contract value shall be furnished 
to the Bank for its prior review and approval.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section III.  
Special Provisions 
1.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall expressly 
govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in Part C.1 of Section I of this 
Schedule:
(a)
Bids may be:
(i)
submitted at any reasonable time before bid opening, either by 
mail, courier 
or person; and
(ii)
accompanied by a bid security in the form and amount specified in 
the standard 
bidding documents.
(b)
No provisional award shall be made at the time of bid opening.
(c)
No minimum number of bids shall be required as a condition to award a 
contract.
(d)
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been evaluated as 
the lowest and responsive bid, in accordance with criteria clearly set forth in the 
standard bidding documents.
(e)
Contracts for civil works shall provide for mobilization advances, 
whenever appropriate.
(f)
After contract award, performance securities shall be provided within the 
time period and in the form and amount specified in the standard bidding documents.
(g)
Price adjustment provisions, acceptable to the Bank, may be included in 
contracts for works.
2.
In addition to and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of 
this Schedule:
(a)
Foreign consultants shall not be required to:
(i)
be locally registered as a condition of participation in the 
selection process;
Page  14
(ii)
give any participation in or share of any consulting contracts to 
any local 
firm or person for the purposes of participating in the 
selection process or 
receiving an award, except in connection with 
a joint venture arrangement 
where: (i) a sufficient number of 
capable domestic firms or individual 
consultants exist to allow 
a foreign consultant reasonable freedom of choice; 
(ii) the 
contribution of either party to the joint venture arrangement will 
not be constrained by any prescribed manner or extent of participation; and 
(iii) the foreign consultant is not required to associate itself with any 
specific named domestic firms or individual consultants;
(iii)
furnish any certificate issued by a local authority about their 
legal capacity 
or tax status for the purposes of submitting a 
proposal; and
(iv)
personally submit their proposals. 
(b)
Consultants shall be selected from a short list of firms invited to 
submit proposals on the basis of terms of reference, employment conditions and 
evaluation criteria clearly set forth in the respective letter of invitation.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the Project;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $450,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
             (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
Page  15
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Sections 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account for the Project, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
