L 'qAJ 75
FILE COPY                                 RESTRICTED
Rpor? No.  PA-83a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GREECE
May 5, 1971
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00           = Drachma (Dr) 30.00
Dr  1.00           = US$ 0.0333
Dr  1,000,000      - US$ 33,333
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)    =  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)  =  0.62 miles
1 meter (m)      3 = 39.37 inches
1 cubic meter Cm )= 35.31 cubic feet
1 millimeter (mm) = 0.039 inches
ABBREVIATIONS
LRS   =  Land Reclamation Service
TOEV  =  Farmers' Water Users Association
PPC   =  Public Power Company
IGSR     Institute of Geology and Subsurface Research



GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..............................   i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION          ..............................1............      I
II.   BACKGROUND          .................................                   1
III.   THE PROJECT AREA ....... ...............                                2
General       .................................                  2
Climate         .........................................        3
Soils, Topography, and Drainage ..............                   3
Groundwater Resources ..... .............                        3
Farm Size and Land Tenure                  .        .            3
Agriculture Production ..........................                4
Transportation .............................                     4
IV.   THE PROJECT ..........................................                  4
Description ......................                               4
Project Works                       . .    5
Water Demand, Supply, and Quality ...............                6
Engineering Design ..............................                6
Cost Estimates .................................                 7
Financing .......................                                7
Procurement ......................                               8
Disbursement   ................................ .                8
Project Accounts and Audit ..... ..........                      9
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..........................                 9
Implementation of Project Works ....             .............   9
Project Coordination ............................    10
Hydrogeologic Studies ...........................    10
Consultants ..........         ...........................      11
Land Consolidation .......           .......................    11
Project Charges .................................    11
Operation and Maintenance .....            ..................    13
Supporting Agricultural Services ....            ............    13
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which con-
sisted of Messrs. A. Golan, J. Marinet, C.G. Moret (Bank), and K. E. Ander-
son (consultant).



-2-
Page No.
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING, AND FARM INCOME . . ..............   14
Production ......................................   14
Market Prospects ........ ........................   14
Farmers' Income    ........ .................... ....  15
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................   16
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS .......................,.,.,...   17
ANNEXES
1.  Soils
2.  Project Works
3.  Construction Schedule
4.  Water Demand, Supply, and Quality
5.  Cost Estimates
6.  Estimated Schedules of Expenditures and Disbursements
7.  Organization
8.  Outline Terms of Reference for Consultants
9.  Land Consolidation
10.  Operation and Maintenance Costs
11.  Supporting Agricultural Services
12.  Present and Projected Cropping Patterns
13.  Marketing
14.  Farm Income at Current Market Prices
15.  Economic Rate of Return
MAP



GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agriculture continues to play an important role in the Greek econ-
omy, providing employment opportunities to nearly one-half of the labor
force and accounting for about 55% of all export earnirngs. Modern agricul-
ture in the country depends heavily on irrigation, but, despite substantial
Government investments in a large number of surface irrigation projects, the
actual expansion in the area under irrigation has been disappointing. Slow
progress has been due largely to the scattering of investments over many
projects and inadequacies in project preparation and implementation.
ii.       The proposed Groundwater Development Project, which is the first
of its kind in the country, would consist of the development of groundwater
in the Thessaly plain in Northern Greece. It would include:
(a) drilling 1,600 production wells and about 35 exploration
wells;
(b) installing pumps and electrical motors;
(c) installing irrigation pipes, distribution canals, and
sprinkler units; and
(d) constructing farm roads and a surface drainage system.
About half of the farm holdings in the area have already been consolidated
and the balance would be consolidated prior to the commencement of works.
Responsibility for operating about 80% of the wells would rest with farmers'
water users associations and the balance with individual farmers. A
qualified and experienced consulting firm would provide technical assistance
in well drilling and further groundwater explorations.
iii.      Estimated total project cost is US$50 million, with an estimated
foreign exchange component of US$25 million, or 50% of the total. Contracts
totaling about US$43 million for drilling 1,000 wells, purchasing rigs for
drilling the remaining wells, inetalllng pump units for all wells and
sprinkler systems for 80% of the wells, constructing roads and drains through-
out the area, and purchasing of operation and maintenance equipment would
be awarded following international competitive bidding. Foreign exchange
Costs have been estimated on the expectation that, except for screens,
casings, rigs, and operation and maintenance equipment -- all of which are
not manufactured locally -- and the drilling of 500 wells, local contractors
and suppliers would be the successful bidders.
iv.       Overall responsibility for project works would rest with the Land
Reclamation Service (LRS) of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is in
charge of all aimilar works in Greece. Implementation of project works



- ii -
would be the responsibility of LRS's regional director in Thessaly who is
under the administrative control of the Inspector of Agriculture, a senior
official of the Ministry of Agriculture in charge of all the Ministry's
work in the region. A senior official of LRS in Athens would be appointed
as the Project Coordinator. In that capacity he would coordinate the
work of the various departments engaged in project development. A steering
committee comprising senior officials of the Ministries of Coordination,
Agriculture and Public Works would provide overall policy guidance. LRS,
which is staffed with competent personnel, would be able to implement the
works successfully.
v.        At full agricultural development of all project wells, the
annual incremental net value of production would be about Dr 450 million
(US$15 million).  The economic rate of return on the entire project would  g
be around 18%.  It would vary between 17% on a typical project well serving
25 ha of field crops with sprinkler irrigation and 20% on a well serving
fruit trees with gravity irrigation. Financial returns to participating
farmers would be even higher.
vi.       The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$25 million for a
period of 20 years, including a five and a half-year grace period. The
borrower would be the Government of the Kingdom of Greece.
.



GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Kingdom of Greece has requested a Bank
loan of US$25 million to assist in financing the construction of 1,600
deep wells to irrigate about 40,000 ha in the Thessaly plain in Northern
Greece.  This would be the first agricultural project in Greece receiving
Bank support.
1.02      The project as originally presented in September 1970, called for
the construction of 2,200 wells in the plains of Thessaly, Macedonia, and
Thrace at an estimated cost of US$53 million. During appraisal, it became
apparent that the cost of wells would be higher than originally estimated.
The areas with the least amount of readily available hydrogeological data
were in Macedonia and Thrace. Since groundwater development in the three
regions can be phased, it was agreed to limit the first phase project to
Thessaly and to include in the project exploratory drilling in the other two
regions. A groundwater development project in Macedonia and Thrace could
be ready for appraisal in late 1971.
1.03      This report is based on technical feasibility studies prepared
by the Greek Ministry of Coordination and the Land Reclamation Service
(LRS) of the Ministry of Agriculture, with assistance from the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program, and on studies conducted by a consulting firm,
Electro-Watt Engineering Services of Zurich, Switzerland. The project
was appraised in November 1970 by Messrs. A. Golan, J. Marinet, and
C. G. Moret (Bank) and K. E. Anderson (Consultant), who also prepared
this report.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      Agricultural output in Greece grew at about 4.5% annually in
value terms during the 1960's and increased output was achieved for most
major crops and livestock products. Significant growth also occurred in
exports, especially tobacco, fruit and olive oil, and the total value of
agricultural exports during the same period increased by more than 6% per
year. Although the association with the EEC has created good export
prospects for fresh fruits, vegetables, beverages, and high quality cotton,
demand for exports of oriental tobacco, raisins, and olive oil have not
expanded in Western Europe and Greece will thus have to find other markets
for these commodities. Tobacco continues to account in value terms for
about 35% of all agricultural exports, while cotton and fruit products
make up most of the remainder. As for agricultural imports, about two-thirds
of these continue to be animal products, most meat.
2.02      Although the size of the labor force in agriculture is slowly
decreasing, this sector still provides employment for nearly one-half



- 2 -
of the labor force. Pressure on agricultural land is heavy, and a substan-
tial portion of the presently cultivated tobacco and cereal land is
marginal for agricultural use. Farms are small, averaging 3.2 ha of culti-
vated land, and fragmented.
2.03      Government agricultural policy has placed great emphasis on
price support programs to stimulate production and to raise farm income.
While this policy has been effective in increasing output, it has also
resulted in distortions in resource allocation and over-production of
raisins, olive oil, and cereals. Recent changes, under which support pay-
ments for wheat and tobacco were replaced by an income support system,
have somewhat reduced the financial burden of the Government but price                   0
supports are likely to continue in the near future.
2.04      Public investments in agriculture have been largely concentrated
on irrigation, which accounts for over 70% of the 1968-72 development
plan allocations for agriculture. Most of the investments in irrigation
to date have been concentrated on surface irrigation, with relatively
little attention being paid to groundwater development, despite its
lower capital cost and shorter development period. With investments having
been spread over a large number of projects, the actual rate at which new
areas were being brought under irrigation has been disappointing. In
addition, many projects have also suffered from inadequate preparation
and the absence of coordination during implementation. The Government is
now trying to rectify this situation by concentrating investments on high
priority projects.  On the production side the current development plan
gives high priority to raising output of feed grains, fodder crops, and
livestock products, with a view to import substitution, while emphasis
for export crops is given to those with better market prospects, namely
cotton, vegetables, and fruits.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The Thessaly region is bordered by rugged mountains on three
sides and by the Aegean Sea on the east (see Map). The plains within are
shielded by the sharply rising mountains, Olympus, Osso and Pelion.
Dividing the plain areas are a long ridge, extending from north to south,
and the Pinios River, flowing from west to east. Several primary areas in
the Thessaly plain, scattered in all quadrants, have been selected for de-
velopment under the project (see Map). Out of nearly 75,000 ha of agricul-
tural land in these areas, some 25,000 ha are already irrigated, mainly
with shallow wells.



-3-
Climate
3.02      The Thessaly plain has a temperate climate, dominated by
continental influences. There are occasional frosts and annual rainfall in
the project areas varies between 500 to 750 mm, of which over 70% occurs
between October and April. During the summer months, the scant precipitation
is inadequate for the profitable productions of most crops. Temperatures
range from a mean daily minimum of 60C during January to a mean daily
maximum of 280C during July. Mean annual relative humidity is around
65%. Winds in the plain are moderate and the 8 m/sec velocity considered
critical for sprinkler irrigation is seldom exceeded. The number of
cloudless days is high. Throughout the plain, climate conditions are
suitable for the production of a wide range of crops and fruit trees under
irrigation.
Soils, Topography, and Drainage
3.03      Most of the alluvial soils of the project area have a high
fertility level and are suitable for irrigation (Annex 1). In many
places, the soils are heavy and surface drainage would be required.
Because of the heavy soils and undulating topography, sprinkler irrigation
seems, in many cases, the most appropriate irrigation method. The alluvial
soils, which account for 60% of all soils in the plain are flat and have
slopes below 3%. Terrace soils (25%) are generally clayey and have slopes
between 3% and 20%, with a high percentage above 8%. With some restrictions,
these arable soils could be irrigated. Cereals, forage, and industrial crops
are well adapted to the soils of the Thessaly plain. In the Tirnavos area,
fruit production can be developed successfully because of the lighter
soils and favorable climatic conditions.
Groundwater Resources
3.04      A water balance study, prepared for the entire Thessaly plain in
1968 by Electro-Watt (para 1.03), indicates that groundwater resources are
sufficient to irrigate over 165,000 ha compared with a present utilization
of less than 60,000 ha. Subsequent investigations have shown that the
groundwater resources within individual sub-areas proposed for development
under the project would be adequate to meet the project needs. Water re-
quirements and supplies are further discussed in paragraphs 4.07 and 4.08.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.05      Unlike the situation in the rest of the country, where the
average farm size, expressed in terms of cultivated area, is 3.2 ha, hold-
ings in the project area are fairly large. Farms larger than 5.0 ha account
for 75% of the land, and the average farm size is around 8.0 ha. The great
majority of holdings are owner-operated. With the total number of farming
units in the country remaining relatively stable, farm sizes have not
changed in recent years, even though the number of plots per farm has
increased as land is divided up through inheritance, dowry, or acquisition.
Fragmentation in the project area is common, and consolidation of holdings
would enable a more efficient use of project wells.



-4-
Agriculture Production
3.06      Rainfed agriculture in the project area is oriented mainly
toward winter crops of wheat, barley, and forage; summer crops are
generally restricted to tobacco, some grain legumes, and fruits such as
olives, grapes, and almonds. On irrigated lands, the main crops are sugar
beet, cotton, vegetables, and fruits. Each farm has a number of shallow
wells, providing irrigation to about one-third of the farm area. The
wells, however, are usually primitive, have low productivity and are not
dependable. There are many sheep herds in the area and the number of
cattle, either for milk or beef production, is also increasing rapidly.
3.07      Farmers in the area are well acquainted with modern production
techniques, and the standards of agriculture are generally high.  Except
for harvesting, most of the farm work is mechanized.  Fertilizers, pesti-
cides, and improved seeds are readily available through the cooperatives
and used mainly on irrigated lands. Their use on non-irrigated lands is
limited.
Transportation
3.08      The project area has excellent road and rail connections with the
rest of the country. A paved expressway and a railway, which pass through
the area, connect Southern Greece with the Northern regions and are also
the main transport arteries to Eastern and Western Europe. In addition,
facilities for domestic shipping are available at Volos. There are
numerous paved roads in the Thessaly plain, and all the project areas are
easily accessible the year around. The number of farm roads to connect
the farmers' fields with the paved highway, however, are inadequate.
IV.  THE PROJECT
Description
4.01      The project would provide irrigation from 1,600 deep wells to
some 40,000 ha of dry farming lands in the Thessaly plain; about 80%
of the wells would use sprinkler systems and 20% gravity systems. Works
to be implemented under the project are summarized below and described in
detail in Annex 2. They include:
(a) drilling 1,600 production wells in the Thessaly plain and
and about 35 exploration wells in Thessaly, Macedonia and
Thrace;
(b) installing pumps and electrical motors;
(c) installing irrigation pipes, distribution canals, and
sprinkler units; and



- 5 -
(d) constructing farm roads and a surface drainage system to
serve the irrigated lands.
All farm holdings in the area would be consolidated under the project prior
to the commencement of works, and farners would be organized into water
users associations (locally known as TOEVs).  Further groundwater expocra-
tions in Thessaly, Macedonia and Thrace would be carried out under the project
with the assistance of a qualified and experienced consulting firm.  The
consultants would also provide technical assistance in well drilling. All
project works are expected to be completed in 1976. A detailed construction
schedule is presented in Annex 3.
Project Works
4.02      Wells.  Project wells would be drilled by the rotary method
(either conventional or reverse-circulation) with a diameter of 49 or
52 cm (19 or 20 in). They would typically be 120 m deep, with yields
between 80 and 120 m3/hr and an irrigated area of between 15 to 29 ha. All
wells would be gravel-packed and have 31-cm (12 in) casings to accommodate
the pump and 21-cm (8 in) casings and screen at depths below 40 m.
4.03      Pumps and Power Supply.  Each well would be equipped with a
water-lubricated deep-well vertical turbine pump.  The average pumping
level would be about 30 m below ground, but, for sprinkler systems, pumpS
would provide additional lift for pressure. Each would be driven by a
vertical hollow-shaft motor (440 v, 50 cycle, 3 phase), operating at
1,450 rpm. Motor sizes would range from 15 to 50 hp, with about 61,150
total installed hp (45,700 kw). Each pump would be housed in a simple
brick structure. Construction of these housing units and the installation
of pumps would be carried out by the pump supplier.
4.04      Electrical energy for pumping would be supplied by the Public
Power Corporation (PPC) at an average cost of 0.65 Dr/kwh, which is
sufficient to amortize the cost of constructing the necessarv additional
distribution lines and the possible expansion of substation capacity.
The annual project energy requirement of about 66 million kwh can be met
from existing generating facilities.
4.05      Irrigation Distribution Systems.  Sprinkler distributior systems
would be used on about 80% of the wells. They would consist of steel or
asbestos-cement main pipelines (150 mm diameter) and portable aluminum
laterals (89 mm) with risers and sprinkler nozzles. The sprinkler hee'd
spacing would be 18 x 18 m, and individual nozzles would have a tpiecal die-
charge of 2.5 m3/hr.  Gravity distribution systems would comprise small
concrete-lined ditches with the necessary turnout structures and checks.
Areas to be irrigated by the gravity method are flat and smooth and would
not require leveling.
4.06      Drains and Roads.  Approximately 1,500 km of surface drains and
an equal length of farm roads would be constructed under the project.
Drains would have an average depth of 1.80 m. Farm roads, which would



- 6 -
generally parallel the drains, would be 5 m wide and be surfaced with
compacted sand gravel. Only about 75% of the land to be irrigated under
the project would require new drains and roads since some areas already
have them.
Water Demand, Supply, and Quality
4.07      Water Demand.  Irrigation water requirements for individual crops
are based on experience with existing irrigation in the area. These require-
ments were reviewed during appraisal and found to be reasonable. The wells
were designed to meet the peak potential demand during the month of July.
On the average, a well would operate about 1,500 hours per season or 15
hours per day during the peak months of July and August. For a typical
cropping pattern, the average annual irrigation water requirement is estimated
to be 6,300 m3/ha.  Estimates are based on the assumption that 80% of the
wells will serve sprinkler systems and 20% gravity systems.  Overall irri-                0
gation efficiencies are estimated to.be 75% for sprinklers and 60% for
gravity methods. Additional information is given in Annex 4.
4.08      Water Supply.  Recharge to the aquifers is primarily from precipi-
tation, infiltration from streams, and, in some cases, lateral replenishment
from karstic limestones bordering the areas. Detailed hydrogeologic data
are available for Western Thessaly. The data for the rest of the plain is
somewhat less detailed but it too is of sufficient quality to indicate that
the quantity of groundwater available for development in each area Is greater
than proposed project requirements. Control of future drilling in the plain
is, nevertheless, desirable to ensure orderly groundwater development and to
avoid overpumping in specific areas. Existing legislation empowers the
Minister of Agriculture to regulate the use and exploitation of groundwater
by declaring an area to be a "controlled area". Once such a declaration is
issued, all further drilling in the area must receive the prior approval of
the Ministry's Land Reclamation Service (LRS) which would also be in charge
of all drilling under the project (para 5.01). The issuance of such a
declaration would be a condition of effectiveness.
4.09      Water Quality.  The chemical quality of the groundwater in all
areas of the project is suitable for sustained irrigation (Annex 4).
Engineering Design
4.10      Responsibility for design of the roads and drains network, as
well as the irrigation canals for wells using gravity systems, would
rest with LRS which would carry out the work using the design division at
the Thessaly regional headquarters or local consultants. All topographic
work necessary for the design would be carried out as part of the land
consolidation. The design standards, which would be similar to those
presently used by the Service, are satisfactory. To improve the design
and construction of wells, LRS has agreed to use commercial well screens
instead of the slotted casings it now uses and to adopt electrical logging
of wells to locate the principal acquifers. These changes would result in
higher yields per well than those presently obtainable.



-7-
Cost Estimates
4.11      Overall costs of the project are estimated to be US$50 million.
Estimates are based upon recent costs incurred by LRS in constructing simi-
lar works and include provisions for engineering, administration, consulting
services, and further groundwater explorations. About 20% for contingencies
has also been allowed. This consists of a 15% technical contingency allow-
ance on all construction items, including provisions for unsuccessful wells,
and contingency for price increases (based on a 4% per-year price in-
crease for civil works and 6% per year for equipment). The estimated
foreign exchange component of the project is US$25 million, or 50% of total
project costs. This amount was arrived at on the basis of the best current
estimates on the outcome of contracts to be awarded following international
competitive bidding (para 4.15).
4.12      A breakdown of the cost estimates is presented in the following
table. Further details on unit prices and a breakdown of cost items per
individual well are presented in Annex 5.
Dr (million)          US$ (million)      Foreign
Items                 Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Exchange
A. Drilling                 198    162      360    6.6    5.4   12.0       45
B. Casings and Screens    ---    190        190    --      6.3    6.3    100
C. Pumps                   106      84      190    3.5    2.8    6.3       45
D. Distribution Systems   138       57      195    4.6    1.9    6.5       30
E. Drains and Roads         117     63      180    3.9    2.1    6.0       35
F. Exploratory Wells         15      9       24    0.5    0.3    0.8       37
C. Operation and Main-
tenance Equipment         5      60      65    0.2    2.0    2.2       92
.l. Consultants               3      7       10    0.1      .2     .3      70
I. Administration and
Engineering              36      --      36    1.2    _        1.2     --
Subtotal         618    632   1,250   20.6   21.0   41.6        50
J. Contingencies
Technical             56      30      86    1.8    1.0    2.8       36
Price                 76      88     164    2.6    3.0    5.6       53
Total Project Cost         750    750   1,500   25.0   25.0   50.0        50
Financing
4.13      The proposed Bank loan of US$25 million would cover the estimated
foreign exchange cost of the project. It would be for a period of 20 years,
including a five and a half-year grace period. The loan terms were set to
coincide, as far as practicable, with farmers' repayment of project costs.
Project costs would be met initially by the Greek Government through budget-
ary allocations to LRS and later reimbursed from the Bank loan, except where
direct payments would be made by the Bank to equipment suppliers or consult-
ants (para 4.17). A breakdown of projected expenditures and a quarterly dis-
bursement schedule are presented in Annex 6.



-8-
Procurement
4.14      Most of the deep well drilling throughout Northern Greece is
presently executed by LRS force account work. 1/ In the Government loan re-
quest, this situation was expected to continue and, less than half of the
project drilling was to be done under contract. During appraisal it was
agreed, however, to limit the drilling on force account to 600 production
wells (37% of the total), in addition to 35 exploratory wells. Aside from
the LRS force account drilling (US$3.0 million), some Dr 30 million (US$1.0
million) worth of contracts for constructing irrigation canals on wells to
be served by gravity would be tendered locally. International tendering
would not be practicable for these works, which would be carried out in
small units scattered throughout the project and executed largely in periods
between crops.  In addition, small off-the-shelf items costing less than
US$5,000 each, which for reasons of economy are not suitable for international
tendering, would be purchased by LRS following regular Government procurement
procedures. Such purchases would be limited to a total of US$300,000.
Including 10 new drilling rigs for LRS, all other project works and equipment
with an estimated cost of US$43 million, would be tendered on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
4.15      Out of 1,000 well drillings to be tendered under the project, Greek
contractors are expected to be successful bidders for about one-half.  All
contracts for the construction of roads and drains, the supply and installa-
tion of pump units, and the supply of portable and fixed pipes and sprinklers
are also expected to be awarded to local contractors or suppliers. A 15%
preference margin would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation
of bids for equipment and supplies. The equipment requirements (Annex 5),
screens, and casings, all which are not presently manufactured locally,
would be imported.
4.16      LRS would be responsible for the preparation of all contract
documents, evaluation of bids, and award of contracts.  To ensure that                0
civil works contracts under the project would be large enough to attract
wide competition, assurances were obtained during negotiations that there
would be only three drilling contracts; one contract comprising 200 wells
and two of 400 wells each (the contracts may, however, include single
schedules of not less than 200 wells) and that individual contracts for
drains and roads would amount to at least Dr 50 million (US$1.67 million).
Contracts of this size would be within the rage of local contractors while
still being large enough to attract international contractors.
Disbursement
4.17      Disbursements would be made against the CIF cost of imported
equipment (US$11.3 million) and foreign exchange payments for consulting
services (US$0.2 million). For civil works and locally manufactured equip-
ment, disbursements would be made on a percentage basis representing the
estimated foreign exchange cost of works carried out by local contractors
1/   LRS is discussed more fully in para 5.01.



- 9 -
(US$4.8 million), foreign contractors (US$3.0 million) and LRS force
account (US$0.7 million); and the estimated foreign exchange component of
locally manufactured pumps and sprinkler units (US$5.0 million). The dis-
bursement percentages are currently estimated to be 37% for both civil
works and equipment. If necessary, these percentages would be adjusted to
distribute disbursements over the project period.
4.18      Disbursements would be made against certified payment statements
to contractors or suppliers and for drilling carried out by LRS against
the project's audited accounts. Savings in any category under the allocation
of proceeds would be made available for overruns in any other category. Un-
disbursed funds would be available for cancellation.
Project Accounts and Audit
4.19      LRS would maintain a separate account for the project, following
current accounting procedures, which are satisfactory. All LRS accounts
are audited annually by the auditor general of the Ministry of Finance.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the project accounts
would be audited annually and a certified statement of such auditing would
be sent to the Bank within six months after the close of each fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Implementation of Project Works
5.01      Project implementation would be the responsibility of LRS, an
agency within the Ministry of Agriculture. The Service, which was estab-
lished under a 1958 legislative decree, is in charge of groundwater
exploitation, secondary and tertiary irrigation canal construction, surface
drain and farm road construction, and on-farm development throughout Greece.
LRS would conduct its project operations out of the Thessaly regional
headquarters in Volos and the field offices in Larisa, Kardhitsa, and Lamia.
The Volos headquarters, which is headed by a Regional Director who would
be in charge of the project, is divided into the following five sections:
planning, including a hydrogeological investigation unit; design and cons-
truction; mechanical cultivation, including a well-drilling unit; projects
administration; and accounting (see Chart in Annex 7). Corresponding
sections in the Athens office would provide technical assistance whenever
necessary. The Athens office would also have responsibility for the prep-
aration of tender documents, review of bids, and award of contracts. LRS
has had much experience with groundwater development and should be able to
perform its functions under the project satisfactorily.
5.02      LRS's drilling program in Northern Greece presently amounts to
about 135 deep wells per year. Under the project, the number of drillings
would reach 160 per year in Thessaly alone, in addition to some 250 drillings
by private contractors and construction of roads and drains for up to 7,500
ha annually. Although the field staff presently employed by the Service



- 10 -
in Thessaly is capable, it is not large enough to undertake such an exten-
sive program. To meet the project's needs, about 200 design, construction,
drilling and administrative personnel would be required in the region
(Annex 7). With the exception of the drillers and some of the test pump
operators, who would be engaged to assist LRS in the drilling to be done on
force account, all the other staff would be required for design and construc-
tion supervision. Existing offices and shops at the regional and field
headquarters would also have to be expanded. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that LRS would assign additional staff to the region and
expand its facilities in the area so that the project drilling program could
be completed in 1975.
5.03      A senior official of LRS in Athens has been appointed as
Project Coordinator.  In this capacity, he would be responsible for
coordinating project field activities with those of the Athens office;
activities of the various divisions in the Ministry of Agriculture engaged
in the project; and project activities with those of other Government
agencies and Ministries.
Proj ect Coordination
5.04      Aside from well drilling, the project would also involve the for-
mation of water users associations, land consolidation, extension, and demon-
stration. The implementation and coordination of these activities at the
regional level is in the hands of the Inspector of Agriculture, a senior of-
ficer of the Ministry of Agriculture, in charge of all ministry activities
in the region, with administrative control over all the field staff, includ-
ing LRS. The Inspector of Agriculture for Thessaly would ensure that LRS
would receive the necessary support and cooperation from the other agencies
of the Ministry; he would also be responsible for initiating and coordinat-
ing the preparation of the project annual plan of operation.
5.05      The Government would also create a steering committee in Athens
to ensure consistency between project works and those carried out in other
regions of the country, to coordinate project activities with those of other
Government agencies and ministries, and to provide the project with broad
policy directives. The committee would be chaired by a senior official of
the Ministry of Coordination and include representatives from the Ministries
of Agriculture and Public Works. The Project Coordinator would act as the
committee's secretary.
Hydrogeologic Studies
5.06      Except in most of Western Thessaly, where considerable investi-
gations have already been done, further hydrogeologic studies should be
substantially completed in each area before drilling is commenced on a
large scale. The principal objective of the studies would be to establish
the location of wells following an evaluation of the quantity and quality of
groundwater resources in individual sub-areas; determine the present use of
groundwater in individual sub-areas; and evaluate the potential effects of
future groundwater development on other water use and the effects of pro-
posed surface water development on groundwater supplies. Further details



- 11 -
of items to be studied are presented in Annex 4. The studies would also
include exploratory dtilling in Macedonia and Thrace in order to upgrade
the available hydrogeological data in those areas in preparation of future
groundwater development.
5.07      Overall responsibility for the studies would rest with LRS, which
would also undertake the collection of field data, preparation of inventories,
collection and analysis of water samples, and performance of geological
supervision of drilling. The Institute of Geology and Subsurface Research
(IGSR) would assist in carrying out the studies and would provide hydro-
geologists, equipment, and laboratory facilities. The Institute would mainly
undertake the surface and subsurface geologic studies, analyses of test data,
and quantitative evaluations.
Consultants
5.08      A consulting firm with broad experience in groundwater development
would be employed by LRS to assist in establishing, directing, and coor-
dinating the overall hydrogeologic studies. The firm would provide a senior
hydrogeologist for 30 months and another one for 24 months. In addition,
it would also supply a drilling superintendent for a 24-month period to
assist in implementing the drilling program and to provide technical advice
and training. An outline of the terms of reference for the consultants is
presented in Annex 8. The employment of a consulting firm under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of loan effective-
ness.
Land Consolidation
5.09      Under an on-going nationwide program, fragmented holdings on
nearly half of the project lands have already been consolidated into single
units. Remaining lands would also be consolidated in order to permit the
rational and rapid development of wells, farm roads, and drains. Judg-
ing by the amount of consolidation work already completed or currently
underway, there should be no difficulty in consolidating remaining holdings
on the project in phase with other works. Consolidation would be carried
out on a voluntary basis, which requires the consent of 51% of the farmers
accounting for 51% of the land. Under this system, each farmer contributes
an equal proportion of his holding for roads and/or drain rights-of-way
without receiving compensation from Government. Following consolidation,
farm holdings would be in one plot or, in a few cases, two plots. The time
required to complete consolidation in any area, once consent of the farmers
has been obtained, is about one year. Project wells would be drilled only
on consolidated lands and assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations. Further details of procedures followed in consolidating hold-
ings are presented in Annex 9.
Project Charges
5.10      Prior to the construction of wells under the project, the Inspector
of Agriculture and LRS would assist farmers in organizing water users
associations, or TOEVs. The TOEVs, which would usually cover between 1,000



- 12 -
and 3,000 ha of irrigated land, or between 40 and 120 tubewells, would be
the owners of the wells. They would also be responsible for the operation
and maintenance of the wells, roads and drains, as well as for repayment of
project charges. The sprinkler units, however, would be the private property
of individual farmers. TOEVs are already responsible for the maintenance of
most of the existing irrigation systems in the country and no difficulties
are anticipated in setting up additional units under the project. About 80%
of project wells are expected to be operated by TOEVs and the balance by
individual farmers or small groups of farmers.
5.11      Once an area has been selected for development under the project
and land consolidation procedures started, a TOEV would be organized. The
TOEV would then discuss with LRS the exact number of wells to be drilled
and whether the system should be gravity or sprinkler. A provisional con-
tract between the TOEV and LRS would also be signed at this stage indicating
the repayment schedule and rates (para 5.13).  A final contract would be
signed after all the works had been completed and actual costs determined.
Project charges would be collected by the TOEV and deposited in a special
Government account in the Agriculture Bank; individual farmers would pay
the bank directly. The bank would charge TOEVs and farmers a 1% collection
fee to cover its own expenses.
5.12      For all practical purposes, farmers in Greece do not at present
pay an income or property tax. On irrigation projects constructed by the
Government, however, farmers are expected to repay at least part of the
cost. In the case of deep wells constructed by LRS, charges presently
amount to about 75% of the capital cost, excluding interest. Project
charges would be set so as to enable the Government to recover the capital
cost, excluding interest and the cost of roads and drains, of the well,
pump and sprinkler equipment. If the cost of these items, which amount to
about US$20,000 per well or approximately 75% of the overall cost is to
be recovered over the 25-year average useful life of the well, annual charges
would amount to Dr 1,000 (US$33.3) per ha. When operation and maintenance
costs are added (para 5.14), the total annual payment would amount to between
Dr 2,200 (US$73.3) and Dr 2,900 (US$96.6) per ha.  The higher rate, which
represents the added power cost due to the use of sprinklers, would apply to
about 80% of the project farmers. Annual payment of project charges and
operation and maintenance costs would vary between 31% and 38% of the incre-
mental farm income (para 6.08). This level of payment is high by comparison
with other Bank financed projects but would nevertheless be within the
farmers' capacity to pay.
5.13      Full repayment of irrigation project charges in Greece presently
starta in the first year after completion of the works, even though benefits
accrue only gradually. As a result, defaults sometimes occur during the
early years of a project. To avoid this problem on the project, it is
proposed to require only partial repayment during the first two years. During
negotiations assurances were obtained from Government that:
(a) participating farmers would pay project charges sufficient
to recover the capital cost, excluding interest, of the well,
pump, and sprinkler equipment over a period not exceeding 25
years; and



- 13 -
(b)  only partial repayment of project charges would be
required during the first two years after completion of
the well.
Operation and Maintenance
5.14      Most project wells would be owned and maintained, along with the
farm roads and drains, by the TOEVs. In areas where individual farmers own
and maintain the wells, TOEVs would still be established to maintain the
roads and drains network. A farmer would pay the TOEV a flat charge based
on the amount of his land receiving irrigation, irrespective of the crop
grown. Annual operation and maintenance costs, including maintenance costs
of roads and drains, would vary between Dr 1,200 (US$40) per ha for gravity
irrigation and Dr 1,900 (US$63.3) per ha for sprinkler systems. A detailed
breakdown of operation and maintenance costs is presented in Annex 10. Ex-
perience to date has indicated that, while the TOEVs have no difficulties in
maintaining the wells and pumps, they often fail to allocate sufficient funds
in their annual budget for road and drain maintenance. LRS, which usually pro-
vides all maintenance services for the roads and drains, at a fixed charge,
has the legal power to force the TOEVs to allocate the necessary funds but
it has usually failed to exercise this power. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that LRS would ensure that the TOEVs would allocate suf-
ficient funds in their annual budget for roads and drains maintenance.
Supporting Agricultural Services
5.15      The Ministry of Agriculture has a large program of applied re-
search carried out by 10 specialized institutes and 22 regional centers
(Annex 11). The research staff is competent and would be adequate to meet
all project needs. The program's main weakness at present is that there
are no demonstration farms through which results obtained at research sta-
tions can be rapidly transferred to farmers. In order to improve this
situation, assurances were obtained during negotiations that 15 demon-
stration plots would be set up in the project areas over the next five years.
5.16      Agriculture extension and training is supervised by a Director
in the Ministry of Agriculture, assisted by subject matter specialists who
advise specialists at the regional level. Responsibility for extension work
in the field rests with the regional Inspector of Agriculture (para 5.04).
The quality of work carried out is good but, with only 45 agents in the re-
gion, the service is short-staffed. The Government has agreed that the
current number of extension agents in the region would be gradually in-
creased to meet the project requirements. It is presently estimated that
a total of about 65 extension agents would be needed by 1975. Aside from
the Ministry of Agriculture, farmers also receive extension services from
the cotton, sugar, and tobacco organizations and agents of the Agricultural
Bank. Taking into account the work done by these agencies, the overall
level of extension agents in the area would be adequate. Agricultural
training would be available through existing centers in the area, and
post-secondary education in agriculture would be provided through a center
to be constructed under a Bank-financed education project (Loan 711-GR)
in Larisa.



- 14 -
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING, AND FARM INCOME
Production
6.01      The introduction of irrigation and drainage would bring about a
shift from the production of rainfed winter cereals to that of more remun-
erative sutmner crops and fruit trees. It would also make possible a substan-
tial increase in production and a greater overall cropping intensity, as
summarized below:
Cropped Area                    Production
Crop                 Present    Future        Present    Future    Increment
----- (ha)                      -- (0T00'ton) ---------
Winter cereals           35,000     9,000           70        32         (38)
Maize                      --      15,000          -          66          66
Cotton (seed)             --        7,000          -          21          21
Sugar beet                 __       3,000          -         150         150
Alfalfa                   1,600     4,300          13       64.5        51.5
Vetch                    1,600      5,700          10         57          47
Tobacco                     700        700        0.7        1.1         0.4
Vegetables                 --       3,300          -          -           -
Fruit trees               1.100     4,000          11         86          75
Total         4OpO00    52,000
Cropping Intensity         100%      130%
6.02      Improved seeds, fertilizers, and agricultural chemicals are read-
ily available throughout the project areas and used extensively by farmers
on irrigated lands.  All credit requirements for purchasing these inputs
are provided by the Agricultural Bank of Greece, which has sufficient
resources to meet farmers' needs under the project. The use of tractors is
widespread; virtually all field cultivation is mechanized. Thus, the
expected standards of agriculture following the completion of the project
would be higlh. Although farm labor is usually abundant, seasonal shortages
do occur especially during harvest time. This would place a constraint on
further expansion of the area of crops with a high labor requirement during
the harvest season, mainly tobacco and cotton. Projected yields under the
project, which are already obtained on irrigated lands throughout the plain,
are expected to be obtained within four years after the introduction of
irrigation. Expected yield levels in tons/ha for the main irrigated crops
under the project are as follows: sugar beet, 50.0; seed cotton, 3.0; fodder
crops, 12.0; wheat and barley, 3.5; and maize, 4.4. Details of present and
projected cropping patterns, yields, production costs, and prices are given
in Annex 12.
Market Prospects
6.03      The most important crops from the project area in value terms would
be fruits (peaches, pears, and grapes), followed by cotton, maize, fodder



- 15 -
crops, cereals, vegetables, sugar beet, and tobacco. Exportable crops
would be cotton, peaches, tobacco and, to a smaller extent, vegetables. Maize
production would substitute for the current large imports while the fodder
crops would enable an output expansion of beef and dairy products, thus also
reducing imports. A description of the marketing outlook for these crops
is presented in Annex 13 and summarized below. In carrying out this analysis,
recognition was given to the fact that Greece is an associate member of the
EEC and, therefore, enjoys virtually the same privileges regarding marketing
as those extended to other members of the Community. Such marketing oppor-
tunities are likely to increase in importance as the country's trade becomes
more closely interwoven with that of the other members.
6.04      The marketing outlook for peaches, pears, and grapes is un-
certain; the absolute size of the domestic market is limited, and prospects
for export to the Western European markets are hampered by excess production
in other countries. Accordingly, only about 10% of the project wells are
expected to be used to irrigate fruit trees. The project is expected, however,
to take advantage of both the early season market and the possibility of
expanding processed peach exports to Western Europe.
6.05      Cotton is Greece's second largest export crop; almost all of
the production is of the medium-staple-length (1-1/16") variety and the
quality is generally high. The expected production of 21,000 tons of seed
cotton from the project area by 1980 represents only 7% of the current
production and could easily be marketed. Existing and proposed ginning
factories in the area could handle the increased volume. There are also
good prospects for exporting seed cotton oilcakes from the area although the
entire production is likely to be absorbed by local livestock enterprises.
Maize and fodder crop production would reduce the current large imports of
animal feed (about 250,000 ton annually) and also serve as a basis for a
livestock and dairy industry.
6.06      Vegetable production in the area would be mainly beans and
watermelons for the local market. The quantities involved are relatively
small and could be readily absorbed. In addition, about 15,000 tons of
tomatoes for processing would also be produced. Tomato processing is already
a well developed industry in the area. Greece presently exports some
133,000 tons of processed tomatoes annually and the added production from
the area, which would be equivalent to about 4,000 ton of processed tomatoes,
or 3% of total exports, would have no difficulty in finding a ready market.
There are good prospects for exporting other vegetables, but success would
depend largely on proper management and export promotion. To the extent
that Greek exporters are successful in capturing a larger share of the EEC
market, production of the project area could be significantly increased.
Farmers' Income
6.07      The projected farm income is based on prevailing farm prices,
including, in many instances, a Government price subsidy. All field prep-
aration and the harvesting of winter cereals were assumed to be mechanized,
while harvesting of all other crops was assumed to be done manually. The



- 16 -
cost of machinery in each case represents the going market rate for hired
equipment and includes the operator's wages. All returns from fodder crops
were valued at their market rate and no attempt was made to compute benefits
from livestock kept on the farm even though the future importance of this
branch of farming in Thessaly is expected to increase.
6.08      About one-third of each farm area is presently irrigated by shallow
wells. Although these lands would not be irrigated under the project,
returns from them have been taken into account in determining the present
level of farm income presented below. Anticipated returns at full develop-
ment on farms specializing in fruit tree production would be considerably
higher than those on farms specializing in field crops (Annex 14). In both
cases, however, benefits at full development would provide considerable
incentive for farmers.  The expected increase in income from an 8-ha farm
producing field crops under sprinkler irrigation, which is the most common
type of farm on the project, would be as follows:
Farm Income
Before          At Full
Development      Development
_____        Dr------------
Gross value of production                            85,000           155,000
Cash production costs                                26,000            34,500
Farm income before operations and
maintenance and project charges                  59,000           120,500
Charges:
Power                                               3,600            10,000
Operations and maintenance                          2,400             5,500
Repayment of project charges                           -              8,000
Cash Farm Income                                     53,000            97,000
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      Drilling of deep wells in the Thessaly plain would result in two
prime benefits. First, the wells would enable farmers to diversify produc-
tion and to produce a wide range of crops oriented toward the export mar-
ket. Second, the project would lead to import substitution of maize and
other animal feed, which in turn, would permit an expansion of beef and
dairy production. Beef and dairy products are presently imported in large
quantities. Direct foreign exchange earnings and/or savings from the
project area would amount annually to about Dr 390 million (US$13 million).
The Project would also provide additional employment opportunities for sea-
sonal labor to some 6,000 farm families who are currently underemployed.
This last point is especially important since employment opportunities in the
non-agricultural sectors are not being created fast enough to absorb the
excess farm population.



- 17 -
7.02      Greece has an intricate system of price subsidies and income supports
for many agricultural products and farm inputs. These measures, many of
which are in line with those of other EEC members, complicate the analysis
of benefits from the project. To overcome this distortion wherever possible,
farm-gate prices used in the economic analysis were derived from projected
1975 world market prices. On the cost side, all production costs, except
for power, on which there is no subsidy, were increased by the weighted
average subsidy level of 20%. The incremental net returns from field crops
used for economic analysis purposes amounted to Dr 7,800/ha (US$260). Future
labor requirements on a typical 8-ha farm were estimated to be 330 man-days
per year, out of which 270 would be contributed by family labor and the bal-
ance by hired labor at Dr 100 per day. Family labor contributions, however,
were not costed since this labor would be available on the farm with or
without the project.
7.03      Project benefits were examined using two types of wells, each
irrigating 25 ha. One well was assumed to produce field crops using
sprinkler irrigation and the other, fruit trees under gravity irrigation.
The economic rate of return on the entire project would be about 18%. It
would vary between 17% on a well irrigating field crops and 20% on a well
irrigating fruit trees.
7.04      In order to measure the project's sensitivity to adverse changes
in benefits, several alternative assumptions were introduced under which the
cropping intensity of field crops was reduced from 130% to 100%; project
costs increased by 20%; farm production costs increased by 20%; the area
under cotton and tobacco reduced by one third; the development period
lengthened from four to seven years; and benefits reduced by costing family
labor. Each of these assumptions was tested independently and the results
show that in no case would the rate of return fall below 10%. Further
details of the economic analysis are presented in Annex 15.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  to ensure that civil works contracts under the project would
be large enough to attract wide competition, there would be
only three drilling contracts; one for 200 wells and two for
400 wells each (the contracts may, however, include single
schedules of not less than 200 wells) and individual contracts
for drains and roads would amount to at least Dr 50 million
(US$1.67 million) (para 4.16);
(b) LRS would assign additional staff to the region and expand
its facilities in the area so as to enable it to complete
the project drilling program in 1975 (para 5.02);



- 18 -
(c) project wells would only be drilled on consolidated lands
(para 5.09);
(d) farmers would pay project charges sufficient to recover the
capital cost, excluding iriterest, of the well, pump and
sprinkler equipment over a period not exceeding 25 years
and that only partial repayment of project charges would be
required during the first two years after completion of the
well (para 5.13); and
(e)  LRS would ensure that the TOEVs would allocate sufficient
funds in their annual budget for roads and drains maintenance
(para 5.14).
8.02      In addition to the customary conditions, the following have
been agreed upon as conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan:
(a) that the Minister of Agriculture has issued the necessary
proclamation to regulate the use and exploitation of ground-
water in the project area (para 4.08); and
(b) that a consulting firm has been employed under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.08).
8.03      With the indicated assurances, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$25 million, for a term of 20 years
including a five and a half-year grace period.
March 10, 1971



ANNEX 1
GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Soils
1.        About 160,000 ha in the Thessaly plain, including most of the
40,000 ha proposed for development under the project, have been surveved
by the Soil Study Survey of LRS and by the Institute of Soils. Th-e soil
surveys are of adequate quality for irrigation planning. New areas to be
incorporated in the project would be surveyed by LRS, which has adequate
staff for this purpose.
2.        All project areas would require surface drainage, particularly in
the plain wlhere soils have a higher clay content, in order to prevent
precipitation and runoff waters from ponding. Prior to the start of sur-
face drainage construction in the Thessaly plain some 40 years ago, there
were numerous swampy areas. There are no significant areas of high water
table within the areas proposed for irrigation nor are any such areas
expected to develop under thc project. Project works would include a com-
prehensive network of surface drains, averaging 1.80 m deep.
3.        Soils in Thessaly can be classified as follows:  alluvial (59%),
terrace (25%/X), residual or upland (12%), and miscellaneous (4%). The
Trikkala-Kardhitsa area, and part of the Tirnavos, Enipevs, and Platicambos
areas, have alluvial soils; terrace soils are found mainly south of Larisa,
while residual or upland soils are found on the plain's border. Most of
the soils are alluvial clays with a hiighi water-holding capacity, which
accounts for the low farm water requirements.
4.        Alluvial soils are flat, with a slope below 3%.  Their pUl is
slightly alkaline (7 to 8) at the surface; 60% are clayey, 30% loamy and
10% sandy. Terrace soils have slopes between 3% and 20%, most of them being
above 8%.. Their pll varies from 5.5 to 7 or 8, and, in general, they are
clayey.
5.        According to the land classification for irrigability, about
300,000 ha are equally distributed between the first three classes, and
220,000 ha fall into class 6.  Althouglh a high percentage of the class 6
land has slopes between 8% and 20%, and is arable and irrigable, there is
no water available for its irrigation development. Class 1 lands cover
large parts of the Tirnavos area and much of the areas surrounding Trikkala
and 1'ardhitsa. Class 2 lands are found between Trikkala and Kalambaka
(gravel soils) and from Farsala to Palamas (texture and drainage deficiencies).
Class 3 land is located mainly in the Karla plain and the Tirnavos area
and present drainage problems due to a high water table.
March 10, 1971






AiBNEX 2
Page 1
GREECE
GROUNDlWKAER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Works
1.        The project comprises 1,600 deep wells, each equipped with deep-
well vertical turbine pumps, driveu by vertical hollowsliaft electric motors.
The wells would average 120 m in depth with individual well yields running
from 80 to 120 O3/hr. The irrigated area served by individual wells ranges
from 15.5 to 29.0 ha, depending on the well yield, crop water requirement,
and the method of irrigation (sprinkler or gravity). Total area irrigated
would be about 40,000 ha.
2.        Total connected horsepower would be about 61,150 (45,700 kw), with
an annual energy requirement of about 66 million kwh. The total amount of
water pumped annually would be about 280 million m3, averaging 174,000 m3
per well and ranging from 133,000 to 205,000 m3 at individual wells.
3.        Water requirements at the pumps would ran e from 5,300 to 8,800
m /ha. Average requirements would be about 6,300 m /ha for a well irrigating
field crops under sprinkler. The rate of f]ow delivered would be 1.15
liters/sec/ha for sprinkler systems or 1.43 liters/sec/ha for surface
(gravity) systems (Annex 4).
4.        Additional features of the project would be the construction or
installation of distribution systems on the irrigated areas, the construction
of necessary drains and roads, the performance of exploratory drilling and
the installation of an observation well network, and the purchase of addi-
tional equipment required for operation and maintenance.
A.   Wells
Introduction
5.        Almost all of the deep wells (50 to 150 m deep) that have been
drilled in or adjacent to the project area were constructed by LRS, either
by rotary or percussion (cable-tool) methods. Typically, a well is 16 inches
in diameter, with a gravel filter between the wall of the hole and an inner
8-inclh diameter steel casing.  The casing with a wall thickness of from 4
to 10 mm is slotted (torch-cut) opposite the water-bearing formations.
6.        Using a commercial well screen instead of the slotted casing
would increase individual well capacity (or lessen drawdown and reduce
pumping lift at present capacity). The 8-inch diameter casing presently
used would be too small to permit installation of turbine pumps of the
desired capacity operating at 1,450 rpm.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
7.        To facilitate preparation of cost estimates, selections were
made during project appraisal as to typical well design, depths, and yield
(Table 1). These typical project wells are described further in the follow-
ing paragraphs.
Design
8.        Project wells would be drilled by the rotary method (either
conventional or reverse-circulation) with a diameter of 19 or 20 inches.
Percussion drilling would not be used because it entails a slower rate of
progress and requires additional casing.
9.        Individual well depths would be determined in the field by project
geologists at time of drilling.  Their decisions would be based upon the
drilling log, examination of samples, and electric logs. It is assumed
that well depths would average 120 m.
10.       Inner casing assemblies would comprise an upper section of 12-inch
blank steel casing for the pump housing (30 to 40 m long, depending upon
anticipated maximum pumping levels), followed by a combination of 8-inch
blank steel casing and sections of 8-inch well screen. Screen lengths and
depth of placement would be determined in the field by the geologists on
the basis of electrical logging results. It is anticipated that the average
total screen length per well would be 20 m in all areas of the project.
11.       A gravel filter would be placed outside the casing-screen assembly.
Screen slot width and the size of gradation of the gravel filter material
would be selected to accommodate the physical characteristics of the aquifer
ma-terials. It is anticipated that three or four "standard" slots and
gradations would suffice.
12.       After the filter was placed, the well would be developed, using
compressed air, surging, jetting, or other standard techniques.  Polyphos-
phates or other dispersant chemicals would ensure complete removal of the
drilling fluid from the filter and walls of the well bore. This thorough
development process would guarantee maximum production of sand-free water
from the completed well.
13.       A 1-inch steel piezometer pipe, perforated opposite the aquifers,
would be installed in the borehole outside the casing prior to placement of
the gravel filter. This pipe would permit observation of water levels
outside the screen to determine efficiency of well development and would
also be useful in evaluating the need for rehabilitation during the operating
life of the well.
14.       The well would be tested with a high capacity, engine-driven
turbine test pump after development was completed. The 24-hour test would
not only permit selection of the proper permanent pump capacity and setting
but provide information on the hydraulic properties of the aquifers that
would be useful in the further hydrogeologic evaluation of the project areas.
During the test, water levels during drawdown and recovery would be



ANNEX 2
Page 3
measured both inside and outside the well casing; the rate or rates of
pump discharge would be established; and water samples would be drawn for
chemical analysis.
Drilling
15.       Aside from 35 exploratory wells, 600 production wells, about 37%
of the total number, would be drilled by LRS, using new drilling equipment
to be purchased as a part of the project. The remaining 1,000 wells would
be drilled by contractors selected after international competitive bidding.
Specifications for the contract drilling would be prepared by LRS. There
would be only three contracts, one for 200 wells and two for 400 wells each,
although each contract may contain single schedules of not less than 200
wells.
Gasings
16.       All well casings would be imported steel pipe, welded or seamless,
in approximately six-meter lengths. Minimum wall thickness would be 0.250
inch (6.4 mm) to ensure adequate strength and reasonable well life.
17.       Casing for the upper part of the well, to below the maximum
anticipated pump setting, would be 12 inches in diameter. Casing below
that point, between screen sections, would have an 8-inch diameter. All
casing for the project would be purchased by LRS (for wells drilled either
by LRS or by contract) after international competitive bidding.
Screens
18.       The screens presently used in LRS wells are torch-cut slots in
8-inch pipe, with each slot typically 4 mm wide and 16 cm long. The open
area provided by this construction, to admit water to the well, is only
about 5% (or less) of the total surface area of the slotted pipe. The
4-mm slot width, however, is too wide to permit use of medium- to fine-
grained aquifer sediments - even with a gravel filter - without pumping
sand, which is damaging to pumps and sprinkler equipment. Proper slot
opening widths for most of the aquifers should probably be 2 to 2-1/2 mm.
Development in areas of fine sands would possibly require that slot widths
be only 1 mm. It is not possible to cut slots by torch much narrower
than 4 mm but widths can be reduced to as little as 2-1/2 mm if slotting
is done mechanically. This, of course, is usually accompanied by a signi-
ficant reduction in open area.
19.       The percentage of open area becomes a critical design factor
when numerous relatively thin aquifers (2 to 5m) must be developed, as is
the case in many parts of the project areas. Attempting to pump high rates
of flow through insufficient open areas, with high inlet velocities, causes
added drawdown. This increases the cost of pumping and may also cause
or aggravate problems of incrustation or corrosion. To provide a satis-
factory entrance velocity, the following lengths of 8-inch screen should be
provided for a well of 120 m3/hr capacity:



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Percent Open Area          Screen Length
(G)                      (m)
2-1/2                     60
5                         30
7-1/2                     20
10                         15
15                         10
20.       Comnercially manufactured well screens are available through
international competitive bidding. These would provide a reasonable percent-
age of open area and they can be supplied in several different slot widths.
Such screens are, typically, either "wire-wound" or machine-punched or of
slotted construction.
21.       Considering the thickness and character of the aquifers, the
desired well yields, and the water quality, it is recommended that 8-inch
screens be purchased that have a minimum 10%' open area at slot widths of
from 1 to 4 Tm (0.040 to 0.160 inch).
22.       In adopting a design for a typical project well, it was assumed
that an inexpensive wire-wound screen would be purchased. It would be
constructed from galvanized low-carbon steel and have an open area of 20%
to 50% (depending upon width of slot opening).
B.   Pumps and Power Supply
Pumps
23.       The project would use 1,450 rpm standard deep-well turbine pumps
driven by vertical hollowshaft electric motors, with typical capacities of
80 to 120 m3/hr. They would be water-lubricated, with a gravity pre-
lubrication tank at each installation. Components and dimensions of
typical project pumps are shown in Table 1. Pumps, motors, and controls
would be purchased by international competitive bidding, which would include
installation and wiring and construction of the pump house. Pumps of suit-
able quality are presently manufactured in Greece.
lotors
24.       Vertical hollowshiaft motors would operate on 440-volt, 50-cycle,
3-phase current and drive the pumEps at 1,450 rpm. Motor sizes would range
from 15 i4p to 50 hp (Table 1) and they would be equipped with a non-reverse
ratchet. No motors of this type are presently manufactured in Greece but one
factory for their construction is scheduled to be built at an early date. It
would be necessary, therefore, to import them, at least during the initial
stage of the project.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Controls
25.       Motor controls would be star-delta type that meet existing
regulations and design requirements of the Public Power Corporation (PPC)
regarding starters of this size. The controls would provide 3-leg protect-
ion against both overload and under-voltage conditions. Acceptable motor
controls are presently manufactured in Greece.
Housing
26.       Pump houses would be constructed at each well.  The houses would
be of standard design, with concrete floor, and walls of concrete block,
brick, or tile. The roof would have a removable section so that the pump
could be taken out or reinstalled or so rehabilitation work could be per-
formed on the well. The meter for electrical energy would be installed on
the outside of one wall by the Public Power Corporation (PPC); motor controls
would be furnished and installed on an inside wall. All wiring between
meter and motor would be done by the pump contractors.
Power Supply
27.       Electrical energy for pumping would be supplied by the PPC for
its present distribution. Facilities would be supplemented as necessary by
new construction (primarily of new 15 kva distribution lines and possibly
some added capacity at existing substations). The project's energy require-
ment could be supplied by existing generating facilities.
28.       Construction of new distribution facilities are done by PPC
under continuing contracts with Greek contractors. About 6,000 to 8,000
km/year of distribution lines are currently being built and there is ample
capacity to include the project needs. Transformers required at the indi-
vidual well sites are manufactured in Greece at two locations.
29.       Both construction and operation and maintenance of the power
supply system for individual meters at wells would be done by the PPC.
The rate schedule applicable to the project (Annex 10) would be sufficient
to amortize the cost of all these items.
C.   Distribution Systems
30.       Distribution systems would be installed under the project to
deliver water to the irrigable area served by each well. The systems would
provide for irrigation, either by sprinkler or gravity method.
Sprinkler Method
31.       The typical sprinkler distribution systems would include surface
main lines (150 mm diameter) of steel or asbestos-cement pipe, submains,
and portable lateral lines (89 mm diameter) of aluminum pipe, and the
necessary risers, sprinkler heads, valves, and fittings. Sprinkler heads



ANNEX 2
Page 6
would be typically on an 18x18 m spacing, with individual discharge of
2.5 m3/hr and a nozzle pressure of 35 m (45 m pressure at the well pump).
Gravity Method
32.       The typical gravity distribution systems would consist of small
concrete-lined ditches, with concrete delivery boxes and the necessary
checks and siphon tubes. Ditches, with a capacity equal to the maximum
pump discharge, would be constructed by contractors using a ditcher for
excavation. Lining would be unreinforced concrete, placed with a continuous
slip-form.
D.   Drains and Roads
33.       The primary drainage requirement throughout the project area is
that it provide an adequate network of surface drains for removal of surface
runoff from precipitation and irrigation. A parallel network of farm roads
would be necessary for farm machinery and project operation and maintenance.
34.       Typical drains would have a depth of 1.80 m, a base width of
0.80 m, and side slopes of 1.25:1.  The roads would be 5 m wide and have a
0.20 m surfacing of compacted sand and gravel.
35.       The maximum density of drains and roads is estimated at 50 m per
hectare. Considering that the project lands would, in part, be interspersed
with existing irrigated areas, which already have some of the drainage and
road network, it is estimated that the project requirement would be 37.5
m/ha. The total project area would therefore require construction of 1,500
km of drains and 1,500 km of roads.
E.   Exploration Drilling
36.       Exploratory drilling, estimated at a total of 7,000 m (about 35
wells, each 200 m deep) would be done as a part of the project in the further
evaluation of hydrogeologic conditions. The exploration program would be
performed by personnel of LRS and the Institute for Geology and Subsurface
Research (IGSR) under the direction of the project consultant. Additional
hydrogeological information, of an exploratory nature, would be available
from the results of the program of production well drilling. The exploration
program for the project is described in more detail in Annex 4.
March 10, 1971



ANNEX 2
Table 1
GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pump and Well Data
Pumps
Irrigation System          Sprinkler       Gravity       Sprinkler       Gravity
Capacity (m3/hr)               80             80            120            120
Total head (m)                 75             30             75             30
Discharge Head Sixe (in)       12             10             12             12
Column Size (in)           6 x 1-3/16       6 x 1        6 x 1-3/16       6 x 1
Column Length (a)              36             36             36             36
Bowls (No. stages and
size in inches)              14-8            6-8           10-10           4-10
Motor and Control (hp)         30             15             50             20
Wells
Yield (m3/hr)                           80                           120
Depth (m)                              120                           120
Static Level (m)                         6                             6
Pumping Level (m)                       30                            30
Sprinkler Pressure (a)                  45                            45
Casing (12") Length (m)                 40                            40
Casing (8") Length (m)                  60                            60
Screen Length (X)                       20                            20
Pumps and Wells
Irrigation System          Sprinkler       Gravity       Sprinkler       Gravity
Number                        420            110            850            220
Area per Well (ha)             19.3           15.5           29.0           23.3
Total Area (ha)             8,100          1,700         24,700          5,100
Grand Total  -  Wells                        1,600
Area (ha)                  39,600
February 24, 1971






GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
WELLS  (No.)                        1971         1972        1973        1974         1975        1976       TOTAL
DESIGN 
CONTRACT AWARD                       (200)        (400)            (400)                                    1 , 0 00
DRILLING (LRS)                         (      (160)       (160)       (150)       (150)                       635
DRILLING (CONTRACTORS)                        (200)       (250)       (300)       (250)                    1 0 0 0
PUMPS (No.)
PURCHASE                             (475)        (420)       (440)       (300)                             1, 635
INSTALLATION                                      (200)       (380)       (430)        (425)1(200)          1, 635
DRAINS AND ROADS (ha)                              (4,000)   (7,500)     (7,500)     (7,500)   (3,500)       30, 000
z
z
CD,
IBRD 5725






GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Irrigation Consumptive-Use (Blaney-Criddle Method,
Thessaly Plain                 Apr.15-30     May       June       July     August       September        Season Total
Aver.Temp. (0C)                 15.1      19.5      24.1       27.3      27.0           22.5                -
Eff. Rainfall                   25        50        30         15        12             35                 167
(mm)
Field Requirements L"
(mm)
K = 0.7 2/                   22        69        105        134       124            74                 528
K = 0.80 W28                           86        124        155       144            89                 626
K   O.864/                   32        95        134        166       154            97                 678
Tirnavos Fruit Area
Aver. Temp. (0C)                14.8      19.4      24.2       27.2      26.8           23.4                -
Eff  R4infall                   18        50        35         25        20             25                 173
Field Requirements l/
(n)
K = O.7O/                    29        68        101        121       116            86                 521
I/For diversion requirement at well, divide figures in table by 0.75 for sprinkler irrigation or 0.60 for gravity
irrigatiom, 
2/Beans, cotton,fruit trees, grapes, melons, peppers, potatoes, sugar beet, tobacco, tomatoee.
3/
3/Barley, vetch, wheat.
4/Alfalfa, maize.                                                                                                           eA
o x
Htt.-



ANNEX 4
Table 2
GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEFWThOPMEINT PROJECT
Net Irrigation Diversion Requirements by Crop and Irrigation Method
',rop             Sprler          Gravity           Irrigation Period
----((m /ha/year)--
Alfalfa                 9,040         11,300          April 15 - Sept. 30O
Barley                  1,520          1,900          April 15 - May 31
Cotton                  7,040          8,800         April 15 - Sept. 30
Fruit Trees             4,250          5,320          April 15 - July 10
Maize - 1st crop        6,720          8,400          April 15 - Aug. 15
Maize - 2nd crop        5,560          6,950          July 1 - Sept. 30
Sugar Beet              4,400          5,500         April 15 - July 31
Tobacco                 4,400          5,500          April 15 - July 31
Beans                   1,810          2,270         Aug. 15 - Sept. 30
Other Vegetables-       5,230          6,540          April 15 - Aug. 15
Vetch Oats (hay)          600            750          Sept. 15 - Sept. 30
Wheat                   1,520          1,900          April 15 - May 31
1/  Melons, peppers, potatoes, tomatoes.
0



ANNEX 4
Table 3
GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Typical Quality of Groundwater
Total diassolved solids (ppm)                            200-450
Electrical conductivity (micromhos/cu, at 250C)           300-600
pH                                                       7.2-8.0
SAR                                                      Less than 2
Residual sodium carbonate (meq/l)                        None
USDA Irrigation water classification                     C2S1






ANNEX     4
Appendix 1
GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Hydrogeologic Studies
1.        The hydrogeologic studies should include the following work items:
(a)  Establish immediately a standard well numbering system,
preferably based on a uniform geographical coordinate
system for all of Greece, and redesignate all existing
well records according to the new system (with appropriate
cross-reference files where necessary);
(b) Prepare an inventory of all existing wells in project
areas; important data are location, owner's name, depth,
water level, yield and drawdown, and annual volume of
water used, with supplemental data on well construction,
pump installation, and water quality when readily avail-
able;
(c) Establish a continuing program for monitoring water
levels (and water quality) in selected observation
wells;
(d) Conduct a test drilling program, coordinated with
drilling of project production wells, to determine
thickness, character, and extent of aquifers (with
lithologic samples, electric logs, and mechanical
analyses);
(e) Conduct pumping tests on new wells and on existing
wells and evaluate test results to determine hydraulic
properties of aquifers;
(f) Perform quantitative studies to evaluate the available
groundwater for future development, the effects of such
development on other water use, and the effects of
proposed surface water development on groundwater
supplies;
(g) Evaluate water quality conditions in all areas and
any possible changes in quality that might occur with
future development; and
(h) Review and modify well design criteria as indicated by
data obtained during the study program.






Annex 5
Table 1
Page 1
GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates
A.   Well Drilling                                                 Unit Price
(Dr/m)
1. Well drilling (including gravel filter
and development)
IRS                                        1,600
Contractors                                2,000
2. Casing, steel, 12-inch diameter,
0.250-inch (6.4nm) wall thickness                     1,200
3. Casing, steel, 8-inch diameter,
0.250 inch (6.4 mm) wall thickness                       800
4. Screens, wire-wound or same thickness as casing           1,050
5. Pumping test (price per well)                             9,000
B.   Pump Installation                                    Unit             Unit Price
(Dr)
1.  Pump foundation and house                       each               7,500
2. Pump installation and wiring                     each               7,000
3. Discharge heads
10 inch                                       each               3,950
12 inch                                       each               5,000
4. Column and shaft
6 x 1 inch                                    zeter                920
6 x 1-3/16 inch                               meter              1,025
5. Bowl assemblies
8 inch, first stage                           each               1,700
additional stage                            each               1,1h0
10 inch, first stage                           each               2,850
additional stage                            each               1,900



Annex 5
Teal
B.   Pump Installation (onttd)                             Uhit       Unit Price
6.   Vertical hollowshaft motors
15 hp                                       each        1L4,5oo
20 hp                                       each        18,300
30 hp                                      each         25,300
50 hp                                       each        35,200
7. Motor controls
15 hp                                       each         7,500
20 hp                                      each          8,600
30 hp                                      each         13,000
50hp                                        each        15,700
8.  Valve, discharge pipe and airline                each          4,500
C.   Distribution Systems, Roads, and Draina                          Unit Price
1. Sprinkler distribution system (fixed and portable
parts for a typical well serving 25-30 ha)                  5,200
2. Gravity distribution system (concrete-lined ditches
for a typical well serving 20-25 ha)                        3,600
3. Roads and drains (37.5 m per ha)                                6,ooo
0



ANNEX 5
Table 2
GREECE
Groundwater Development Project
Cost Estimates
Cost Summary Pump and Well                            Price per Well
(Dr '000)
Drilling - LRS (600 wells)                                   189
Drilling - Contractors (1,000 wells)                         249
Casings                                                      96
Screens                                                       21
PumpL/                                                      119
Total - LRS                                         425
Total - Contractors                                 485
1/  The average pump price would be Dr 119,000 (US$3,970); total number and
type of pumps to be purchased under the project is as follows:
Number of      Irrigation        Pump       Price per      Total Cost
Pumps          System       Capacity       Pumpof Pumps
(m5/hr)       (Dr)        (Dr million)
420         Sprinkler          80        116,ooo          48.72
110         Gravity            80         86,000            9.46
850         Sprinkler        120         132,000         112.20
220         Gravity          120          93,000          20.46
Total 1,600                                                       190.84






ANNEX 5
Table 3
GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Imported EuiprMent
Item.                             Units    Cost per Unit   Total Cost-CIF
(Dr '000)      (Dr million)
Dragline excavator -   1 c.y.            2           1,400            2.8
Dragline excavator - 3/4 c.y.            2           1,000            2.0
Dragline exavtor - 1/2 c.y.             10             800            8.0
Tractors, wheel                         20             160            3.2
Spray equipment                         10             100            1.0
Ditch cleaning equipment                10             150            1.5
Trucks, flatbed                          3             600            1.8
Spare parts (10%)                        -             -              2.0
22.3
Roads
Graders                                  4             600            2.4
Rollers                                  4             300            1.2
Scrapers                                 6           1,000            6.o
Trucks,dump                             12             300            3.6
Trucks, water                            4             300            1.2
Loaders                                  4             600            2.4
Spare parts (10%)                        -             -              1.7
18.5
Wells
Electric power units                    10              50            0.5
Trucks, pipe                             5             400            2.0
Trucks, water                           10             300            3.0
Trucks, puwp installation                8             600            4.8
Trucks, pick-up                         10             160            1.6
Mobile shops                             3             500            1.5
Well development equipment               3             300            0.9
Ccmpressors                             10             200            2.0
Meters and gauges                        -              -             1.4
Well logging units                       3             500            1.5
19.2
Drilling Rigs                               10            3,500          35.0
TOTAL                                                                95.0






GREECE
GROUND'T.ATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
(Dr Million)
1971      1972      1973       1974       1975      1976       Total
Civil Works
IJell Drilling (LRS)            4.0      18.0       18.0       18.0      18.0        -         76.0
Exploratory Drilling (LRS)      4.0      15.0        5.0        -         -          _         24.0
Well Drilling (Contractors)    -          50.0      62.5       75.o      62,5        -        250.0
Irrigation Canals               -         8.2       11.0        4.5       4.5       1.8        30.0
Roads and Drains                -         24.0      5.0       45.0       45.0       21.0      180.0
Sub-total                       8.0     115.2      141.5     142.5      130.0      22.8       560.0
Equipment
Screens & Casings               1.8      47.6       47.6      46.5       46.5        -        190.0.
Pumps                          55.2      48.7       51.2      34.9        -          -        190.0
Sprinkler Units                 -        14.3       36.4      45.5       45.5      23.3       165.0
Operation & Maintenance         -        35.0        -        30.0        -          -         65.0
Drilling Rigs                   -        35.0        -          -         -                    35.0
Sub-total                      57.0     180.6     135.2      156.9       92.0       23.3      645.0
Engineering and Administration    3.0        10.0      10.0      10.0        8.0        4.0       45.0
Contingencies
Technical                       1.2      18.8       21.3      21.3       20.1       3.3        86.0
Price                           -        17*1       30.3      52.1       51.1      13.4       164.0
TOTAL                             69.2     341.7      338.3     382.8      301.2      66.8    1,500.0
US$ million equivalent             2.3      11.4       11.3      12.8       10.0       2.2        50.0
CD 
H o



ANNEX 6
Table 2
GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
I1RD Fiscal Year                            Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                 at end of Quarter
(US$ '000)
1971/72
September 30, 1971                                     _
December 31, 1971                                      100
March 31, 1972                                       1, 000
June 30, 1972                                        5o                            0   -
1972/73
September 30, 1972                                  5,600
December 31, 1972                                    6,200
March 31, 1973                                       7,600
June 30, 1973                                        9,800
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                 10,500
December 31, 1973                                   11,200
March 31, 1974                                      13,100
June 30, 1974                                      16,500
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                 17,300
December 31, 1974                                   18,100
March 31, 1975                                      19,600
June 30, 1975                                      22,000
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                 22,800
December 31, 1975                                   23,600
March 31, 1976                                      24,500
June 30, 1976                                      24,800
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                 25,000



ANNEX 7
PAGE I
GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
|     STEERING COMMITTEE
I (MINISTRIES OF COORDINATION,
I AGRICULTURE, & PUBLIC WORKS) |
_ .
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
GENERAL DIRECTOR,
LAND RECLAMATION SERVICE
(ATHENS)
INSPECTOR                  r--~-- ---'I~
INSPECTOR OF AGRICULTURE -------   PROJECT COORDINATORI
(THESSALY)       l            P                     I
L---------  ---------s
REGIONAL DIRECTOR
(THESSALY)
|TOPOGRAPHICAL    LPLANNING                                                     l
| SERVICE                                                    (HYDROGEOLOGICAL
INVESTIGATION)
|  LAN D  
|CONSOLIDATION                                                    I DESIGN AND
CON STR UCTION
(ROADS & DRAINS)
EXTENSION SEVC
MECHANICAL
CULTIVATION
| RESEARCH |- (WELL DRILLING)
ADMINISTRATION
ACCOUNTS
IBRD-5726






ANNEX 7
Table 1
GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRS Staff at present in the Region and
Personnel Requirements for the Project
Present              Project
Catego                                Staff             Requirements
Design and Constrmctimn
Civil Engineers                                2                    7
Mechanical Engineers                           -                     2
Assistant Engineers                            6                     4
Technical Engineers                            5                    8
Draftsmen                                      2                     4
Agronomists                                   18                     4
Pedologists                                    1                     2
Administrative personnel                      39                   15
Drivers                                       20                   12
Sub-total                         93                   58
Drilling :
Mechanical Engineers                           1                     4
Assistant Mechanical Engineers                 1                     2
Geologists                                     3                   10
Drilling Supervisors                           2                    2
Head Drillers                                 17                   20
Assistant Drillers                            17                    20
Drill helpers                                 34                   40
Test pump Operators and Assistants             -                   30
Mobile Shop Operators                          -                    6
Mechanics                                     63                    12
Sab-total                        138                  146
TOTAL:                           231                   204






ANNEX 8
Page 1
GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Consultants
Drilling Superintendent (1 man - 24 months)
1.        The drilling superintendent should have at least 15 years' ex-
perience in water drilling by rotary methods with equipment comparable to
that to be used under the project (100 m - 200 m depth, up to 24-inch
diameter). He should also have had experience in operating equipment
himself and in supervising other drilling crews.
2.        Principal duties would include:
(a) training drill crews, as necessary, to improve
performance;
(b) giving technical advice on problems encountered
in drilling and well development;
(c)  coordinating Government and contractor operations
to ensure compliance with specifications and to
maintain scheduled progress; and
(d) giving advice on problems involving maintenance
and supply in connection with project drilling
operations.
Senior Hydrogeologist (1 man - 30 months)
3.        The senior hydrogeologist should have at least 15 years' ex-
perience in groundwater investigations and evaluations, including surface
and subsurface geological mapping, test drilling and logging, well inventory
programs, aquifer tests and analysis of data; and estimation of aquifer safe
yield.
4.        Principal duties would include:
(a) providing technical supervision of the staff of IGSR
hydrogeologists and supporting personnel responsible
for evaluating the groundwater resources available for
safe exploitation;



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(b) providing technical supervision of the staff of LRS
hydrogeologist responsible for siting and constructing
production wells;
(c)  coordinating hydrogeologic work by both IGSR and LRS
in the interchange of necessary data and interpretation;
and
(d) providing technical advice in planning the scope and type
of studies to accomplish (a) above in all project areas,
as well as in other possible areas for future inclusion
in the project.
Hydrogeologist (I man - 24 months)
5.        The hydrogeologist should have at least eight years' experience
in groundwater investigations and evaluations, similar to that of senior
hydrogeologist.
6.        Principal duties would include:
(a) assisting the senior hydrogeologist in his duties,
as required; and
(b) organizing, training, and providing technical
supervision, as required, of personnel of IGSR
or LRS who would perform basic field investigations
(well inventories, water level measurements, water
sampling, and performance of pumping tests).
7.        The consultants named to fill the positions described above
would be headquartered in the field (preferably in Larisa).  The con-
sulting firm selected to furnish the personnel shall have had previous
extensive foreign experience, including specific acceptable experience
in the areas of work of these three specialists.
February 25, 1971



ANNEX 9
Page 1
GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Consolidation
1.        Over 90% of all farms in Greece report parcelization, with an
average of seven parcels per holding and an average parcel size of 0.4 ha.
W4hile the situation is somewhat less severe in the plains where the project
would be located, it would nevertheless complicate the introduction of
tubewells, farm roads, and a surface drainage system. Thus, a program
under wlhich the fragmented holdings would be consolidated into single
units, though without increasing the overall size of holdings, would be
desirable. Under an on-going nationwide land consolidation, nearly half
of the project lands have already been consolidated. In the country as a
whole, nearly a quarter of a million hectares in over 400 villages have
been consolidated since the early 1950's, much of it in Thessaly and
Macedonia. Judging by the amount of work already completed or currently
underway in the project areas and the overall success of the program, it
should not be difficult to complete consolidation under the project.
2.        Land consolidation in Greece can be carried out either on a
voluntary basis where 51% of the farmers accounting for 51% of the land
request it or on an involuntary basis where consent of the farmers cannot
be obtained and the Ministry of Agriculture considers consolidation to be
essential prior to the construction of an irrigation system. Over two-
thirds of the land consolidated to date in Greece has been on a voluntary
basis. The proceedings followed in both cases are basically the same,
except that where consolidation is involuntary the Government must compen-
sate each farmer for lands lost for such use as irrigation canals, drains,
or roads. Under the voluntary system, farmers are not compensated for
such losses. All consolidation under the project would be on a voluntary
basis.
3.        The consolidation process usually starts with an educational
campaign among farmers. Once the necessary consent is obtained from them,
or a decision is made to carry out consolidation on an involuntary basis,
an "expert committee" and an "administrative committee" are appointed. The
expert committee, assisted by a survey team, consisting of one topographer
and two technicians belonging to the topographic service of the Ministry of
Agriculture, 1/ classifies the land into categories on the basis of soil
1/   The Service has 250 survey teams, half of them being used for land
consolidation. Each survey team can complete the necessary work for
the consolidation of 1,000 ha in a year and thus the service can
carry out the necessary work over 125,000 ha annually.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
fertility, distance from the village, slope, and the like. Next, all plots
are placed in one of the categories according to their value and expressed
in terms of their worth in relation to the first, or best category land
(for example, 1.0 ha of the first category land is equivalent to 1.3 ha of
the second category land or 1.6 ha of third category land, and so forth).
4.        When the survey is completed, results are posted in the village
for a 10-day period during which time farmers may raise objections to the
classification proposed by the expert committee. Claims are studied by
the committee and a new posting follows. The administrative committee,
which is in charge of land administration, then studies and discusses the
results of the expert committee's survey, after which a last posting of 10
days' duration is made. A provisional land register is then set up, giving
the position, size, hectare value, and ownership title of each plot.
5.        Normally, the above work is carried out in one crop season.  The
following year, a list is drawn up, giving the size of each holding and
its hectare value equivalent. A layout of the proposed irrigation, drain-
age, and farm roads system is prepared and becomes the basic map for land
consolidation.
6.        Next a lottery is organized, in which there are as many tickets
as landholders. The farmer who draws a ticket with number one on it receives
a holding at the place indicated for the beginning of the land distribution.
The size of his lot, which is already limited on three sides by a secondary
canal and the tertiary irrigation and drainage canals, depends on the total
land value he contributed to the reallotment. The land contributed by him
is then expressed in terms of the value fixed by the expert committee for
the strip in which he is to receive his new land, and the new farm boundary
is marked off accordingly.
7.        Next comes the farmer drawing ticket number two, whose holding is
also already limited on three sides, one of them being the boundary of the           *
farmer with the first ticket.  Here again, the boundary for the fourth               W
side is determined on the basis of the original land value and that of the
strip in whith the new holding would be located. Thus, following consoli-
dation all farms have a uniform width determined by the spacing of the
drainage or irrigation canals. Farm roads are constructed along the banks
of all canals so that each farmer has easy access to his plot. A special
lottery is held for owners with very small farms so that their new holdings
can be located in areas where the spacing between canals is smaller than
the area's average.
8.        To avoid unassigned land at the end of a strip, small changes in
the order of drawings can be made, or a farmer may receive two plots, one
at the end of a canal where it is crossed by a road, and another at the
beginning of the next one.
9.        After land distribution is finished, boundary stones are put up
and a definite land register is established by the Land Registration Service
of the Minister of Public Works.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
10.       In the absence of a law prohibiting fragmentation, ownership
alterations continue to take place even after consolidation. On the basis
of current re-fragmentation rates, it is therefore estimated that a new
consolidation program would be required after 20 or 30 years. The Govern-
ment is presently considering a new legislation which would prohibit frag-
mentation.
Marcki 10, 1971






ANNEX 10
Page 1
GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operation and MIaintenance Costs
Power Costs
1.        Using thie Public Power Corporation optional rate schedule allowing
for peak loads, costs would be as follows:
Time of Day                  Rate Sclhedule
(Dr/kwh)
Midnight  -  0700                    0.40
0700      -  1430                    0.65
1430      -  1700                    0.40
1700      -  2300                    0.65
2300      -  Midnight                0.40
The above schedule results in 13.5 hours pumping at Dr 0.65/kwh and 10.5
hours at Dr 0.40/kwh. Average energy cost would thus be Dr 0.54/kwh.
2.        Users would also pay an annual peak demand charge of Dr 120/kw.
With a typical 50-lip (37 kwi) pump, annual demand charges would be:
37 x 120 = Dr 4,440/year
Typical operation for a well serving 29 ha under sprinkler irrigation, with
a 120 m3/hr pump capacity and water demand of 6,300 m3/11a, would be:
29 x 6,300
120       =  1,520 hr/year
Based on the above demand, charge would be:
4,440
1,520 x 37   =  Dr 0.08/kwh
Total power cost thus works out to be:
Energy          Dr 0.54/kwlh
Demand           Dr 0.08/kwh
Total      Dr 0.62/kwh



ANNEX 10
Page 2
For ease of computation, a figure of Dr 0.65/kwh has been adopted in
this report.
3.        The assumed useful life of project works and the annual operation
and maintenance costs are presented below:
Operation and Maintenance Costs
Assumed useful life of project works
years
Wells (including casings and screens)                             30
Pump motors                                                       20
Distribution systems
Sprinkler                                        15
Gravity                                           30
Roads and drains                                                  30
Operations                                                       Cost
(Dr/ha)
(a)  TOEV's administrative charges                              150
(b)  Pump attendance and operation (by farmer)                    -
*c)  Power for pumping /1                                  620 - 1,250
Maintenance
(a)  Wells:  assume chemical or acid treatment, plus
surging of 25% of wells every five years
at Dr 15,000 per treatment                          30
(b)  Pumps:  assume pulling and resetting of each pump
twice in 20 years at Dr 8,000 each; and
complete rep;acement of column and bowls
(50% of total cost) once in 20 years              140
(c) Concrete irrigation canals: 1% of original cost
annually                                            36
(d) Portable sprinkler equipment: replacement of
aluminum pipes and nozzles by farmers as
required                                           100
(e) Roads and drains: including chemical treatment,
at Dr 5/m for all drains                           190
Total (rounded)               1,300 - 1,900
/1   Overall pump efficiencies, 70%; lower rate applies to gravity and higher
rate applies to sprinkler.
March 10, 1971



ANN I IE, 1 1
Page 1
GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supporting Agricultural Services
Agricultural Research
1.        A Director of Agricultural Research in the Ministry of Agriculture
is responsible for the research work carried out by 10 specialized institutes
within the Miinistry. Each is concerned with one of the following subjects:
cereals; forage crops; cotton; fruit trees; olive trees; vineyards; truck
gardening; livestock; soils; and farm machinery. Sugar beet, which is a
relatively new crop in Greece, does not yet have its own institute and
necessary research is carried out by the sugar factory in Larisa and the
cotton institute. The Ministry also operates 22 regional centers that
concentrate on regional problems. In general, only applied research is
carried out, with main emphasis presently on livestock production and ex-
portable crops.
2.        Research work is also done by the Ministry of Commerce through
two institutes -- one in Drama for tobacco, operated by The National
Tobacco Board, and one in Peloponese for currants. Finally, research work
in the field of water management is carried out by the LRS at its research
farm in Thessalonika. At present, no private institutes engage in any
phase of agricultural work.
3.        Research work in the Ministry of Agriculture is performed by
competent staff and is generally satisfactory, although much of it deals
only with technical questions without consideration for the economic aspects
of problems. The weakness of the program at present is that results obtained
on the research stations are not transferred rapidly to farmers. This
weakness is due primarily to the absence of demonstration plots. To improve
the effectiveness of research work, the Government has agreed to set up
15 demonstration plots in the project areas over the next five years.
Extension Services
4.        A Director of Agricultural Extension and Training in the Ministry
of Agriculture is responsible for extension services. He has four sections
under him looking after extension, agricultural education, agricultural
information, and rural home economics. Each section is staffed with subject
matter specialists who serve as advisors to the specialists at the regional
level. The Inspector of Agriculture, in charge of all the Ministry's work
at the regional level, also looks after extension. The quality of work
carried out is good but the service is short of staff.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
5.        Four Directors of Agriculture assisted by 50 extension workers
are presently assigned to the region.  Several of these posts, however, are
vacant.  The GovernmiieiiL has agreed to assign staff to the vacant posts and
employ additional extension workers so that by 1975 there would be 65
extension workers in the region. This number would be adequate, taking into
account the work done by other agencies. Aside from the ifinistry of Agri-
culture, farmers receive extension services from the cotton, sugar, and
tobacco organizations and through the extension agents of the Agricultural
Bank.  This proliferation of extension services, however, weakens their
effectiveness.  A recent reorganization in the tinistry of Agriculture,
under wiiich the Inspector of Agriculture has been given the necessary powers
to coordinate all extension work in the region, sliould improve the situation.
Credit
6.        The Agricultural Bank of Greece, which is responsible for loans
to farmers, has branches in the different project areas that depend directly
on the headquarters in Athens.  This spread of banking facilities has been
beneficial to agricultural development.
7.        Conditions of the loans are favorable to farmers.  The rate of
interest of individual farmers is 5% per annum for short-term loans (cash,
fertilizers, seeds, and pesticides), but it is lowered to 4.25% for farmers
belonging to cooperatives and to 4% for cooperatives and associations of
farmers. For medium- and long-term loans, rates vary according to the kind
of loan, but are usually for 8 to 12 years at a 2 to 4% interest rate.
8.        The Agricultural Bank has sufficient resources to meet the needs
of farmers in the project area. Repayments are generally satisfactory
as indicated by the fact that 99.4t of the loans due in 1968 had been repaid
at the end of September 1970, as well as 92.6% of the loans refundable in
1969.  The following table lists tne seven branches operating in the project
areas and the amount each has provided for short-, medium- and long-term
loans in 1967, 1968, and 1969.
March 10, 1971



GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loans of the Agricultural Bank in the Project Area (1967/69)
Number of  Number of
Branches of the       Farmers     Cooperatives           Short Term Loans        Medium & Long-Term Loans
Agricultural Bank     Served      Served               1967    1968    1969        1967    1968    1969
----  ---(TD  milioT ----------------
Trikka2La           16,900         132              120.8  143.2  159.6          35.4   59.7    58.2
Kalambaka            8,050          91               53.4   35.1    61.6         10.9   19.8   16.7
Kardhitsa           14,,600         98               67.2    86.5  198.6         21.7   76.6    77.9
Palamas              4,000          23               34.0   44.3   66.8          19.6   44.1    30.6
Sofades             ,1,460          31               46.4   55.8    85.9         20.8   56.3   64j.3
Kouzakion            5,560          37               22.5   17.5   21.3           5.0    13.5    9.1
Larisa              15,460         101              226.3  235.8  286.0          48.8   69.2    61.9
TOTAL             69,030         513              570.6  618.2   879.8        162.2  339.2   318.7






GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present Cropping PatterrY
Farm-Gate   Gross Value of   Production   Net Value of    Net Returns from
Crop Area  Yield     Prices        Production        Costs        Production        Project Area
(ha)   (ton/ha) (dr/ton)      --------- (drha) ------------- -d-r million)
Winter Cereals       35,000      2.0       2,600         5,200           2,000         3,200              112.0
(1,770)      (3,540)          (2,200)      (1,34o)             (46.9)
Alfalfa               1,600      8.0       1,000         8,000           1,500         6,500               10.4
(1,700)      (6,300)             (10.1)
Vetch                 1,600     6.o        1,000        6,000            2,000         4,000               6.4
(2,200)      (3,800)              (6.1)
Tobacco (oriental)      700      1.0      30,000        30,000           4,700        25,300               17.7
(5,600)     (24,h400)            (17.1)
Fruit Trees           1,100       -_        __          21,000           5,000        16,000               17.6
(6,000)     (15,000)             (16.5)
TOTAL             40,000                                                                              164.1
(96.7)
I/All prices expressed at current market values including price subsidies; figures in parenthesis indicate
adjustments made for the purpose of economic analysis (see Annex15 for details).
I Xi
1- N



GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Cropping Pattern at Full Developmenti/
Farm-Gate  Gross Value of  Production   Net Value of   Net Returns from
Cro  Area  Yield       Prices      Production        Costs       Production        Project Area
(ha)   (ton/ha)    d o)-                 -    (--                ----------     (dr million)
Winter Cereals         9,000      3.5        2,600          9,100         2,500          6,6oo               59.4
(1,770)        (6,200)       (3,000)        (3,200)             (28.8)
Maize (first crop)   10,500       5.0        2,400         12,000         3,300          8,700               91.4
(2,200)       (11,000)       (3,700)        (7,300)             (76.7)
Maize (second crop)   4,500       3.0        2,400          7,200         2,800          4,400               19.8
(2,200)        (6,600)       (3,200)        (3,400)             (15.3)
Cotton (seed)          7,000      3.0        8,000         24,000         6,800         17,200              120.4
(5,000)       (15,000)       (7,500)        (7,500)             (52.5)
Sugar Beet             3,000    50.0           500         25,000        lQ,000         15,000               45.0
(11,500)       (13,500)            (40.5)
Alfalfa                4,300    15.0         1,000         15,000         3,800         11,200               48.2
(4,200)       (10,800)            (46.4)
Vetch                  5,700    10.0         1,000         10,000         2,200          7,800               44.5
(2,600)        (7,400)            (42.2)
Tobacco (burley)         700      1.5       30,000         45,000        11,000         34,000               23.8
(12,200)       (32,800)            (23.0)
Vegetables             3,300       -           -           18,400         5,200         13,200               43.6
(6,000)       (12,400)            (40.9)
Sub-total          48,000                                                                               476.1             w|y
(366.-7)           C
Fruit Trees            4,ooo       -           -           56,700         9,4100       (47,300              189.2
(10,800)       (145,900)          (183.6)
TOTAL            52,000                                                                                685.3
(550.3)
I/ All prices expressed at current market values including price subsidies; figures in parenthesis indicate
adjustments made for the purpose of economic analysis (see Annex 15 for details.)



ANNEX 13
Page 1
GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPEENT PROJECT
Marketing
1.        Marketing outlooks for peaches, pears and grapes are uncertain.
While local consumption of these products is likely to increase as per capita
income rises, the absolute size of the domestic market, even taking into
account a rising tourist trade, is fairly limited. Prospects for export are
similarly uncertain and would depend largely on better marketing arrange-
ments and the production of high quality produce of the right variety. On
the other nand, problems with sorting, packing and cold storage facilities,
which have hampered producers in the past, have now been largely overcome.
Despite these uncertainties, the final decision on the extent of fruit tree
production would rest with the farmers, wilo at present are anxious to expand
production. For the purpose of project planning, however, it was considered
prudent to limit the number of wells for fruit production to 10% of the
total. This number, of course, could easily be increased or decreased if
the situation should warrant it.
2.        Due to favorable climatic conditions, Northern Greece can produce
high quality peaches and market them on the European market somewhat ear-
lier than any of her major competitors. Labor costs in Greece are low but
this advantage is offset in part by the long distance to the main markets
in West Germany which, aside from cost considerations, also introduces the
problem of refrigerated transport for a short-season produce. Buoyant de-
mand for peaches in West Germany, which absorbs 90% of Greek peach ex-
ports, has enabled Greece to expand such exports from about 45,000 tons in
the mid--1960's to about 83,000 tons in 1970.  Extensive new plantings in all
major producing countries, however, raise some doubt about Greece's ability
to continue to expand her exports at this rate.  A more moderate growth of
export is, nevertheless, expected to continue, particularly of early season
varieties, as the country develops a more aggressive marketing organization
and selects the right varieties for the new plantings.  The Tirnavos area
is especially suitable for the production of peaches for processing and
could compete successfully on the European market with other producers.
There are good prospects for expanding processed peach exports, which are
currently amounting to about 8,500 tons annually, or less than 4% of tlle
demand in Western Europe, and the project is expected to take advantage of
this market.
3.        There is little experience in exporting pears from Greece and the
country is unlikely to succeed in entering this highly competitive market
on a large scale.  Most of the produce from the project area would, there-
fore, be aimed toward the domestic market. As for grapes, Greece already
exports some 20,000 tons annually but, because of high transport costs,



ANNEX 13
Page 2
further expansion would have to be limited to high quality grapes. A major
portion of the project produce would probably be marketed locally as table
grapes.
4.        Cotton is second only to tobacco among agricultural products as
an earner of foreign exchange. Export volume has fluctuated widely from
64,000 tons of lint cotton in 1962 to 32,000 tons in 1965 and back to 65,000
in 1969. Production, at the same time, has been rising steadily and reached
300,000 tons of seed cotton in 1969. Much of the production increase in
recent years has been accounted for by expansion of the area under cultiva-
tion without a significant change in productivity. About 60% of total
output is exported although the country also imports significant amounts
of cotton.  Almost all of the production is of the medium-staple-length
(28 mm) variety.  The quality is generally high and Greek exporters have
no difficulty in marketing all their produce in Western and Eastern Europe.
Project output would reach 21,000 tons of seed cotton in 1980 and could be
readily marketed. Existing and proposed ginning factories in the area
would easily absorb the increased production. There are also good prospects
for exporting seed cotton oilcakes from the area.
5.        Maize and fodder crop production are closely related to beef and
dairy production and are, therefore, analyzed in this context. In recent
years, largely as a result of marketing distortions arising out of handling
of the price subsidies, Greece has failed to meet the rising demand for beef,
dairy products, and animal feed and, therefore, had to resort to imports.
While imports of these products amounted to around US$50 million, or roughly
one-half of all agricultural imports in the early 1960's, they had increased
to about US$110 million, or two-thirds of agricultural imports, by the end
of the decade. Existing distortions in the price mechanism are gradually
being corrected and the required producer incentive restored. As more of
the country's needs are being met from local production, the project output
would be in a good position to take advantage of such demand.
6.        As in the case of peaches, the project area has a comparative ad-
vantage in the production of vegetables. About 40% of the projected in-
creased production from the project area (15,000 ton) would be tomatoes for
processing. Greece already exports some 133,000 ton of processed tomatoes
annually and the added production from the project area would be easily ab-
sorbed. There are good prospects for exporting vegetables but success would
depend greatly on proper management and export promotion. To the extent
that Greek exporters are successful in capturing a larger share of the EEC
market, production in the project area could be significantly increased.
7.        The Thessaly region is not particularly suitable for burley tobac-
co production and no increase in area is expected under the project. Output,
however, would expand as farmers begin to irrigate their crop but such an
increase is insignificant in relation to total production in the country.
8.        For the first time in recent history, Greece expects to be self-
sufficient in sugar during 1970, largely as a result of a bumper beet crop.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
With a low per capita consumption at present and a demand increase forecast
of between 4% and 5% per year, local production would have to be further ex-
panded. The existing sugar factory in Larisa is operating at full capa-
city but capacity could easily be expanded over the next several years to
absorb the increased production from the project. Even without such an ex-
pansion, production from the project areas is expected to replace that from
marginal lands presently supplying the factory. All beet production under
the project would be based on forward contracting with the sugar factory
which would also provide farmers with fertilizers and extension.
March 10, 1971






GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Income at Current Market Prices
A.  Projected Returns from a 25-ha Sprinkler Well
Gross                                                                Labor
Farm-Gate  Value of      Producti?n       Net     Cropped Area   Net Retwirns Requirements
Crop                 Yield     Prices   Production      Costs-       Returns      per  Well       per Well     per Well
(ton/ha) (dr/ton)    --------------(dr/ha)---(----              (ha)          (dr)        (man-days)
Wiinter Cereals           3.5    2,600        9,100         2,500        6,600         6.0           39,600          24
Maize (lst crop)          5.0    2,400       12,000          3,300       8,700         7.5           65,250         190
Maize (2nd crop)          3.0    2,400        7,200          2,800       4,400         3.0           13,200          60
Cotton (seed)             3.0    8,000       24,000         6,800       17,200         5.0           86,000        300
Sugar beet               50.0      500       25,000        10,000       15,000         2.0           30,000        140
Alfalfa                  15.0    1,000       15,000         3,800       11,200         3.0           33,600          80
Vetch                    10.0    1,000       10,000         2,200        7,800         4.0           31,200         16
Tobacco (burley)          1.5   30,000       45,00o        11,000       34,000         0.5           17,000          90
Vegetables                 -       -         18,400         5,200       13,200         2.2           29,040          80
TOTAL                                                                              33.2          344,890        980
Income and Expenditures per 8-ha Farm
(Dr)
Farm income before operation and maintenance
and project charges                                 110,340
Operation & maintenance costs 2/                      5,440
Repayment of project charges                           8,000
Cash farm income                                     9-6,900
1/ For details see page 2.
2t/ Dr 680 per ha, excluding pumping costs which are included under variable production costs; for details see Annex 10.
(DH



GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Income at Current Market Prices
B. Production Costs
Hired                 Labor
Seeds    Fertilizers    Pesticides    Machiner        Power    Labor    Total    Requirements
----------------------------------       ha- ----------------------------    (man-days/ha)
Winter cereals       400          810             -             1,000       290        -      2,500           4
Maize  (lst crop)    200          960            160              700      1,280       -      3,300          25
Maize (2nd crop)    200           680            160              700      1,060       -      2,800           20
Cotton (seed)         90        1,670            800              900      1,340    2,000    6,800           60
Sugar beet           650        2,310            500            3,700        840    2,000   10,000           70
Alfalfa              160          530            240            1,150      1,720       -      3,800          27
Vetch                560          530             -             1,000        110       -      2,200           4
Tobacco (burley)      -         3,300          1,600            1,260        840    4,000   11,000          180
Vegetables 2/                  1,810             800              800        990      800    5,200           35
1/ Including the cost of machine operators which are not shown under labor requirements.
2/ Represents the weighted average for green beans (66% of the vegetable growing area) and tomatoes,
watermelons and potatoes (11% each).
03 &
CD X
JH



GREECE
GROUNDW4ATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECTf
Farm Income at Current Market Prices
A. Projected Returns from Fruit Trees under a 25-ha Well
Labor
Gross Value       Production    Net      Cropped Area   Net Returns  Requirements
Yield   Price    of Production        CostsV/  Returns       per Well        per Well    per liell
(ton/ha)(dr/ton) ----- hTdrha -------                          (ha)             (dr)      (man-days)
Peaches              25    2,500         62,500          6,600       55,900       12            670,800        960
Pears                20    3,000         60,000          6,600       53,400         8           427,200        640
Grapes               15    2,500         37,500          5,400       32,100         5           160,500        350
TOTAL                                                                           25          1,258,500      1,950
Income and Expenditures per 2-ha Farm
Farm income before operation and maintenance                 (Dr)
and project charges                                        100,700
Operation and maintenance costs 2/                           1,300
Amortization of establishment  costs                         6,000
Repayment of project charges                                 1,800
Cash farm income                                            91,600
1/ For details see page 2.
2/ Dr 650 per ha, excluding pumping costs; for details see Annex 10.
CD H W
CD X
H
N)H



GREECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Income at Current Market Prices
B. Establishment and Production Costs
Labor         Establis wment
Fertilizers    Pesticides     Machiner yl     Power     Total    Requirements         Costs /
._______________________________ .dr7ha)______________- - -------  man-days/ha)       cdr/ha
Peaches               3,200           2,000          750          650      6,600          80             55,700
Pears                 3,200           2,000          750          650      6,600          80             51,700
Grapes                2,800           1,200          750          650      5'400          70             49,000
1/ Including the cost of machine operators which are not shown under labor requirements.
2/ Assuming a development period of six years and disregarding interest.
aq M
ro
rH
d                                                  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



ANNEX 15
Page   1
GUEECE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economwc Rate of Return
i.        Assumptions made in evaluating project benefits from a typical
pro-ect well serving 25 ha and using sprinkler irrigation are presented
below.
,a)  Prices - farm-gate prica! for commodities that enter
readily into international trade are based on 1975 world
market price forccasts prcpared by the Trade Policies
and Export Pro  cim-a Division of IBRD's Economics
Department. The co modities and prices are as follows:
US$/ton
Wheat                                  59
Maize                                  73
Cotton (seed)                         166
Tobacco                             1,000
Peaches                                83
Pears                                 100
All other prices are based on prevailing local prices, excluding Government
price subsidies.
(b) Development period - projected yield levels and net returns
are expected to be obtained by the fourth year after the
introduction of irrigation. The rate of growth expressed in
terms of percentage of the incremental net value of production
would be 40% in the first year, 60% in the second year, 802
in the third year, and 100% by the fourth year. All invest-
ments associated with a well are assumed to take place in
year 1 and benefits to start to accrue in year 2;
(c) Project costs - the cost of exploratory drillings (which would be
carried out mainly in Macedonia and Thrace), operation and
maintenance equipment (the depreciation of which is included
under annual operations and maintenance costs), and price
contingencies, amounting to US$6.4 million were deducted
from the total project cost of US$50 million. On this basis,
the cost of a well on the project would be US$27,200, or
US$1,100/ha;
(d) Production costs - family labor contribution of 50 man-days
per month per farm, which would be available with or without
the project, were not costed. All other labor requirements,



ANNEX 15
Page  2
including the cost of farm machinery operators, have been
costed at the going market rate of Dr 100 per day. All pro-
duction costs, except for pumping power charges, were further
increased by 20% to compensate for Government subsidies on
farm inputs such as seeds, fertilizers, and pesticides (for
details, see Annex 12);
(e) Replacement, operation, and maintenance costs - these are the
same as those presented in Annex 10;
(f) Net returns - these were adopted from Annex 12. Returns from
field crops for a 25-ha well amount to about Dr 60,000 at present
and about Dr 254,700 in the future.  For fruit trees, present
returns are the same as those for field crops, and future
returns at full development in year 8 amount to Dr 1,147,500.
2.        Two types of wells were examined:  one specializing in fruit
tree production and the other in field crops. Project costs and incremental
net benefit streams used in calculating the economic benefits from these two
wells are shown below. Aside from examining returns from individual wells,
an analysis was also made for the entire project using the basic assumptions
outlined in para 1. The incremental net benefits and project cost streams
are illustrated in the table on page 3.
A. 25-ha Gravity Well Producing Fruit Trees
Investment and              Total    Incremental   Net Well
Year               Replacement      0 & M      Costs     Benefits     Benefits
-------------------------- (Dr)--------------------------
1                   800,000         -      800,000         -         -800,000
2                      -          14,500    14,500      -922,000     -936,500
3                      _                                -251,000     -265,500
4                       _                               -226,000      -240,500
5                                                        3 -  2,000  - 16,500
6                       _                                311,000      296,500
7                                                        675,000      660,500
8-20                      -         14,500    14,500    1,087,500    1,073,000
Rate of Return: 20%
B. 25-ha Sprinkler Irrigation Well Producing Field Crops
1                   825,000         -      825,000         -         -825,000
2                      -          16,200    16,200        77,900       61,700
3                      _                                 116,800      100,600
4                       _                                155,800      139,600
5-19                                                       194,700      178,500
20                   130,000                146,200       194,700       48,500
21-30                     -         16,200    16,200       194,700      178,500



ANNEX 15
Page   3
ProJect Costs and Benefits Streams
Investment &                Total   Incremental  Net Project
Year        Replacement    0 & M        Cost       Benefits    Benefits
---------------------- (Dr iuilions) ----------------------
1971             79           -           79           -          -79
1972            305           -          305           -         -305
1973            310            3         313          -64        -377
1974            303            9         312          -55        -367
1975            258           16         274           49        -225
1976             56           22          78          133          55
1977             -            26          26          235         209
1978             -                                    328         302
1979             -                                    414         388
1980/91                                   2 6         454         428
1992             24                       50          454         404
1993             48                       74          383         309
1994             48                       74          312         238
1995             48                       74                      238
1996             24                       50          4,          262
1997/2002        -            26          26          312         286
2003             -            23          23          273         250
20014            -            17          17          195         178
2005             -            10          10          117         107
2006             -             3           3           39          36
Rate of Return 18%.
3.        In order to measure the impact of adverse changes in the assuaptions
made on projeot benefits, several other cost and benefit streams were examined.
These changes and their impact on the Rate of Return are as follows:
Rate of Return (%)
Field    Fruit    Entire
Crops    Trees    ProJect
Change
(a)  Cropping intensity reduced to 100%                     13        -        14
(b)  Project costs increased by 20%                         15        19       15
(c)  Farm production costs increased by 20%                 15       18        15
(d) Area under cotton and tobacco decreased
by one-third                                         16       -         16
(e)  Development period extended to seven years             15        -        16
(f)  Benefits reduced by costing family labor               10       17         -
Ihreh 1s, l971






I22O007                         2                                           BUGARIA
GREECE                           t                                    ||IA
GROUNDWATER  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT                                   IV~ i~ALAA{IY~~TRE
THESSALY                                                                                                                     URKEY
Regional boundaries                     \
;'  --N  Nomos boundaries                                                                                                   SEAO
_4000'                Roadlas                                    \    |       X                                              trr
Elevation over 200 meters   <                                               /
0    20    40   60  00 KM
ilLO. *  '   =    _   f                                                                  ,                     s asson 
Sea   of  Cr-ete
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
>)             PROJECT AREAr      lio      
/%001~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-             ~~2 KARDHITSA - ENIPEVS           ,                            
3. TIRNAVOS            (     g     r          -           a    e          >         m        )       Ae
4. SIKOURION                        CENRA                                         -W GREC                                    3000
-39300' 0N                                                            AGR               C-S                                                          3900'
21030'                         22000'        f92230'                    To Larnna      Athens  J  /2300d 
JANUARY 1971                                                                                                                                     IBRO- 3298



