Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4/Z /z                9 I - i
Report No. P-4549-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 137 MILLION
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR AN
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
MARCH 22, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a
basket of reference currencies, with the US Dollar serving as the
intervention currency. The official exchange rate on January 1, 1989 was
Tk 32.27 per US Dollar.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Kg           Kilogram
kW           Kilowatt (= 1.341 horsepower)
Mw           Megawatt (thousand kilowatts)
MVA    =     Megavolt-ampere (thousand kilovolt amperes)
kWh    =     Kilowatt hour (- 860.42 kilocalories)
GVh    =     Gigawatt hour (million kilowatt hours)
kV     _     Kilovolt (thousand volts)
km           Kilometer (0.6214 mills)
bbl          Barrel (0.159 cubic meters)(m3)
bcf    2     Billion cubic feet (1 cubic foot - 0.0Z8 m3)
tcf          Trillion (1,000 billion) cubic feet
btu          British Thermal Unit (0.252 kilocalories;
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      -     Asian Development Bank
ADP      -     Annual Development Programme
BGFCL    -     Bangladesh Gas Fields Company Limited
BGSL     -     Bakhrabad Gas System Limited
BOGMC    -     Bangladesh Oil, Gas and Minerals Corporation
BPC      -     Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation
BPDB     -     Bangladesh Power Development Board
CIDA     -     Canadian International Development Agency
DESA     -     Dhaka Electricity Supply Authority
EKL      -     Eastern Refinery Limited
GDP      -     Gross Domestic Product
IPC      -     Imports Program Credit
JGTDC    -     Jalalabad Gas Transmission and Distribution Company
KfW      -     Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (Federal Republic of Germany)
LPG      -     Liquified Petroleum Gas
NGO      -     Non-Governmental Organization
ODA      -     Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
OECF     -     Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PBS      -     Palli Bidyut Samity (Rural Electrification Cooperative)
PFP      -     Policy Framework Paper
PIP      -     Priority Investment Program
REB      -     Rural Electrification Board
SAF      -     Structural Adjustment Facility
SFYP     -     Second Five-Year Plan
SGFL     -     Sylhet Gas Fields Limited
TFYP     -     Third Five-Year Plan
TGTDC    -     Titas Gas Transmission and Distribution Company Limited
TOR      -     Terms of Reference
UNDP     -     United Nations Development Programme
UNDTCD   -     United Nations Department for Technical Cooperation and Development
USAID    -     Urited States Agency for International Development



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page Nos.
CREDIT SUMMARY
Is   THE ECONOMY ...............                             I........................  1
Background ..........................................                         I
Recent Economic Developments ... ........................ .....               2
Development Strategy and Medium Term Prospects ........O.....                 3
Financing Needs and Prospects ...              ...... ...... ............     6
II.     BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY IN BANGLADESH ...............                   7
III.   ENERGY SECTOR ...........  .....o....o...**                                        10
Energy Resources ............. . ........... . . . ........ ...    10
Energy Consumption and Demand ..............................                 11
Sector lnstitutions i...... ...                     ...... **.......*        12
Private Sector Participation in the Energy Sector ..........                 13
Government's Energy Sector Strategy    ...................                   13
IDA's Energy Sector Assistance Strategy ....................                 14
IV.     ADJUSTMENT STRATEGYs DEVELOPMENT OF THE ENERGY SECTOR ..... .....                 16
A.  Energy Sector and the Macroeconomy .........................                 16
B.  Energy Resource Development and Investment .................                 16
Priority Investment Program               .............................  17
Long-Term Least Cost Development Plans ..................    16
C.  Energy Pricing and Demand Management .......................                 21
Energy Prices ......................................................     22
Energy Conservation ...... *...... ** *.**...* .... .. ......            25
D.  Institutional Performance and Development ..................    26
Reform of BPDB . ......................... ... .. ..*. ...   ..... .    26
Reduction of Power System Losses ........................                27
Reorganization of the Gas Subsector .....................    28
Accounts Receivable and Payable .........................    29
Traditional Energy ......................................                30
V.      THE CREDIT *. ot .**....... se .... ***.......                        .......     31
Background .........................................................        31
Procurement and Disbursement ...............................                32
Tranching .........................................................    33
Cofinacing .. *....................................... .....    33
Benefits and Risks *......... .             ...............................    33
VI.    COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF *.........................                      ...     33
VIZ.   RECOMMENDATION .......34
This documnt ha a restrid disibution and may be ued by rdpits only in the pWformn e
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authodzain.



Annex I     *      conomic Indicators
Annex II    s    Status of Bank group Operations ix lngladesh
Annex III   %    Supplementary Data Sheet
Annex IV    I    Government's Letter of Sectoral Policy
Annex V     I    Development Policy Katrir
Annex VI    t    Priority Investment Program and FinzancIg Plan



BANGLADESH
NERGY SECTOR ADJUSTNENT CREDIT
Credit Summary
Borrower                 I   People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount                   I   SOR 137 million (US$175 million equivalent)
Terms                   a   Standard, with 40 years maturity
Purpose                  s   The credit would provide foreign exchange to
finance general imports. The credit would support
the Governments reform program in the energy
sector, as ouclined in the Government's Letter of
Sectoral Policy (Annex IV), from the Government to
IDA, and assist in the lmplementation of the
Government's priority investment program for the
period FY89-91. The reform program consists of a
number of significant improvements in the areas of:
resource development and investment; energy pricing
and demand management; and institutional
performance and development.
Disbursements            s  The proposed credit would be available for
disbursement In two tranchest SDR 58.71 mil'ion
(US$75 million equivalent) upon credit
effectiveness and the remaining =DI 78.29 million
(US$100 million equivalent) subject to the
Gvoernment meeting the specific conditions listed
In Annex V. It Is expected that credit
disbursements of about US$115 million equivalent
would take place in MY90 and US$60 million
equivalent in PY91.
Cofinancina             I   The Govermnent of the Federal Republic of Germany
proposes to provide, through parallel financing
under terms and conditions similar to those for the
proposed project, a grant of DU 26 million to
finance general imports.  further, the Government
of Japan has indicated that following Board
approval it would consider the provision of
supplementary financing for the proposed credit.



-ii-
Benefits                a   The proposed credit would make a major contribution
to the achievement of Bangladesh's objectives for
the energy sector development. The credit's
preparation has assisted the Government in
undertaking a program of sector-wide reforms
urgently needed to improve the sector's performance
and net contribution to the Budget.  Consequently,
the major benefits would includes a more efficient
allocation of resources; improved investment
planning; improved financial viability of energy
sector entities; the mobilization of additional
resources for the Budget; and the removal of
institutional constraints to the energy sector's
efficient development.
Risks                   s   The major risk of the proposed Energy Sector
Adjustment Credit is that political events may
impede implementation of the reform program.
However, to date the Government has demonstrated a
strong commitment to a gradual rationalization of
energy sector policies and, in many cases, his
successfully implemented measures involving
politically difficult decisions.



INTERNASTIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECO)N ENDATION OP THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
1.       I submit the following  report  and  recummendation for a proposed
Energy Sector Adjustment Credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for
SDR 137 million (US$175 million equivalent), on standard IDA terms with
40 years maturity, to provide foreign exchange for financing general
imports. The credit would support the Government in implementing policy
and institutional reforms in the energy sector.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.       A   Country   Economic   Report,   'Bangladesh2   Recent  Economic
Developments and Short-term Prospects (Report No. 7596-BD, dated March 13,
1989), was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 17, 1989.
Background
3.       Bangladesh has a very high  population  density, limited natural
resources and widespread poverty.   Annual  per capita income is only about
US$160 (1986); its continued high rate of population growth remains a major
constraint on development.
4.       Agriculture is the mainstay of  the economy, accounting for almost
half of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and exports, and three-quarters of
employment. Foodgrain production, which accounts for two-thirds of agri-
culture, remains vulnerable to natural disasters, and the country continues
to require annual foodgrain imports of about one-tenth of total consump-
tion. Moreover, agriculture has not been able to fully absorb the rapidly
growing labor force nor generate adequate foreign exchange earnings.
Therefore, growth in industry, which accounts for about 10 of GDP, and
expansion in labor-intensive exports have become important for achieving
employment and balance  of payments objectives.   However, the Bangladesh
labor force's lack of skills and education and poor health and nutrition
impede this transition. The adult literacy rate is only about 29Z, and per
capita public expenditure on education is among the lowest In the world.
Other constraints on industrial development include weak infrastructure
(power, transportation), inefficient public enterprises, restrictive trade
policies and a weak domestic financial system.
5.       The economy is  also  characterized  by  a very low savings rate,
which in part reflects the low level of incomes, and by a large structural
payme:'s gap. Remittances account for half of national savings, which in
turn finance about half of total investment in the economy. Export
earnings cover only about 402 of the import bill, although non-traditional
exports have grown  rapidly  in  recent  years.    The  capacity to finance



-2-
imports can be severely affected by external factors (such as falling jute
prices) largely beyond  the  Government's  control.   Inadequate growth in
domestic resources also seriously constrains the financing of key public
sector investments as well as the operation and maintenance of existing
assets.
6.       Despite  these  constraints  and  repeated  disruptions  caused by
natural disasters, Bangladesh has made significant progress in the 19809.
Notably, policies designed to strengthen the agricultural, industrial and
export sectors have been adopted, permitting the economy to grow by about
d' per year during the Second Five-Year Plan (SPYP) (MYOl-85). Foodgrain
production growth averaged 3.01 per year during the same period, despite
adverse weather conditions.    Industrial  output, which  stagnated in the
early 19809, rebounded in the same period. led by import substitution in
the chemicals sector and export-oriented, labor-intensive activities. Non-
traditional exports have grown on average by over 202 per year in the
1980s, and development of domestic comercial energy supplies, especially
natural gas, has increased rapidly, enabling relatively high growth in the
power and fertilizer sectors and significant import substitution of
petroleum products.
Recent Economic Developments
7.       The Government  has  continued  to  make  progress  during nr86-88
towards creating  a  stable  and  undistorted  economic  environment.   Its
adjustment efforts are being supported by the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) under a third year Structural Adjustment Facility drawing for FY89
(Part VI of this  report)..   Macroeconomic  management  has been generally
cautious. Monetary expinsion has been brought under control, and in
response to prudent demand management, the balance of payments and budget
deficits have been brought down to manageable levels, external reserves
have improved to the equivalent of over three months' imports and the
snnual rate of inflation Is now about 102. The official exchange rate has
been adjusted frequently in small steps to mprove and maintain competi-
tiveness. In addition, the authorities have sipificantly expanded the
share of transactions conducted at the (free) secondary market rate, while
the gap between the official and secondary exchange rates was narrowed from
15S in FY85 to 22 in November 1988. Although the country's budgetary and
financial position  has  strengthened  considerably,  public expenditures,
particularly for investment and operations and maintenance, need to be
substantially increased to meet pressing development needs.
8.       Although deposit interest  rates  have  declined  in real terms in
recent years, they are still positive and are for the most part sufficient
to encourage savings. However, there is a need to increase the flexibility
of lending rates' structure to ensure an adequate flow of credit and the
financial viability of lending institutions. Agriculture pricing policies
are generally more realistic than in many other countries; announced
support prices to farmers generally reflect international prices, although
support prices have not been consistently made fully effective through
adequate domestic  procurement.    Finally,  trade  and Industrial policies
(tariffs, quotas, restrictions and licenses) have been Improved markedly
since 1982, but  especially  in  the  last  three  years.   However, these
improvements are only the early steps in a phased program, and distortions
in the trade system, especially those brought about by high and variable
tariffs and quantitative restrictions, are still excessive.



-3-
9.       the last  few years have  also witnessed  some disappointments.
Overall real GDP growth averaged only  31  in M7 and FY88. well below the
Third Five-Year Plan (TMYP) (FY86-90) goal of 5.4Z and is expected to be
only 1.22 in FY89. Disastrous floods, insufficient attention to short-term
economic management, and political uncertainties contributed to the slow-
down In economic growth. Growth momentum in the agricultural sector has
slowed down since the add-eighties, in part due to floods, but also due to
a slowdown in the lmplementation of minor irrigation programs, reduced
credit availabllity as a result of measures necessary to collect overdues,
and institutional problems.   In  view  of this  slowdown, the Government
recently initiated a major review of the agriculture sector with UNDP
assistance, to identify  problems  and  correctiv  measures.  Manufacturing
growth has averaged less than 3S over the past two years, largely
reflecting low income generation in the economy and insufficient demnud for
industrial goods. Domestic resource mobilization is still inadequate and
needs to be improved significantly.  Resulting shortages of local counter-
part funds for development projects, as well as deficiencies in project
planning and preparation, have also contributed to continuing difficulties
in  project  implementation.   As a  consequence,  public  investment has
declined in real terms and has not provided the stimulus needed to
resuscitate the economy in view of the recessionary pressures brought on by
the recent floods.
Development Strategy and Medium Term Prospects
10.      The  alleviation  of poverty   remains  the  cornerstone  of  the
Government's development strategy. In the first ten years of Independence
(1972-1981), the proportion of the population in extreme poverty (those
unable to afford enough food to live a reasonably active life) rose from
43S to 50. Real wages fell, and the quality of the diet worsened. Since
1982, this deterioration appears to have been arrested. More food was made
available to lower income groups, partly through the rapid expansion of
Food for Work and Vulnerable Group Development programs, and real agricul-
tural wages rose, recovering to their pre-Independence levels in 1986 for
the first  time.    The  incidence  of poverty  appeared  to have declined
slightly during FYOl-86, although the absolute number of poor had continued
to increase and the magnitude of poverty remained overwhelming. However,
in the last two years, the stagnation of the economy and direct and
indirect consequences of major natural disasters appear to have reversed
the improving trend observed in the early eighties.
11.      Bangladesh needs to revive and accelerate the momentum of economic
growth and development as soon as possible. The economic stagnation of the
last two years makes this need even more imperative than before. Without
significant acceleration of economic growth it will not be possible to make
even modest strides In alleviating extrem poverty and improving the living
standards of the vast majority of the population. The Government fully
recogn ses this need; and its most recent Policy Framework Paper (PiP),
prepared in consultation with the IMF and the Bank, articulates a macro-
economic framework (summarized In Table 1) and requisite policy reforms to
achieve such a  goal.    The  PFP  recognizes  that, to accelerate economic
growth and development it will be essential to significantly improve
economic  performance  in  the   key  productive  sectors--agriculture  and
industry--(to generate incomes, employment and export earnings) which have
been lagging in recent years; at the same time, it also recognizes that



-4-
Table 1 REY ECONOMIC PROJECTIONS : FY88-PY91
PY88       FY89        FY90      FY91
Estimate     ----Proiectionb------
GDP growth rate                         3.0 a/       2.0 a/      5.8      4.8
GDP deflator b/                         9.8         11.5         8.0      7.0
Consumer prices bl                     11.4         11.5         8.0      7.0
GDP per capita growth rate             -0.7         -0.5         3.3      2.3
Consumption per capita growth rate
Gross investment/GDP                   12.0 a/     12.8 a/      13.5     14.2
Domestic savings/GDP                    2.2          1.3         3.4      4.0
National savings/GDP                    6.3          5.2         7.0      7.4
Marginal national savings rate
Public investment/GDP cl                5.9         6.4          6.9      7.4
Public savings/GDP cl                   0.6          -           0.9      1.1
Private investment/GDP c/               6.1         6.4          6.6      6.8
Private savings/GDP cl                  1.5         1.3          2.5      2.9
Ratio of publiciprivate investment
Government revenue/GDP                  8.8         9.2          9.5      9.8
Government expenditure/GDP             16.3        16.8         17.2     17.5
Deficit (-)/GDP                        -7.3        -7.6         -7.7     -7.7
Export growth rate                     14.6         2.5         14.9     11.4
Non-traditional export growth rate    32.5          6.5         21.7     18.5
Exports/GDP                             6.3         6.1          6.4      6.5
Non-traditional exports/GDP             3.3         3.3          3.7      4.0
Import growth rate                     14.0        15.5          1.9     10.9
Imports/GDP                            15.3        16.6         15.4     15.7
Current account (in US$ million)    -1,111       -1,575       -1,472   -1,689
Current account/GDP                    -5.7        -7.6         -6.5     -6.8
Aid disbursements (in US$ million)   1,641        1,677        1,707    1,908
Aid disbursementsITD?                   8.4         8.1          7.5      7.7
Debt service (in US$ million)           526         568          652      703
Debt service ratio d/                  22.6        23.8         25.1     25.1
Debt service/GDP                        2.7         2.7          2.8      2.8
al The Policy Framework Paper estimated growth  in FY88 at 3.92, but this is
now revised to 1.82 on the basis of BBS data; simllar, for FY89. 22 is
the upper range of the CZM estimate of 1-22. More recent estimates are
also lower for investment and savings ratios.
b/ Percentage increase in annual average price level.
c/ ovwing to data limitations, operating surpluses and deficits of public
enterprises are included in private savings, while a portion of public
enterprises' investments (what which is channeled tarough the Annual
Development Plan is included in public sector investment.
d/ Debt service as a percentage of receipts from exports of goods and
services; and private transfers.
Source: Bangladesht Policy Framework Paper, 1988189-1990/91.
November 14, 1988.



-5-
special efforts through targeted programs would be needed to improve the
conditions of the extremely poor who might not directly benefit from the
growth process. The PFP outlines broad directions of policy refonms and
investment and resource needs (both domestic and external) over the next
three years to  achieve  these  objectives.    While  it will be virtually
Impossible to attain these goals without substantial additional resources,
significant mprovements In the mobilization, management and utilization of
the limited available resources by the Government will also be needed.
12.      The Government's Third Five-Year  Plan  (CFYP) for FY86-90 and its
PFP for FY89-91 as well as the Bank's recent Country Economic Memoranda
identify policy, institutional and resource requirements for supporting
such a strategy. Of utmost importance in this regard ares (a) continued
commitment to adjustment and to further improvements In economic policies
in key areas and the institutional framework; and (b) increased resources,
both domestic and external, in order to finance investment and other expen-
ditures in support of the strategy without undermining macroeconomic
stability.
13.      Aside from the energy sector  policy improvements agreed under the
proposed credit, key policy improvements necessary to Implement the
Government's development strategy include the following3
(a) In agriculture, continued provision of price incentives, Input
delivery, credit support (with timely recoveries), and complemen-
tary investments in water control, research and extension services
to promote foodgrain production.
(b) In industrn and trade, measures to improve further the environment
for private sector initiatives are essential to promote industrial
growth and exports. These include: (i) continued flexibility in
exchange rate management, provision of adequate export financing
and incentives and improved access to imported inputs at competi-
tive terms; (it) further trade liberalization by reducing quanti-
tative restrictions and rationalizing tariffs; (iii) strengthening
financial institutions (while restoring credit discipline) to
encourage exports, promote private investment in the industrial
sector and ensure the efficiency and competitiveness of such
investments; and (iv)   reform of public manufacturing enterprises
to increase their commercial orientation by increasing tleir
autonomy, strengthening their management and, in selected areae,
privatizing them.
(c) In public expenditures, Ci) in view of increased demands for
rehabilitation and for implementation of ongoing programs in the
face of limited domestic resources and absorption capacity, a
reordering of priorities in the public expenditure program is
essential.   Such  reordering  should  place  emphasis on priority
rehabilitation needs, operations and maintenance, development
projects,  increased  allocations  of   Taka  resources  for high
priority  projects  in  productive   sectors  and  human  resource
development, and financing incremental recurrent costs of social
sector programs; (Hi) at the same time, efforts should be made to
reduce implementation bottlenecks (e.g., procurement, technical
assistance) and streamline bureaucratic procedures to Improve the
utilization of foreign resources.



-6-
(d) Increased domestic resource mobilization to facilitate speedier
implementation of  the  public  expenditure  program.    This will
include (i) tax reforms to improve revenue elasticity (as well as
allocative efficiency and equity) of the tax system over the
medium term; (ii) increased cost recovery through appropriate
pricing of goods and services and effective revenue collections by
public  enterprises,  and   enforcement   of  their  debt  service
obligations to increase non-tax resources; and (Wii) improved
financial  discipline  through   effective   loan   recovery    in
agriculture and industry.
(e) Human resource development is a critical component of the develop-
ment strategy to increase productivity and improve the quality of
life by reducing infant mortality and adult morbidity using
-    nutrition, health  services,  education,  population  planning and
special projects for vulnerable groups, including women. While
there have been improvements in recent years in some of these
areas, a greater  commitment  in  terms  of incree4ed provision of
financial and administrative resources and designing effective
strategies to reach the poor is needed.
Financing Needs and Prospects
14.      Achieving the goals of  higher  growth and enhanced human resource
development will require  increased  foreign  aid  flows  (Table 1).  Total
disbursements of US$5.3 billion are likely to be required during 1Y89-91.
This compares with disbursements of US$4.5 billion in the most recent three
years (FY86-88), representing a real  increase  of about 122 for the period
as a whole.  Over  half  of  the  increased  flows could come from improved
implementation performance of the large existing undisbursed project aid
pipeline (currently over US$4.6 billion), with little real increase in
project aid commitment levels (currently about US$1.1 billion per year).
Food aid will also continue to be required at about its present level of
US$300 million per year to help bridge the gap between domestic production
and effective demand, and to provide for Food for Work and Vulnerable Group
Development programs. Finally, commitments of quick disbursing program aid
will need to rise by about 52 per year in real terms. Over US$1.8 billion
of disbursements of this form of aid will be required over the three-year
period.
15.      With improved effortLs to implement policy reforms and with careful
aid  coordination,  almost  two-thirds   of  Bangladesh's  need  for  quick
disbursing aid is expected to be available from bilateral and other multi-
lateral donors. IDA would need to finance the remaining one-third, a total
of about US$600-700 million during the three-year period. In addition to
the preposed Energy Sector Adjustment Credit, IDA's program tentatively
includes quick disbursing credits to support policy adjustments and insti-
tutional strengthening in the financial, industry, and agriculture sectors,
and a structural adjustment operation.
16.      This level of borrowing is  not expected to place excessive strain
on Bangladesh's debt  servicing  capacity.    While  the debt service ratio
(including obligations to the DMh) rose from 16S in FY84 to 281 in FY87 due
primarily to repayments of commercial food loans necessitated by frequent
floods and to repurchase obligations to the ThY, the ratio fell to 221 in
FY88. It is projected to fall further to below 202 in the 19909. IDA,, as
of the end of 1987, accounted for 302 of Bangladesh's total long-term debt
outstanding and disbursed and llS of its total long-term debt service.



-7-
PART II : BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLhDESH
17.      Cumulative  Bank   Group   codmitments  to   Bangladesh  totalled
US$4,108.5 million equivalent, net of cancellations as of September 30,
1988 (Annex II}.    This  figure  includes  reactivation  of eleven credits
(US$154.4 million) made to Pakistan before 1971, as vell as a consolidation
loan (US$54.9 million) and a consolidation credit (US$37.5 million)
approved in 1975 to cover liabilities arising from projects completed prior
to Independence. The Bank Group has approved 116 credits and one loan
since Bangladesh became a member  in  1972.  Of the total IDA'coamitments,
approximately  222  have  been   for   agriculture,  irrigation  and  rural
development, 142 for power and energy, 9S for industry, 72 for education
and technical assistance, 91 for transportation and telecommunications, 32
for population and health, 32 for urban Infrastructure, and 332 for imports
program support. Since Bangladesh became a member of IPC in 1976, five
investments have been approved.
18.      The Bank chairs  the  annual  Bangladesh  Aid  Group meeting which
provides a forum for donor consultation, and the Bank's Resident Represen-
tative chairs regularly scheduled donor meetings in Dhaka to exchange views
on policy issues, project implementation and aid coordination. In November
1986, the Bank chaired a special meeting of donors and Government represen-
tatives, hosted by the Federal Republic of Germany, to review programs to
assist the rural poor in Bangladesh; a special meeting on agriculture is
planned for early April 1989 in Dhaka.
19.      IDA's  lending  program  for   FY89-93   is  expected  to  average
US$600-700 million a year. In FY89 total commitments are planned at about
US$600 million for  six  operations;  in  FY90  the  program is expected to
commit about US$630 million for nine operations. Three of the operations
planned during these two years would be for fast disbursing sector and
structural  adjustment   credits.       Assessment   of  the  rehabilitation
requirements resulting from the 1987  and  1988 floods is nearly completed;
establishment of prioritiet for the rehabilitation work and development
program is an important next step.    IDA is working with the Government on
these efforts and has taken steps to amend credit agreements for ongoing
projects which were approved last year to assist in rehabilitation
following the 1987 floods, so that the proceeds may be used for emergency
works needed as a result of this year's floods as well. IDA is also
preparing a proposed Third Flood Rehabilitation credit for FY89.
20.      IDA's country  assistance  strategy  is  designed  to  support the
Government's development priorities and objectives, as well as its overall
strategy for achieving them. Given the predominant position of agriculture
in the economy and its direct impact on the incomes and consumption levels
of the poor. IDA's lending has emphasized agriculture, with particular
importance attached to increasing food production by augmenting the supply
of essential inputs such as irrigation equipment, fertilizer and improved
seeds, the development of extension services, research programs and rural
cooperatives, the provision of agricultural credit and the promotion of
input and output pricing policies that provide better production incentives
to farmers. IDA has also supported the Government's efforts to encourage
greater private sector participation in the supply and distribution of
agricultural inputs. Finally. IDA's lending program has promoted agricul-
tural diversification through increased production of fish and forestry
products.



-8-
21.      IDA's assistance to Bangladesh's  industrial sector is intended to
enhance the sector's capacity to contribute to a higher, sustained level of
economic growth, provide productive employment for a rapidly growing work
force and improve the country's external trade and payments position on a
sustained basis. IDA has assisted Bangladesh's industrial sector through
program credits as well as specific projects to increase fertilizer produc-
tion, rehabilitate the jute and textile industries, strengthen development
finance  institutions  and  promote   small-scale  industries.    The  FY87
Industrial Sector Credit (Cr.1816-BD) constituted the first of a stries of
policy-based credits intended to support industrial and trade policy
reforms,  export  promotion  efforts,   enhancement  of  public  enterprise
efficiency and financial  sector  reforms.    The  credit provided a policy
framework for future industrial credits and specific industrial investment
projects.
22.      IDA's lending in the energy sector has been designed to expand the
use of natural gas as a substitute for imported oil, rationalize the supply
of petroleum products, promote conservation and more efficient energy use
and encourage further  gas  and  oil  exploration.    IDA is also financing
projects to expand the country's power generation and transmission capa-
bilities  and  rural  electrification  system.    Recognizing  the critical
shortage of traditional fuels, IDA is financing investments in forestry to
increase the supply of fuelvood.
23.      In the transport sector, IDA has supported projects to improve the
inland water transport system, expand the country's sea port facilities and
upgrade key sections of the road network, as well as a multi-modal project
to enhance fertilizer handling and distribution operations. Bangladesh's
road network is extensive, but the roads are in poor condition and inade-
quately  maintained.    IDA's  future  transport  lending will concentrate
primarily on supporting the Government's programs to rehabilitate deter-
iorated roads by improving maintenance standards, techniques and expendi-
ture levels,  and  strengthen  overall  investment  planning.    Subject to
verification of its economic feasibility and affordability (the feasibility
study is expected to be completed this fiscal year), IDA may also support
construction of the first bridge over the Jamuna (Brabmaputra) River,
providing a permanent transport and power link between the northwest and
eastern regions.
24.      Facing an estimated adult literacy rate of only 29%, IDA's lending
strategy in education focuses on primary education and skills development.
Lending for primary education supports the national goals of achieving
universel primary education, reducing illiteracy, expanding access to
education and upgrading  quality.    Projects  for vocational and technical
education promote the training of craftsmen, technicians and engineers.
25.      To help alleviate the severe economic and social pressures created
by the extremely high population density and the continuing population
increase, IDA and other donors are assisting the Government in implementing
accelerated family planning and maternal and child health care programs.
With Bangladesh's urban population expected to increase from about 16-18
million in 1985 to between 35-40 million by the year 2000, IDA is already
financing water and sanitation improvements in Dhaka and Chittagong, as
well as projects intended to help the Government address the problem of
providing low-cost shelter and infrastructure services to the urban poor.



-9-
26.      Because of the need  for  sustained transfer of substantial finan-
cial resources, a significant portion of IDA's lending to Bangladesh has
been in the form of fast disbursing annual program credits. Program
credits have also provided a useful vehicle for addressing a wide range of
sectoral and macroeconomic policy issues. Bangladesh will continue to need
substantial fast disbursing foreign exchange resources, on highly conces-
sional terms, because of the large structural imbalances between the
cca_ ry's export earnings and import requirements, and its domestic savings
rate and investment needs. To assist Bangladesh in addressing these struc-
tural problems, IDA plans a series of fast disbursing sector adjustment
credits in energy, finance, industry, agriculture, and public enterprises.
IDA also intends to provide support to strengthen fiscal management,
through a planned structural adjustment operation in FY91, which would
combine improvements in public expenditure management, resource mobili-
zation and possibly operational aspects of public enterprises.
27.      Project implementation  is hampered not  only  by  a shortage of
domestic financial resources, but also by poorly trained staff of Imple-
menting agencies, limited managerial capacity and cumbersome bureaucratic
procedures. IDA, in consultation with other donors, is engaged in a
continuing dialogue with the Government on ways to improve project imole-
mentation and disbursements.    During  the  past  year, for example,  -'nP-
financed studies on project aid and commodity aid utilization in Bangla sh
were completed; these were  discussed  in specially convened donor meetiags
in Dhaka, and it was agreed to form smaller working groups of interested
donors to meet with the Government and prepare specific action programs
based on the report's recommendations.    IDA  intends to work closely with
the Government to identify an appropriate package of measures to improve
project performance which might be supported under the planned structural
adjustment credit. In support of broader institutional reform, IDA is also
providing technical assistance for project preparation and implementation,
financing projects to train civil servants and other managerial and
technical personnel, and encouraging the Government to introduce admini-
strative reforms and improve the structure and management of the civil
service.
28.      In late FY88 IDA learned  that  the Government had not been imple-
menting the subsidiary loan agreements' onlending terms and conditions for
commercial entities (including energy sector entities) under ongoing IDA
credits, ADB loans  and  loans  from  various  bilateral  donors.   For IDA
credits, Government has required entities, with few exceptions, to make
interest payments and repayments of principal on the same terms as the
Government repayments to IDA, rather than in accordance with the subsidiary
'oan agreements. It is estimated that total accumulated arrears of energy
sector entit'es under IDA credits, as of June 30, 1988 was US$86.9 million
equivalent. With IDA's agreement, the Government has adopted the following
action plan to address this issue for IDA credits. Beginning with their
FY89 accounts, all entities were instructed to record in their financial
statements payments of interest and principal in accordance with the terms
and conditions of the subsidiary loan agreements, and would be In
compliance with the subsidiary  loan  agreements.   Further, with regard to
the accumulated arrears of energy sector entities under the various
subsidiary loan agreements, the Government has decided that all of the



-10-
arrears as of June 30, 1988 will be converted into equity, and it vill
fully implement  this  decision  by  June 30,  1989.    For the outstanding
arrears  under  the  subsidiary  loan  agreements  for non  energy  sector
entities, the Government has decided to  either convert them into equity or
to reschedule repayments depending upon the financial circumstances of each
entity. The Government will finalize its decision for each entity by June
30, 1989 and implement it immediately thereafter. Future compliance with
the terms and conditions of the subsidiary loan agreements vill be
monitored closely by supervision missions.
PART III : ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources
29.      Bangladesh's commercially exploitable  energy resources consist of
substantial reserves of relatively low cost natural gas, limited hydro-
power potential and a large base of traditional fuels, in the form of crop
residues, animal dung and wood. Natural gas is the main source of conmmer-
cial energy, accounting for about 60? of supply in FY87 compared to 36Z in
FY80. Gas output increased steadily over the last decade, growing from 29
billion cubic feet (bcf) in FY76 to about 120 bcf in FY87, an annual growth
rate of 13.8?.   As  a  result  of  the  substitution  of gas for petroleum
products, Bangladesh has been able to reduce petroleum imports; in FY87
they claimed about 132 of the country's foreign exchange earnings, compared
to 54? during FY82-86. Estimated recoverable reserves of gas, all located
in the east zone, are about 10 trillion cubic feet (tcf), sufficient to
meet expected demand for 20 years, and prospects are good for increasing
the reserves in the near term with a more intensified field appraisal
program and in the longer term with the implementation of a comprehensive
exploration  program,  both  offshore  and  onshore.    The  Government has
accorded high priority to the development of these reserves, and under the
proposed credit (para. 59) it would review the gas exploration and develop-
ment program annually with IDA.
30.      Oil has been discovered recently in the Sylhet gas field area, but
the size of the reserves has not been determined and it is too early to
assess the significance of the discovery. Hence, sizable imports of petro-
leum products, in addition to imports of crude processed domestically, are
expected to continue.   In  its  efforts  to  reduce dependence on imported
energy and to supplement the domestic gas supply, the Government has
completed, with IDA's assistance under the Petroleum Exploration Promotion
Project (Cr.1402-BD), a program of seismic surveys and geological studies
to be used in the preparation of promotional packages aimed at attracting
international oil companies to undertake petroleum exploration (para. 54).
31.      Bangladesh's total hydropower  potential  is  estimated  at about
1,500 Gigawatt hours (GMh)Iyear, of which 1,050 GVhlyear has been developed
with the installation of 330 KW capacity on the Karnafuli river at Kaptai
(near Chittagong). The remaining potential is located at two other sites
whose development would flood prime agricultural land and require the relo-
cation of about 30,000  people.    In  view  of  the high cost involved and
potential social impact, its development is not economic at this time.



-11-
32.      Several thick  seams  of  coal  have  been  discovered at mineable
depths in the  Barapukuria  area  in  the west  zone.   The Government has
obtained bilateral assistance to assess the technical and economic feasi-
bility of  mining  this  coal  (para.  60).    If  its  exploitation proves
economic, it could have a profound impact on the future development and use
of domestic and imported energy in Bangladesh, as well as possibly the
export of energy.
33.      Traditional fuels  play  a  crucial  role  in meeting Bangladesh's
overall energy requirements.   However,  biomass  supplies  on a per capita
basis are continually diminishing, and increases in forest-based fuelvood
or a major shift to commercial fuels are not viable options to meet the
supply gap due to high population density and low income levels. The
decline in the relative contribution of traditional fuels to the country's
energy supply increases the importance of action being taken by the
Government to improve biomass recovery and conversion efficiency, e.g., in
cooking stoves, charcoal kilns and other wood-burning equipment. Due to
insufficient data on household energy demand and the absence of an adequate
governmental institutional framework. these issues have not been addressed
comprehensively. To focus more attention on this subject, Government has
recently assigned responsibility for overall coordination of traditional
energy assessments to the Planning Commission's Energy and Industry
Division. Further, under the proposed credit Government will undertake an
interfuel substitution study to: (i) assess the micro and macroeconomic
impacts of substitution of commercial for traditional fuels; and (ii) form-
ulate a least cost strategy for meeting commercial energy needs.
Energy Consumption and Demand
34.      Bangladesh's annual per capita  energy consumption is estimated at
about 100 kilograms (kg) of oil equivalent, among the lowest in the world.
Traditional fuels, such as crop residues, animal dung and wood, supply
about 601 of total energy  requirements.   Per capita annual consumption of
commercial energy is estimated to be only 42 kg of oil equivalent. In
FY86, commercial energy consumption was about 4.2 million tons of oil
equivalent, of which natural gas accounted for 58Z, petroleum 391, hydro-
power 1Z, ard coal 21. The bulk of gas consumption is in power generation
(42Z) and fertilizer production (341); however, other industrial, commer-
cial and domestic  uses  are  expanding  steadily.    There is considerable
inefficiency in the use of commercial energy and hence substantial scope
for improving energy efficiency, particularly in industry and petroleum
refining.   There  are  also  substantial  losses  in  the transmission and
distribution of electric power and, until FY88, frequent and costly power
outages.
35.      Based on projected GDP  growth  rates, planned industrial develop-
ment, and extension of supplies to new consumers, the demand for commercial
energy is projected to grow relatively quickly in the 19908. Total elec-
tricity sales, which increased at about 141 a year during FY8O-87, are
estimated to grow  at  131  a  year  during  FY90-2000.   However, sales of
natural gas, which increased by about 162 a year during FY81-88, are
projected to increase by only about 102 a year during FY89-2000. This
slowing of the growth rate occurs because the existing recoverable gas



-12-
reserves of 10 tcf will be fully committed by about the year 2000. The
large investment requirements to meet the projected growth rates emphasize
the importance of the Government adopting appropriate energy pricing
policies to minimize investment requirements and to mobilize resources for
the investment program.   Further,  it  is  important for the Government to
formulate and adopt appropriate long term investment plans to ensure that
the energy sector's investment plan is least cost and reflects the balanced
development of the various subsectors.
Sector Institutions
36.      The principal institutions  responsible  for  energy sector policy
ares (i) the Planning Commission, which is responsible for approving all
investment schemes costing more than Tk 5.0 million (US$0.16 million), and
(ii) the Xinistry of Energy and Mineral Resources, which is responsible for
overseeing the operations of the four publicly-owned energy sector entities
which produce, transport and deliver most of the commercial energy in
Bangladesh. The energy sector entities ares
(a) Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB)--responsible for elec-
tricity generation, transmission and distribution (except in those
areas which are under the control of the Rural Electrification
Board);
(b) Rural Electrification Board (REB)--responsible for construction of
rural electrification schemes and organizing prospective consumers
into semi-autonomous cooperatives called Palli Bidyut Samities
(PBSs). The PBSs are responsible for the purchase of electricity
from BPDB and its distribution to their consumers;
(c) Bangladesh Oil, Gas and Minerals Corporation (BOGMC)--responsible
for the exploration, production and delivery of natural gas, and
the exploration and development of oil and solid minerals,
including  coal.    The  functions  relating  to natural  gas are
performed by five regional operating companies under BOGMC's
control. Gas is produced by Bangladesh Gas Fields Company Limited
(BGFCL), Bakhrabad Gas System Limited (BGSL), and Sylhet Gas
Fields Limited (SGFL), and is transmitted and distributed by BGSL,
Titas Gas Transmission and Distribution Company Limited (TGTDC)
and Jalalabad Gas Transmission and Distribution Company (JGTDC)l
and
(d) Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC)--responsible for purchasing
crude oil and the refining and marketing of petroleum products.
The refining operation is carried out by Eastern Refinery Limited
(ERL), a subsidiary of BPC and the only refinery in Bangladesh.
Liquified petroleum gas (LPG) is bottled and sold to private
marketing companies by LPG Limited, another subsidiary of BPC.
Marketing of petroleum products and LPG is carried out by three
other BPC subsidiaries, Jamuna Oil Company, Maghna Oil Company and
Burmah Eastern.



-13-
Private Sector Participation in the Energy Sector
37.      Although the  energy  sector,  except  for  traditional energy, is
dominated by public sector entities, the private sector's role and impor-
tance are  steadily  increasing.    Traditionally,  the  retailing  of most
petroleum products has been undertaken by the private sector, which also
plays a major role in their transportation. However, the functions of LPG
transportation, storage and retailing have been undertaken by the public
sector.  The Government  is  now  actively p -ing private sector partici-
pation in these activities through a pilut program under the Refinery
Modification and LPG Recovery and Distribution Project (Cr.1749-BD). It is
also  seeking  to   increase   private   sector  involvement  in  petroleum
exploration through promotional packages aimed at attracting international
oil companies to undertake exploration.    The packages are scheduled to be
presented to the oil industry by June 30, 1989.
Government's Energy Sector Strate8y
38.      In recognition of gas's  pivotal  role, the Government has focused
its energy strategy on accelerating its development as a substitute for
imported crude and  petroleum  products.    The  strategy  is aimed at both
reducing Bangladesh's dependence on oil imports and substituting commercial
for traditional energy, partly through rural electrification and through
using kerosene and LPG instead of fuelwood for cooking.
39.      In the SFYP shortages  of both  foreign  and local resources, the
latter of which was exacerbated by the failure of energy sector enter-
prises, especially BPDB, to achieve self-financing targets, impeded tLe
achievement of most of the SFYP targets for the energy sector. The largest
shortfall was in the power  subsector;  between  FY81 and FY85, only 55  of
the planned generating capacity was commissioned, together with 701 of
planned distribution lines. In the petroleum subsector the shortfalls In
meeting construction targets were small, with over 901 of planned gas
production wells and transmission pipelines being developed. However,
there was a 40? shortfall in meeting the planned gas supply target, princi-
pally because of lower than projected demand for gas by power and Indus-
trial consumers as a result of delayed commissioning of gas using power and
fertilizer plants. Severe electricity shortages ushered in the TFm in
FY86. The measures taken to address these shortages, including the instal-
lation of additional liquid-fuelled gas turbine capacity and increased
generation by oil-fired capacity in the west zone, led to a short-ternm
increase in dependence on imported petroleum products and caused the
investment program to deviate from least cost.
40.      Recognizing the importance  of  improving  energy supplies to meet
projected energy demand, especially from industry and agriculture, the
Government accorded high priority to the energy sector's development In the
TFYP. Its principal objectives are to: (a) accelerate the development of
domestic natural gas resources to reduce the country's dependence on
imported oil; (b) adjust energy prices to promote the efficient nd
economic use of energy, taking into account social objectives; tc) meet the
demand for energy at least cost to the economy; (d) improve power supply
reliability and quality, and reduce system losses; te) Improve energy



-14-
sector entities' financial performance and mobilize the resources required
to meet the country's development goals; and (f) encourage private sector
participation in the energy sector's development, particularly in oil and
gas exploration. In keeping vith these objectives, TFYP allocated Taka
61,750 million (US$1,910 million) at 1984185 prices for the energy sector's
development, about 16? of the total TFYP allocation, compared to about 122
under the SFYP; only agriculture has a larger sector allocation.
41.      The Government has  so  far  been  unable  to translate the energy
strategy articulated in its Five Year Plans into a consistent, unambiguous
set of implementation policies.    As  a  result, several anomalies remain.
For example, electricity tariffs have remained below the economic costs of
supply, and gas prices are substantially below the prices of substitute
fuels. These low prices deny potential resources to both the Government's
Budget and sector entities, and lead to the wasteful use of resources.
Planning weaknesses and an inadequate supply of local funds have contri-
buted to the poor performance in meeting sectoral investment targets. In
the SFYP, the need to reduce investment plans due to fund shortages was
achieved by slowing the implementation of most energy projects rather than
concentrating available resources on a smaller number of high priority
projects.   The  rectification  of  this  and  other  planning deficiencies
requires the formulation of rolling priority investment programs for the
energy sector  based  on  projected  available  resources.   However, while
improved planning and reformed energy prices would assist in meeting plan
targets, they need to be complemented by improved capability to implement
investment and resource mobilization decisions. Implementation capability
has been substantially hampered by institutional weaknesses at both the
governmental and energy sector entity levels. Particularly important weak-
nesses which are wasting resources and constraining energy sector perfor-
mance concern BPDB, gas subsector entities, and public sector-wide impedi-
ments to the approval of projects and award of contracts.
IDA's Energy Sector Assistance Strategy
42.      IDA's energy sector dialogue  with  the  Government has focused on
the need for the Government to: (a) strengthen investment planning to meet
forecast energy demand at least cost, (b) improve sectoral institutions'
performance and provide training, (c) improve energy sector entities'
financial performance, (d) optimize the use of available energy resources
through appropriate energy pricing and conservation measures, (e) appraise
discovered gas fields and optimize their development, and (f) enhance the
private sectors' role and attract private capital to intensify oil explora-
tion. To support the implementation of the Government's energy strategy,
IDA has provided 12 project-specific credits amounting to US$608 million
equivalent, representing about 19? of IDA resources commltted to Bangladesh
since 1979.    Lending  in  the  power  and  petroleum  subsectors has been
designed to expand the use of natural gas as a substitute for imported oil,
rationalize the country's supply of petroleum products, promote conser-
vation and more efficient energy use, and encourage further gas and oil
exploration. IDA is financing projects to expand the country's power
generation, transmission and distribution capabilities, and rural electri-
fication systems, as well as investments in forestry to increase the supply
of fuelwood.



-15-
43.      Although there has  been  some  progress  on the various subsector
issues, and project implementation has been fairly effective once initial
delays caused by the project approval process were overcome, much remains
to be done on a sectoral basis. While individual projects supported by IDA
were selected on a least cost basis, the various agencies' overall inv,est-
ment programs have not been optimal or integrated into a sectoral invest-
ment program that could be implemented with available resources. Progress
in relating energy prices to the economic costs of supply has been slow and
uneven. Although petroleum product prices substantially exceed economic
costs, until FY89 the average gas price was below the economic cost of
supply, which continues to be the case for electricity. IDA has addressed
both broad and narrow institutional issues through its past project
lending, ranging from the appropriate organization of the gas subsector to
improved resource mobilization by sector entities through the reduction of
accounts receivable. Nevertheless, severe institutional weaknesses remain,
and further improvement in the performance of sector entities is critical
for the sector's efficient development and operation.
44.      The  proposed  credit  would  initiate  an  energy  sector lending
approach by addressing issues in three key areas: resource development and
investment, energy pricing and demand management, and institutional perfor-
mance and development. The proposed credit would assist the Government in
undertaking a program of sector-wide policy reforms urgently needed to
improve the sector's performance and enhance its net contribution to the
Budget. In doing so, it would establish a policy framework for future
project lending in the sector, and facilitate such lending by restricting
proposed agreements to those which are project specific. However, since
the reforms supported under this credit are considered essential, future
project lending for the sector would be contingent on agreement and imple-
mentation of this credit's key components. A second proposed Energy Sector
Adjustment Credit in FY93 would enable IDA to continue this more broadly
based policy dialogue.
45.      More than 20 agencies  have  been involved in assisting investment
in Bangladesh's energy sector, including Asian Development Bank (ADB),
Overseas  Development  Administration,   United   Kingdom  (ODA),  Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA), Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau,
Federal Republic of Germany (KfW), Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund,
Japan (OECF), United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). ADB has been particularly
active in the energy sector through its involvement with the Bangladesh
Energy Planning Study, which was completed in mid-1987, and a number of
lending operations covering  all major  energy  subsectors.   In the past,
however, donor activities were insufficiently coordinated. During prepara-
tion of the proposed credit, the Government requested IDA to take the lead
in coordinating donor participation in the sector. Subsequently, two coor-
dination meetings were held in Dhaka, one during the preappraisal and the
second during the appraisal of the proposed credit. With Government's
concurrence, IDA plans to hold such meetings on a regular basis in the
future.    ADB  and  ODA have  also  been  directly  associated with  the
preparation of the proposed credit, and OEC0 participated in the appraisal
mission in an observer capacity.



-16-
PART TV s ADJUSTMENT STRATEGYa DEVELOMfENT OF THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Energy Sector and the Macroeconomy
46.      The  proposed  credit would   play   an  important  role  in  the
Government's  overall macroeconomic  adjustment  plan.    As  discussed in
Part I, the Government needs to mobilize additional domestic resources and
to strengthen the balance of payments. The credit would assist in resource
mobilization through the reform of energy prices and actions to improve
cost recovery. It would assist in strengthening the balance of payments by
minimizing investment requirements through the formulation and implemen-
tation of both short-term and long-term least cost investment programs;
ensuring that energy prices do not encourage uneconomic consumption and
energy imports; and by further enhancing substitution of indigenous natural
gas for petroleum imports. Further, although the TFYP is nearly two years
from completion, it is unlikely that plan targets will be met because of
slippages in key projects caused by local resource shortages and persistent
institutional weaknesses. If shortfalls in achieving these targets are to
be minimized, then a comprehensive strategy for addressing the main sector
issues must be formulated  and  implemented.   This strategy should address
three main areas: resource development and investment, energy pricing and
demand management, and institutional performance and development.
B. Energy Resource Development and Investment
47.      The development  of primary  and  secondary  energy resources has
progressed in a piecemeal fashion, dictated primarily by the availability
of financial resources  and  aid-ia-kind.    Shortages  of local resources,
exacerbated by institutional inefficiencies and the maintenance of energy
prices at levels substantially below those required to finance an adequate
percentage of sector entities' investment programs, have resulted in slip-
pages in project implementation, cost overruns and changes in the content
and scope of investment programs. In recognition of these shortcoming., in
FY83 the Government began to distinguish core and non-core projects and
gave priority to core  projects  (defined  as projects bein; implemented or
for which firm commitments had been secured from donors, with a quota on
the number of such projects in each sector) in the release of funds under
the Annual Development Programme  (ADP).    However, the definition of core
projects, which emphasizes projects which are underway, has meant that they
are not necessarily projects comprising least cost programs or the priority
projects whose implementation is critical for achieving plan targets.
Further, in FY87 the Government relaxed its ADP fund release procedures to
give priority to approved projects irrespective of whether they are core or
non-core.
48.      The continued reduction  of  the  country's dependence on imported
energy through the economic use of gas and more efficient use of existing
facilities and infrastructure requires the formulation of a long-term least
cost investment plan for each subsector and their integration into a long-
term plan for the energy sector.    This plan would allow for the identifi-
cation and timely preparation of high priority projects and indicate the
resources needed for their implementation.    However,  in view oi the time



-17-
required to complete and approve subsector plans, a two-pronged approach
was developed under the proposed  credit.   The first covered the identifi-
cation of a rolling three year priority investment program (VIP) for
energy, initially for the period FY88-90, representing the front-end of the
long-term plan. The second covered the preparation and ratification of the
long-term plans, which was expected to take about two years. The long term
plans would serve as the umbrella for the identification and preparation of
projects for the Fourth Five Year Plan.
Priority Investment Program
49.      Long-term development plans for the energy subsectors, which would
provide the basis for the energy sector's integrated development, need to
be complemented by three year rolling priority investment programs (PIP).
The PIP's prime purpose would be to assist the Government in minimizing the
shortfalls in achieving energy sector targets set in its five year plans,
beginning with the TFYP. Each PIP would be based on integrated targets for
the energy sector, the availability of financial resources and the imple-
mentation capabilities of  the  agencies  involved.    All  ongoing and new
projects would be ranked in terms of their expected rates of return and
selected in a descending order to ensure that, when aggregated within and
across subsectors, they met the revised demand forecasts at least cost.
The projects would then be matched with projected 'tvAncial resources in an
iterative fashion until available funds were exhauqted.
50.      In FY88 the Government prepared an  agreed PIP for FY88-90 and the
sources for its financing. It comprised the high priority projects crucial
for achieving revised targets for the remainder of the TFYP and was used in
the Government's TPYP mid-term review in early 1988. Government has also
agreed that PIPs would be prepared, and agreed with IDA, for nY89-91,
FY9O-92 and FY91-93 and that prior to the beginning of each fiscal year
implementation of the PIP for the current year would be reviewed with IDA
to ascertain the extent of compliance in terms of deviation of actual and
planned expenditures in foreign exchange and local currency, both overall
and for each project, and actual and agreed allocations under the ADP.
Implementation of the PIP for FY88-90 was reviewed with IDA in July 1988.
The review confirmed that the PIP had been implemented satisfactorily, with
overall actual expenditure on energy sector projects being 952 of the
expenditure agreed under the PIP, and expenditure in the petroleum and
power  subsectors  being  982   and   94Z,   respectively,  of  the  agreed
expenditures.
51.      A PIP for FY89-91 has  been  agreed  (Annex VI) and the release of
the second tranche would be subject to its satisfactory implementation and
agreement on the PIP  for  FY90-92.    Total  planned expenditure under the
FY89-91 PIP is US$1,223 million equivalent, comprising US$823 million
foreign costs and US$400 million local costs. The subsectoral allocation
is about 80?  for  power  and  20S  for petroleum.   The power subsector's
investment balance (31? for generation projects, 262 for transmission, 36S
for distribution, and 72 miscellaneous) reflects, compared to GOBBPDBI's
earlier plans, a relative decrease in resources for generation projects and
an increase  for  transmission  and  distribution  projects.   Given BPDB'u
existing excess generating capacity and need to renovate and extend distri-
bution systems,  this  is  an  appropriate  investment  balance.    The PIP
financing plan is about US$400 million equivalent self-financing by sector
entities and from GOB, and about US$823 million from donors (Annex VI).



-18-
Long-Term Least Cost Development Plans
52.      Power.  The  power  subsector  accounts  for nearly  702 of total
energy investment and about 171 of total public investment. Consequently,
the resolution of outstanding issues adversely affecting its efficient
development would contribute significantly to the achievement of long-term
energy objectives.   Thus  the  transmission  system's  development has not
matched properly the growth of generating capacity, and as a result the
system will be unable to transport to the demand centres all of the addi-
tional energy associated with generating capacity to be commissioned in
FY87-90. In FY87, with financing from the UNDP and USAID, IDA collaborated
with Argonne National Laboratories (U.S.) in the preparation of an interim
least cost power generation expansion plan which was used in the formu-
lation of marginal cost based tariffs under the power tariff study
(para. 71) to ensure consistency between least cost investment plans and
economic pricing. However, the plan needed to be updated and integrated
with a least cost development plan for transmission to ensure the efficient
and economic  generation  and  transport  of  power.    In  early 1987 BPDB
appointed consultants, under financing from UNDP and vith ADS as the
executing agency, to prepare  such  a  plan  in  the context of preparing a
feasibility study for a proposed central thermal power project. The
Government had agreed to review with IDA by April 30, 1989 the long-term
least  cost  development plan  for   generation  and  transmission.    The
consultants submitted their draft final report in October 1988. The report
was reviewed by IDA and ADB in January 1989, and was found to be
satisfactory.
53.      Technical losses in the  distribution  systems are high, depriving
BPDB of badly needed  resources.    Although  individual projects have been
developed on the basis of least cost options formulated for specific towns
and areas, under the auspices of IDA, ADB, ODA and other donors, distri-
bution has suffered from the absence of a comprehensive national plan.
BPDB, with the assistance of consultants, financed by UNDP and executed by
the United Nations Department for Technical Cooperation and Development
(UNDTCD)  under   the   Power   Transmission   and   Distribution  Project
(Cr.1648-BD),  is  preparing  a plan   for  the  optimal  development  and
renovation  of  the  distribution  network.    The  plan  is  scheduled for
completion in July 1989. It will be reviewed by IDA, and funding for the
renovation program required to reduce system-wide technical losses is
included  in  the  proposed  PY90  Power Distribution  and  Rehabilitation
Project.    The  generation,  transmission  and  distribution  plans would
ultimately have to be integrated to provide the backbone for the power
subsector's development and to serve as a basis for the coordinated
participation of donors and multilateral agencies in the subsector. The
integration and implementation of the long-term plans for generation,
transmission and distribution would be the subject of agreements to be
sought under subsequent IDA supported power projects.
54.      Petroleum Products.  The Government  has focused its energy policy
on reducing oil imports and promoting a high rate of penetration of gas
throughout the economy. The substitution of liquid fuels by gas is limited
by technical factors to about 602 of the sector's needs, and thus sizeable
imports of petroleum products and oil to be processed at the refinery are
expected to continue. Accordingly, the Government is attempting to inten-



-19-
sify the search for oil. The priority need has been to stimulate Inter-
national oil companies' interest in exploration through an active promotion
program.    The   Petroleum   Exploration  Promotion  Project  (Cr.1402-BD)
addressed this issue, and promotional presentations to the oil industry are
scheduled to occur by June  30,  1989.    However, actions taken under that
credit have meant that some of its policy objectives are already being
achieved, even before the general promotion occurs. In addition to Shell
which is already exploring for oil in Bangladesh, two international oil
companies have recentlV signed exploration agreements with the Government.
Therefore  no  further  action  is   required  under  the  proposed  credit
concerning the development of an oil exploration program.
55.      One of the issues  identified  by  the  1982 Joint UNDP/lorld Bank
report 'Bangladesh: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector' was the
inefficient operation of ERL.   The  refinery's level of energy consumption
was excessive, and its product mix was not consistent with the mix of
products demanded. IDA provided financing, under the Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation Project (Cr.1357-BD), to rehabilitate the refinery
and improve  its  energy  efficiency.    The  credit  also included techno-
economic studies for further refinery improvements, which are being
supported under the Refinery Modification and LPG Recovery and Distribution
Project (Cr.1749-BD). The project includes the installation of secondary
conversion facilities at the refinery to improve yields of middle distil-
lates and reduce yields of fuel oil, and the establishment of a revised
mode of remuneration for ERL based on a toll processing fee to replace the
cost-plus guaranteed rate of return system (para. 63). These measures will
improve ERL's cost efficiency and enhance its flexibility to better match
refinery output with demand  patterns.    Since the implementation of these
measures has been satisfactory, no action is required concerning the
refinery at this time.
56.      The petroleum products supply  situation in Bangladesh is changing
with continued growth in gas substitution, increased availability of middle
distillates as a result of the refinery modification, and a possible
greater contribution and geographic penetration of LPG, for which the pilot
phase is being supported under the Refinery Modification and LPG Recovery
and Distribution Project (Cr.1749-BD).  Given  these supply changes, it is
important to ensure that the infrastructure for the transport, storage and
distribution of petroleum products is both least cost and matches the
emerging supply situation. A short diagnostic study, carried out by IDA,
showed that existing facilities and institutional arrangements are adequate
to meet the projected demand in the medium-term (three to five years) and
that there does not appear to be any significant uneconomic duplication of
facilities. Consequently, no action is required at this time concerning
the infrastructure for petroleum product storage and distribution.
57.      Gas.  Natural gas  is  Bangladesh's major  indigenous source of
primary energy, and the gas subsector, which accounts for nearly 30Z of
total investment in the energy sector is, in essence, the backbone of the
sector. The Government has achieved considerable success in promoting the
exploration and development of gas reserves and in developing the infra-
structure  needed  for  the  delivery  of  gas  to  final  consumers.   The
Government's success, however, in promoting a higher rate of penetration by



-20-
gas throughout the economy has been constrained by delays in project imple-
mentation in the major gas-consuming sectors, especially in the power
subsector. For example, although over 902 of planned gas production wells
and transmission pipelines were developed in the SFYP period, outRut of gas
fell about 402 short of planned targets.
58.      The power and gas subsectors'  development should be integrated to
ensure that the Five-Year  Development  Plans  achieve their objectives and
Bangladesh  continues  to  reduce  its  dependence  on  imported  petroleum
products.  The long-term strategy  for  the  gas subsector should take into
account the current  situation,  where  the  continued high productivity of
individual wells in the producing fields, coupled with the relatively slow
growth in gas demand, indicate that output from existing production wells
and the successful appraisal wells of the Second Gas Development Project
(Cr.1586-BD) will supply the estimated gas demand up to 1993. Conse-
quently, there is no need to drill safe development wells within the proven
areas of known fields, and a long-term appraisal program should be planned
so that incremental demand beyond 1993 can be supplied from successful
appraisal wells. This strategy can be adopted because of the high quality
of the seismic surveys carried out under the Petroleum Exploration
Promotion Project (Cr.1402-BD) which has reduced the risk involved in
drilling appraisal wells to increase known reserves and, at the same time,
provide the incremental production required to meet the growth in demand
with an acceptable safety margin.
59.      Against this background, a  long-term  strategic  plan for the gas
subsector should be developed which would address two principal areas, as
follows:
(a) in the area of appraisal and development, an appraisal drilling
program should be formulated based on the field structures deter-
mined from the  detailed  seismic  results.   Lower risk appraisal
wells would be drilled to firm up data on field reserves while, at
the same time, ensuring that production from these wells was
sufficient to meet projected demand with a reasonable safety
margin. In the longer term, appraisal wells should be drilled to
ascertain the overall magnitude of gas reserves. The results of
such an appraisal drilling program could alter the long-term
subsector development plans by proving up sufficient reserves to
make export andlor gas liquification projects feasible; and
(b) in the area of transmission and distribution, the gas infra-
structure should be integrated into a.n efficiently managed system.
A National Gas Grid Study, to 3&,ntify investments and institu-
tional requirements  for  an  integrated  gas  grid,  was recently
completed with financing under the Energy Efficiency and Refinery
Rehabilitation Project (Cr.1357-BD).    The  results  of the study
would be an input to IDA's proposed Third Gas Development Project
(FY91).



-21-
Government has agreed a set of priority activities to achieve the above
objectives, namely continual appraisal and development of the eastern gas
fields, limited exploration with increased participation of international
oil companies, and development of an integrated transmission system for
inclusion in a  long-term  investment  plan.    Further, the Government has
agreed to review with IDA, by April 30 of each year beginning April 1989,
the detailed exploration and development program for the next fiscal year,
and the tentative program for the following four years. IDA reviewed the
FY90-94 ;rogram in February 1989 and found it to be satisfactory.
60.      Coal. According to recent estimates, proven gas reserves would be
fully committed by about the  year  2000.    Although the prospects for the
discovery of new gas reserves are good, it is important that Bangladesh
diversifies its energy resource base, particularly of indigenous resources.
Two possible resources are  peat  and  coal.   Although peat resources have
been identified in Bangladesh, and several studies completed, it appears
unlikely that these resources would constitute a fuel source in the fore-
seeable future because of their location relative to the Ganges river flood
plain. However, recent work by the Geological Survey of Bangladesh in the
Barapukuria area of Dinajpur district has located several thick coal seams
up to 41 meters thick at depths of less than 200 meters. Although it is
premature to make any assumptions about the development of the Barapukuria
coal, preliminary indications are that it merits careful evaluation as a
potentially economic energy source in the west zone. Accordingly, the
Government has formulated a phased program to evaluate the Barapukuria coal
deposits and determine their technical, economic and financial viability.
Consultants financed by ODA (UK) were mobilized in December 1987 to carry
out the feasibility study.   The  Government  has agreed to review with IDA
the interim reports and the completed study within two months following its
completion. The interim reports were reviewed in mid-1988, and amendments
were made based on IDA's recommendations.
C. Energy Pricing and Demand Management
61.      The Government has included  economic efficiency, resource mobili-
zation and equity as key energy pricing policy objectives. These objec-
tives, however, have not been achieved mainly becsuse the level and
structure of energy prices, particularly of gas and electricity, have not
reflected their economic costs of  supply.    Hence, energy prices have not
promoted efficient gas and electricity use and fell short in providing the
resources needed by energy sector entities and the Budget. Prices were
also inequitable because of distortions in the relative prices of competing
fuels. For example, in late 1986 household fuel prices ranged from about
US$1.6/million British thermal units (btu) for natural gas, to about
US$3.1/million btu for fuelvood, and to about US$6.3/million btu for
kerosene. In addition there was a four and half-fold difference in the
border price of fuel oil and the price of natural gas used for electricity
generation. For Government to achieve its stated energy pricing policy
objectives, energy prices needed to be adjusted to reflect economic costs
of supply and generate funds for both the supply entities and the Budget.
Revised energy prices should also be more equitable by reducing cross
subsidization, such as that between industrial and domestic consumers of
electricity.



-22.
Energy Prices
62.      Petroleum Products.   Since  1980,  tue weighted average consumer
prices of  petroleum  products  have  declined  in  real  terms.   However,
following the fall in the oil prices in 1986 and the maintenance of
domestic prices by the Government at their level prior to the softening of
the world oil market, the weighted average domestic price in mid-1988 was
at about 1652 of  the  weighted  average  border  price.  Petroleum product
prices are expected to  provide  gross  revenues  to  the budget in PY89 of
about Tk 3,800 million, about 62 of projected overall revenue.
63.      Refinery Remuneration.  EEL is  a wholly owned subsidiary of BPC,
which is responsible for setting petroleum product retail prices in accord
with the Government's policies. Until FY86, BPC reimbursed ERL for all its
processing costs, plus a 152 return on its paid-up capital, net of taxes.
This mode of remuneration did not provide any incentive for the refinery to
be efficient. In FY87 under the Refinery Modification and LPG Recovery and
Distribution  Project  (Cr.1749-BD)  the   Government  established  a  toll
processing fee for compensating ERL based on product yield, refining
complexity, and a reasonable return on the investment, together with yield
norms and a system  of  bonuses  and  penalties.    Therefore, no action is
needed under the proposed credit on the method of remunerating EML.
64.      Although, in  principle,  BPC's  petroleum  product  prices to the
three marketing companies are determined on a cost-plus basis, in practice
BPC's prices have not always reflected changes in border prices. During
the early eighties some of BPC's prices were below border prices, resulting
in financial losses. In FY87, however, the Government took advantage of
the fall in oil prices to strengthen BPC's financial position and mobilize
substantial resources for  the  exchequer.    Given  the Government's acute
resource needs and present forecasts for world oil prices, no changes are
required in BPC's prices to the marketing companies at this time. However,
a pricing principle is required to ensure that domestic prices always
exceed border prices and thereby protect BPC's financial viability, while
also mobilizing substantial resources for the Budget. To achieve this the
Government has agreed a pricing formula which would ensure that the
weighted average domestic petroleum product prices, net of distribution,
marketing and other handling costs, always exceed border prices by at least
15Z. Further, it has also agreed that the weighted average retail price of
petroleum products would not be reduced below levels existing in mid-1987.
65.      The Government sets the  level  and  structure of retail petroleum
product prices on the basis of BPC's prices to the marketing companies plus
a mark-up to  cover  distribution,  marketing  and  other  costs, and an ad
valorem excise duty. The present retail price structure does not reflecT
border prices; for example, in October 1988, gasoline prices and diesel
prices exceeded cif prices by about 2002 and 1152, respectively. The
Government has recently reviewed with IDA the impact of present prices ar.d
other charges associated with petroleum products on petroleum product
consumption patterns, choice of end-use technologies and the Government's
resource mobilization efforts.    There  was  no  evidence that the present
price structure was causing significant distortions to resource allocation,
and thus the Government proposes to retain the present high prices. In
view of the Government's need to mobilize resources and the stimulus of
high energy prices to conservation, no action is required under the
proposed credit regarding retail petroleum product prices.



-23-
66.      Natural  Gas.     Under   the   Second   Gas  Development  Project
(Cr.1586-BD), the Government accepted the principle of pricing natural gas
for consumers at levels at least equal to the estimated economic costs of
supply, including a depletion premium, to promote the efficient and
economic use of gas and enable the entities producing and distributing gas
to be financially viable and mobilize resources for the Government. In
accordance with that agreement the average price of gas was increased by
202 on July 1, 1985 and 20Z on July 1, 1986. Following those increases,
although prices paid by large industries, commercial, tea estates and brick
consumers exceeded the estimated economic costs of supply, the prices paid
by power, fertilizer, residential and small industrial consumers remained
below those costs, and the average price of gas was only about 80S of the
economic cost of supply.
67.      In FY87 IDA reviewed the likely impact of substantial increases in
the gas price to power and fertilizer consumers. The review showed that
substantial increases in the gas price paid by the power subsector over the
next few years would have relatively little effect on the average power
tariff rate.    This  was  because  existing  oil-fired generating capacity
would, to a large extent, be replaced by new gas-fired generating capacity
which, in the absence of an increase in gas prices, would reduce BPDB's
annual fuel costs. The review indicated that if the price of gas to power
consumers was increased by 502 during FY88-89, then BPDB's total fuel costs
in FY89 would be only about 15S higher than in FY86, despite a projected
56? increase in generation.
68.      In contrast to  the  power  subsector,  the  review suggested that
although substantial increases in the gas price to fertilizer plants would
have serious adverse effects on their financial viability, farmgate
fertilizer prices would be  unaffected.   Under existing agreements between
the Government and IDA and other donors, fertilizer farmgats prices have
been uncoupled from ex-plant costs.    Farmgate  prices are based on three-
year average international prices plus local distribution costs. As for
ex-plant pricing of fertilizers, the Government has agreed that prices
would be set to give a 10 rate of return on revalued assets at efficient
production levels.   However,  the  agreements  on  ex-plant prices are not
being met, partly reflecting the fact that the Bank Group no longer
considers this financial pricing system to be appropriate for fertilizer
plants. Instead, a shift to economic pricing linked to a moving average of
world prices would be more appropriate.
69.      Under the proposed credit  the  Government  agreed to increase the
average gas price to achieve, as a first step, equality with the ecoromic
cost of supply for each consumer  group  and, thereafter, to reduce the gap
between the price of gas and that of substitute fuele to mobilize resources
for the Budget.   In  July  1987  the  Government increased the average gas
price by 25? (with above average  increases of 30S to power, fertilizer and
commercial consumers, and by 25?  to metered domestic consumers), and by a
further 15? effective July 1, 1988.  Following those increases the average
gas price (Tk 39.2/mcf) in FY89 is slightly above the estimated economic
cost of supply, including a depletion premium (Tk 38.2/mcf). Further, the
gas price for electricity generation is now about 502 of the price of fuel
oil (para. 61).



-24-
Under  the  Second  Gas   Development  Project  (Cr.1586-BD),  the
Government agreed to the principle of gas companies self-financing a
reasonable proportion of their annual investment programs. However, the
margins on gas prices received by companies are relatively low and are a
major cause of  their weak  financial  position.    The additional revenue
generated by past increases in gas prices has been divided approximately
90? to the Government and 102 to the gas companies. Consequently the
margin on gas prices received by the gas companies has been inadequate to
allow them to be financially viable and to self-finance a reasonable
proportion of their investment  programs.    Preliminary estimates for FY88
indicate that the gas companies made a financial loss and had a small
negative rate of return on total capital employed. Gas company margins
need to be increased to rectify this situation, and ensure that the
companies are able to cover their operating costs, including depreciation,
and finance a reasonable proportion of their investment programs. In the
few cases where the companies were able to generate profits, they were
captured by the Government  in  the  form  of  dividends.   To address this
issue, Government has agreed that the margin on gas prices received by the
new gas companies to be established under the reorganized gas subsector
(para. 81) would be set at a level to allow each company to cover its
costs, including depreciation, and allow it to cover at least 102 of its
annual investment program from internally generated funds in FY90, 20? in
FY91, 30? in FY92 and 40Z in FY93 and thereafter, and that no gas company
would declare a dividend until the target has been achieved. The achieve-
ment of the FY90 target would require that 80X of the revenue to be
generated by the proposed gas price increase would be retained by the gas
companies.
71.      Electricity.  During FYSO-88 BPDB's tariff rates were increased by
about 1902 in nominal terms and 422 in real terms, representing annual
average increases of about 14.5Z and 4.5Z respectively. However, despite
these increases, only about 10 of BPDB's investment program was financed
from internal funds and, in FY86, average revenue for BPDB and REB was only
about 55S of the estimated economic cost of supply. Further, -he tariff
structure did not adequately reflect the economic costs of supply. These
deficiencies were highlighted in the FY87 tariff study by Coopers and
Lybrand Associates Ltd. (U.K.), for which IDA was the executing agency.
The study showed that the existing tariffs were deficient in a number of
important respects, including: excessive number of tariff categories; rates
for many consumer categories below economic costs of supply; significant
cross subsidization between some consumer groups; and little incentive to
avoid consumption  during  the  system  peak  period.    These deficiencies
pointed to the need to change tariff structures and increase tariff levels.
72.      Under the Second  Rural  Electrification  Project (Cr.1633-BD) and
the  Power  Transmission   and   Distribution   Project  (Cr.1648-BD),  the
Government agreed to implement, in phases, beginning December 31, 1986 or
later date as agreed with IDA, revised tariffs satisfactory to IDA based on
the tariff study's recommendation and to set tariff levels to meet agreed
financial criteria. In conformity with that agreement, the Government
increased BPDB's bulk supply tariff rate for supplies to PBSs by 202 on
May 1, 1987, increased its average tariff rate by about 17? on August 1,
1987, and by a further 2.5X effective July 1, 1988 because of the increased



-25-
price of gas.    BPDB's  average  revenue  is  now  about  702 of estimated
economic costs of supply. The Government has agreed a phased program to
reform power tariff structures based on the tariff study's reconendations.
The first stage reform, which was implemented in August 1987, included: (i)
a reduction in the number of tariff categories by half to nine; (ii) a
phased program to introduce time-of-day bulk supply tariffs for 33-kV
consumers; (iii) a phased program to introduce a time-of-day tariff for
11-kV consumers; (iv) introduction of an optional time-of-day tariff for
large low voltage consumers; and (v) the reduction of the size of the
subsidized first block for residential consumers from 100 kWh/month to 70
kWh/month and of the second block from 400 kWh/month to 200 kWhImonth. The
agreed initial reform of PBS tariffs in August 1987 included: (i) the
introduction of a new tariff category for high voltage consumers with a
structure similar to that of the bulk supply tariff; (ii) the introduction
of a time-of-day tariff for large low voltage consumers, including
irrigation, and (iii) the replacement of the single rate tariff for
residential consumers by a three block increasing tariff, with the same
blocks as those set in BPDB's equivalent tariff. The Government has agreed
that implementation of further tariff increases from July 1, 1989 to comply
with existing financial covenants and continued implementation of agreed
reforms to tariff structures would be conditions of second tranche release.
The reforms would include further reductions in the sizes of the first and
second blocks for supplies to residential consumers to 0-50 kWh/month and
51-185 kWh/month respectively, and discontinuing the practice of basing
demand charges on connected load for industrial and commercial consumers
with connected loads above 20 kW and introducing charges based on recorded
maximum demand.   The  average  monthly  consumption  of BPDB's residential
consumers is about 100 kWh; about 222 of residential consumers (accounting
for about 4S of  sales)  use  less  than  50  kWh/month.   Thus, the tariff
restructuring for residential consumers protects small consumers while
minimizing the subsidy to large consumers.
Energy Conservation
73.      Energy consumption per unit  of industrial output is significantly
higher in Bangladesh than for similar processes under similar conditions
elsewhere. The development of an energy conservation program for the
industrial and power sectors was supported under the Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation Project (Cr.1357-BD).    The Energy Monitoring Unit
(flU) set up under that project carried out about 50 energy audits and
prepared a draft energy conservation program for the industrial and power
sectors.   The  energy  audits  identified  substantial  scope (12-1SZ) for
improving energy use efficiency in the industrial and power sectors, which
would save  about  323,000  tons  of  oil  equivalent  a  year.    The FY89
Industrial Energy Efficiency Project (Cr.1942-BD) is designed, based on
those audits, to reduce the annual  consumption of comercial energy by the
industrial and power sectors by 5-6S a year. Consequently, no action is
required under the proposed credit concerning energy conservation.



-26-
D. Institutional Performance and Develogment
74       hlle it is  Important  that  reforms  are made concernlng energy
pricing and investment, these reforms will only enable Bangladesh to make
the most efficient use of its limited resources If they are supported by a
program of  institutional  reform  and  development.   Four publicly-owned
entities, PPDB, REB. BOGOM, BPC, and their subsidiaries, are responsible
for the production, transport and delivery of commercial energy In
Bangladesh. According to their statutes these are autonaous bodies that
operate under the auspices of the Ministry of Energy and Mineral tesources.
In practice, however, the Government maintains tight control of the indivi-
dual entities' daily operations, financing, investment and recruitment
decisions   ?he Planning Commiss-on  is  responsible for the Integration of
energy plans and investment Into the macroeconomlc plans and approval of
projects. However, delays by the Planning Commission in approving projects
and sanctioning expenditure for equipment, materials, and manpower causes
delays in project implementation, resulting in cost overruns, slippages and
shortages of key personnel.    Under  the Thirteenth Imports Program Credit
(Cr.1655-BD) (IPC-13) the Government undertook to have the draft Project
Proforma  1/  reviewed   by   the   Project   Evaluation  Committee  before
negotiations for IDA Credits and to obtain final approval by the Executive
Committee of the National EconomLc Council before credit signing. Although
these changes have helped to clarify procedures they have not significantly
accelerated project processing.   The wider  issue concerning the role and
functions of the Planning Commission is being addressed under an on-going
Public Expenditure Review (FY89), the recommendations of which are expected
to be pursued under the proposed structural adjustment operation (Y91).
Consequently, no action in these areas is proposed under this credit.
75.      Institutional weaknesses  in  energy  sector  entities, especially
BPDB and BOGMC,  lead  to  serious  lnefficiencies  in  the energy sector's
operation, maintenance, and management.    Power  subsector system losses,
technical and non-technical, were about 462 in October 1987, more than
double the level of a well-designed and operated power system; BPDB's
collection of billings has been inadequate and was only 81S In FY68. The
performance of the BOGMC Group in implementing gas development projects has
been uneven. Some projects have suffered from the lack of centralised
project authority.   More  generally,  insufficient delegation of responsi-
bility to project managers, frequent changes in top management, and lengthy
procurement  procedures   have   delayed   some  projects'  implementation.
Finally, the absence of a lead institution to plan, set priorities, and
oversee a program to increase the supply and efficient use of traditional
energy has impeded that subsector's development.
Reform of BPDB
76.      BPDB is a statutory  government  entity which  was formed in 1972
with responsibility for planning, construction and operation of power
generation, transmission and distribution facilities throughout Bangladesh
except in areas served by  REB.    BPDB's performance has been consistently
weak, as manifested by unreliable and poor quality electricity supply, very
high system losses, low manpower productiLvity, inadequate financial and
1/  An  internal  government document,   the   approval  of  which  is  a
prerequisite for the release of funds from the ADP and the hiring of
staff.



-27-
accounting management, high accounts receivable, low self-financing levels,
and ineffectual planning.   The major causes of BPDB's poor performance are
the unclear definition of the responsibilities of the chairman and board
members, who also comprise BPDB's top management, excessive centralization
of responsibility and particularly insufficient delegation of respon-
sibility to key staff in the distribution function, and lack of autonomy
with Government intervention occurring regularly on day-to-day matters.
Contributory causes of the unsatisfactory performance have been instability
in top management (e.g., ten different chairmen over a period of 14 years),
lack of an appropriate incentive system to reward good performance by
management and staff, and considerable overstaffing, particularly of the
distribution function.
77.      IDA and ADB  have  addressed  some  of  these institutional issues
through past project lending. Some progress has been made, particularly in
the areas of improved distribution accounting systems, initiation of steps
to computerize billing, and the establishment of special task forces to
address high system losses; however, much remains to be done. To determine
the priorities for restructuring BPDB, under the proposed credit the
Government obtained financing from ODA (UK) for a diagnostic organi-
zational, financial and management study of BPDB. Terms of reference (TOR)
for the study, which were agreed by the Government, IDA, ADB and ODA,
required the consultants to identify the factors impeding BPDB's efficient
operation and development, develop proposals to address these factors,
Including the possible reduction of BPDB's distribution function through
the establishment of separate distribution companies in large metropolitan
areas, and formulate a dated implementation program. The consultants' key
recommendation was that BPDB's distribution function should be decen-
tralized to strengthen the interface between BPDB and its consumers with a
view to controlling system losses and accounts receivable. Further, the
consultants recommended that: the generation and transmission functions
should be separated within BPDB; planning should be reorganized and made
responsible for corporate planning and power system planning and analysis;
and the roles of BPDB's finance and personnelladministration departments
should be strengthened. These recommendations were agreed in principle by
Government and donors in  early  1988.    In November 1988 Cabinet approved
BPDB's reorganization on the foregoing basis and agreed that Dhaka
Electricity Supply Authority (DESA) would be established as a separate
entity effective July 1, 1990.    Government has agreed that DESA's perfor-
mance would be assessed during FY91-PY93 and additional boards would be
created if its performance is significantly better than that of distri-
bution regions which remain within  BPDB.    The Government has also agreed
that implementation of the key steps in the dated action program to reform
BPDB would be a condition of second tranche release.
Reduction of Power System Losses
78.      System losses have  been  and  are  a major  cause of BPDB's weak
operational and financial performance, with losses of 33-43? of gross
generation in FY80-88 and a peak level of 461 in October 1987. Analysis
indicates that the FY88 level of losses comprised 20? technical losses,
including 6? used by power stations, and 23? non-technical losses.
Technical losses are primarily caused by improperly planned and overloaded



-28-
distribution systems, while improper billing, illegal connections and
incorrect metering are the main causes of non-technical losses. During the
Second Five Year Plan, BPDB lost an estimated Taka 2,680 million (US$82
million) because of non-payment for electricity, much of which was attri-
butable to  large  industrial  consumers  who  represent  less  than  12 of
consumers but about 45 of billed amounts.
79.      The major effects of the inordinately high system losses are thats
(i) BPDB loses substantial revenues (e.g., in FY88 the reduction of losses
by  one  percentage  point  and  their  conversion  into  sales  would have
increased BPDB's revenue by about US$3 million or 1.5Z of its FY88
operating revenue); and (ii) higher tariff increases are required to
achieve agreed financial targets (the reduction of losses from 302 to 28X
in FY90 would reduce the tariff increase required to meet BPDB's FY90
financial target  from  about  12.5Z  to  about  9.52).    Under  the Power
Transmission and  Distribution  Project  (Cr.1648-BD), BPDB appointed UNDP-
financed consultants, with the United Nations Department of Technical
Cooperation for Development (UNDTCD) as executing agency, to address the
problem of losses (para. 53).    BPDB  also agreed to implement the consul-
tants' agreed recommendations in a timely manner, with the expectation of
reducing losses to about  32Z  in  FY88.    However, formulation of a dated
action program was delayed, first  because  of  the late appointment of the
consultants and, second, because in January 1988 UNDTCD terminated the
consultants' contract due  to  poor  performance.    In  August  1988 a new
consultant was appointed to complete the assignment by August 1989.
Possible funding for the renovation program to be recommended by the
consultants to reduce rystem wide technical losses would be considered
under the proposed FY90 Power Distribution and Rehabilitation Project. In
view of the adverse impact of high system losses on BPDB's financial
viability, the financing of its investment program, and on future tariff
increases, the Government agreed to implement a short-term program, which
was revised in February 1988 in consultation with ADB and ODA, to reduce
non-technical losses, and to reduce gross losses to an average of 352 over
a period of three months before Board presentation and to 322 for second
tranche release, also over three  months.   Moreover, once target levels of
losses have been achieved, the Government has agreed to report and review
with IDA the cause of any monthly increase in losses above that figure.
Gross losses were reduced to an average of 35Z during June-December 1988,
and were 342 in December 1988 (net of power station consumption, losses
were 28X).
Reoaranization of the Gas Subsector
80.      Partly for historical reasons, the gas subsector has suffered from
fragmented organization. The Government has been aware of the need to
streamline the sector's organizational structure to improve its operating
performance and planned to undertake a major reorganization of B06KC and
its operating affiliates.



-29-
81.      A diagnostic study of  BOGMC's organizational and managerial weak-
nesses and of the Government's reorganization plans was carried out by IDA
with the assistance of an international management consultant in the course
of appraising the Second Gas Development Project (Cr.1586-8D). The study
recommended the consolidation of all drilling activities within a single
entity while maintaining a strong centralized project implementation capa-
bility within BOGMC. To prepare a program for the proposed reorganization,
the Government subsequently requested assistance from ODA (UK) to finance
consultants. The Government agreed under Cr.1586-BD that the gas subsector
should be reorganized, satisfactory to IDA, by July 1, 1986. The delayed
appointment of consultants (Coopers and Lybrand Associates Ltd. were
appointed in August 1986 and mobilized in November 1986), necessitated a
new timetable.   The  consultants  submitted  their final report, including
their main recommendations for the reorganization and an implementation
program, in April 1987.
82.      The Government has agreed  both  the  principles  for the gas sub-
sector's reorganization based on the study's recommendations and a dated
implementation  program.     Under   the   reorganization  all  operational
activities currently carried out by BOGMC are being divested and reor-
ganized, together with those of the existing companies (i.e., BGPCL, SGFL,
TGTDC, JGTDC and BGSL), under a new set of operationally independent
operating companies  (OCs).    BOGMC will  operate  as  a holding company,
holding equity in the OCs on behalf of the Government and be responsible
for investment planning and monitoring as well as sector policy formu-
lation. The OCs placed under BOGMC's control will include a national
exploration and drilling (E&D) company with separate explorationldrilling
and petroleum services divisions, a centralized production company a
national transmission company which will be established prior to the
commissioning of the planned north-south pipeline and integration of the
national gas grid, initially three regional distribution companies, a
compressed natural gas company, and, following the initiation of a signifi-
cant minerals project, establishment of a company responsible for solid
minerals exploration  and  development.    In  the  interim  BOGMC would be
responsible for  solid minerals  exploration  and  development.   The OCs'
Boards of Directors would include BOGMC representatives but no Government
representatives, Government's con; rol would be exercised through BOGHC's
own Board.
83.      The revised  BOGMC  Ordinance  to  establish  lOGMC  as  a holding
company was approved  by  Parliament  in  February  1989.    All of the new
operating companies, with the exception of the E&D company, had been
legally established by early 1989, and the E&D company will be legally
established through the registration of its Articles of Association with
the Registrar of Companies, by May 31,  1989.   The Board members of BOGMC
and the OCs will be appointed by July 31, 1989.
Accounts Receivable and Payable
84.      In addition to relatively  low  and  poorly structured tariffs, in
the past energy sector entities in Bangladesh accumulated excessive amounts
of arrears, which caused liquidity strains and made it difficult for them
to pay bills on time and achieve satisfactory levels of financial perfor-
mance. Although there is scope for further reduction some improvements in
billings and collections have occurred in recent years and the overall



-30-
level of receivables has declined. Based on unaudited data, as of the end
of the first quarter of FY89 the total receivables for BPC, BOGMC and BPDB
was estimated at Tk 9.6 billion (US$291 million). This was equivalent to
about 25 months of sales revenues for BPC, 4.5 months for BOGMN and 5
months for BPDB. Of the total amount, about Tk 3.7 billion (402) was due
from BPDB to BPC.    The  size  of  BPC's accounts receivable was addressed
under the Refinery Modification and LPG Recovery and Distribution Project
(Cr.1749-BD), wherein the Government agreed that BPC and its subsidiaries
would provide credit for only 45 days and that BPDB would reduce the
amounts owed to BPC and its subsidiaries for petroleum products purchased
up to June 30, 1986, by paying at least Tk 50 million per month until such
amounts are fully paid.   BPC  and  BPDB have complied with this agreement.
and during the six months ending October 1988, BPC reduced its accounts
receivable from BPDB  by  nearly  102.    Under  the Second Gas Development
Project (Cr.1586-BD), it was agreed that BGSL would maintain its accounts
receivable at no more than 3 months of gas sales. However, in January 198'
its accounts receivable were 3.7 months of gas sales.
85.      Under the Power Transmission and Distribution Project (Cr.1648-BD)
it was agreed that BPDB's accounts receivable should not exceed the 3.5
preceding months' sales by June 30, 1989 and thereafter. However, its
accounts receivable increased from Tk 2,666 million (US$86 million) at
June 30, 1986 to Tk 3,176 million (US$103 million) at January 31, 1987
(equivalent to about 6.2  preceding months'  billings).    In view of this
deterioration, the Government agreed intermediate targets for BPDB, namely
reduction of its total accounts receivable to the equivalent of 4.5 months'
billings before Board presentation, and to 4.0 months' billings before
credit effectiveness. Further, Government also agreed that for both Board
presentation and credit effectiveness, all other energy sector entities
would be in compliance with existing agreements for accounts receivable.
BPDB's accounts receivable were reduced to the equivalent of 4.5 months'
billings in December 1988, in which month BGSL's receivables were reduced
to the equivalent of three  months'  gas  sales.   The conditions of second
tranche release pertaining to accounts receivable are: the reduction of
BPDB's accounts receivable to the equivalent of 3.5 months' billings;
continued compliance by all other energy sector entities with existing
agreements on accounts receivable; and completion of the aging of accounts
receivable which BPDB initiated in early 1987 to assist the Government in
formulating and implementing a policy for writing off bad debts.
Traditional Energy
86.      There has been growing evidence in Bangladesh of dwindling biomass
supplies, on which the majority of the population depends, and a resulting
increase in the substitution of commercial for traditional fuels. The
efficient development of the energy sector requires the planning authori-
ties to (i) assess both the microeconomic and macroeconomic impacts of this
substitution, including the rate, location, magnitude and balance of pay-
ments impacts; and (ii) formulate a least cost strategy for meeting the
growth in camercial energy demand as well as an action program for
improving traditional  energy  end-use  efficiencies.    The Government has



-31-
agreed that an inter-fuel substitution study should be undertaken under the
joint  World  Bank/UNDP  Energy  Sector Management Assistance  Program to
address these issues. The study, which is planned to commence by mid-1989,
would focus on the peri-urban areas and the rural poor. The Government has
agreed to review with IDA the results of the study and jointly prepare an
implementation program, including a financing plan.
PART V s THE CREDIT
Background
87.      The proposed credit is the second sector adjustment operation In a
revised lending strategy for Bangladesh, in which a mix of sector and
structural adjustment credits will be used to achieve broad policy and
Institutional reforms while transferring quick-disbursing resources to be
used primarily to finance general imports. The revised strategy focuses on
key issues which have sector-wide implications and thus can be more effec-
tively addressed under sector adjustment credits than more narrowly defined
project operations.    The  first  operation  under  the  new strategy, the
Industrial Sector Credit, was presented to the Board in June 1987; its
major objective was to achieve higher rates of industrial growth to meet
domestic  demand, expand   exports   anC   create  employment  outside  of
agriculture.
88.      In the energy sector,  although  some  progress  has been made via
projects operations in addressing key sector issues, much still remains to
be done. The reform of the energy sector will be a long-term process in
which continued IDA support can play a useful role. The proposed Energy
Sector Adjustment Credit provides a comprehensive long-term framework for
policy actions and, therefore, would be the basis for IDA's lending for
specific energy  investments.    In  addition,  the  policy framework would
facilitate donor coordination (para. 45).    This approach, a sector credit
in support of an agreed long-term policy framework, followed by lending for
specific investments, has substantially enhanced IDA's dialogue with the
Government, fostering intensive and focused discussions on issues which cut
across energy subsectors and which otherwise would have been treatsd, if at
all, in a piecemeal and less coordinated fashion through project lending.
89.      The proposed credit would be  the  first IDA credit supporting the
6overnment of Bangladesh's program  of policy and institutional adjustments
in the energy sector.    The  program's  development  and the reforms to be
supported under the proposed credit are described in Part IV of this
report. A timetable of key events relating to the credit and its special
conditions are listed  in Annexes  III  and V.    The proposed credit was
appraised in March 1987. Technical discussions and negotiations took place
in Washington from July 22, 1987 to July 30, 1987. The Government of
Bangladesh was represented by a delegation led by Mr. Shafiul Alam, then
Secretary of Energy. However, because of the long delay in meeting the
credit's Board presentation conditions, the draft legal documents, particu-
larly dated covenants, were updated in February 1989.



-32-
Procurement and Disbursement
90.      The proposed credit  of US$175 million  equivalent would finance
about 2.81 of Bangladesh's total merchandise imports and about 5.12 of the
gross capital inflows over the disbursement period, fourth quarter of FY89
to second quarter FY91. In view of Bangladesh's need for quick disbursing
program aid (para. 14), the funds to be provided under the proposed credit
would be used to finance imports of any goods other than those specified in
a shortlist of  ineligible  items.    Imports  directly financed from other
sources would not be eligible for IDA financing. Not more than 25Z of the
proceeds of the credit would be used to finance the import of any commodity
or group of commodities falling within a single two-digit Division of the
Standard   International   Trade   Classification   tSITC),   Revision   2.
Disbursements will be fully documented except in respect of small contracts
for less than US$50,000 equivalent which would be on certified Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) vith the relevant support documentation retained by
Bangladesh Bank and made available for review by IDA representatives during
supervision missions. Credit withdrawals based on SOEs would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
91.      Procurement would  be  limited  to  goods  from countries eligible
under the Bank's  Guidelines  for  Procurement.    Both  public and private
sector imports would be  eligible  for  financing.   Except for proprietary
items, all import orders costing the equivalent of US$2,000,000 or more
would be procured under contracts awarded after International Competitive
Bidding; IDA would review procurement decisions after such contracts have
been signed and prior to the first payment in respect of such contracts
from the special account to be established by Bangladesh Bank for the
credit. Non-proprietary items costing less than US$2,000,000 equivalent
could be procured through normal procurement procedures for such purchases,
which generally include the invitation of quotations from no fever than
three suppliers. Contracts for commonly traded commodities may be awarded
on the basis of price quotations available from organized international
commodity markets. Contracts for proprietary items or equipment, subject
to domestic standardization regulations endorsed by IDA, could be let on a
negotiated basis, but the award of such contracts would be subject to prior
approval by IDA if individual contract value exceeds US$200,000 equivalent,
up to an overall ceiling of US$10,000,000 equivalent. IDA would conduct a
post disbursement review of all contracts signed with values exceeding
US$500,000 equivalent, and would conduct similar reviews of all other
contracts on a random basis.
92.      Disbursements would be made  against  1002 of the foreign exchange
costs of eligible imports on the basis of fully documented withdrawal
applications prepared by Bangladesh Bank. It is expected that the proposed
credit would be fully disbursed in about 18 months. A special account of
US$30 million equivalent would be established in the Bangladesh Bank for
the proposed credit for the purpose of prefinancing all eligible items. In
order to support the Government's policy of liberalizing its foreign
exchange market system, the credit's proceeds would be used to finance
expenditures through the secondary foreign exchange market.



-33-
Tranchina
93.      The credit's proceeds would  be  eligible  for withdrawal in two
tranches. The first tranche of SDR 58.71 million would be available for
withdrawal when the proposed credit becomes effective. The second tranche,
of SDR 78.29 million, would be available subject to IDA being satisfied,
following a review by December 31, 1989, that the Government is following
sound energy sector policies, including meeting the agreed conditions for
second tranche release (Annex V).
Cofinancing
94.      The Government of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany proposes to
provide, through parallel financing under terms and conditions similar to
those for the proposed credit, a grant of DM 26 million to finance general
imports. Further, the Government of Japan has indicated that following
approval by the Board, it would consider the provision of supplementary
financing for the proposed credit.
Benefits and Risks
95.      The  proposed  credit would make  a major  contribution  to the
achievement of Bangladesh's objectives for the energy sector development.
The credit's preparation has assisted the Government in undertaking a
program of sector-wide reforms urgently needed to improve the sector's
performance and net contribution to the Budget. Consequently, the major
benefits would include: a more efficient allocation of resources; improved
investment  planning;  improved   financial   viability  of  energy  sector
entities; the mobilization of additional resources for the Budget; and the
removal of institutional constraints to the efficient development of the
energy sector.
96.      The major risk of the  proposed Energy Sector Adjustment Credit is
that political events may impede implementation of the reform program.
However, to date the Government has demonstrated a strong commitment to a
gradual rationalization of energy sector policies and, in many cases, has
successfully   implemented   measures   involving   politically   difficult
decisions.
PART VI : COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF
97.      The IMF has provided  assistance  to  the Government of Bangladesh
through a series of Standby and Compensatory Finance Facility (CFu)
Arrangements in the early to mid-eighties and three annual arrangements
under the Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) since 1987. A third year
SAF was approved by the IMF Board on February 6, 1987; and SDR 57.5 million
was disbursed pursuant to the first annual arrangement under the Facility.
Subsequently, the IMP Board approved and disbursed SDR 86.3 million on
November 23, 1987 and SDR 38.8 million in mid November 1988, under the
second and third year  arrangements,  respectively.   This brings the total
disbursements under the three SAP arrangements to SDR 183 million.



-34-
98.      Following the floods  in  the  sumer  of  1988,  the IMF approved
special emergency assistance to Bangladesh in November 1988, and an amount
of SDR 71.9 million was  disbursed.    It  is estimated that the total Fund
credit to Bangladesh outstanding at the end of 1988 amounted to approxi-
mately SDR 600 million, or 2082 of the quota.
99.      IMP resources have  been  made  available to support comprehensive
adjustment policies initiated by the Government in 1985, which were subse-
quently developed into a medium-term structural adjustment program with
Bank and Fund assistance.   Macroeconomic management improved substantially
in FY86 and FY87; and has broadly continued in FY88 in line vith that
envisaged under the program; (although there have been some slippages,
notably with regard to the revenue effort and inflation targets, in part
due to disruptions caused by  recent  floods).    As a result, external and
budgetary deficits have been reduced to manageable levels. In FY87, the
Government initiated serious efforts to restore discipline in the domestic
financial markets. Under the medium-term program supported by the SAP, the
Government will endeavor to raise the annual GDP growth rate to at least 5S
with increased focus on alleviating poverty, reduce inflation to 7Z by the
end of the three-year period and limit the external current account deficit
to about 71 of  GDP.    To  achieve  these  objectives, the Government will
attempt to increase investment (both public and private) to levels consis-
tent with macroeconomic stability, raise domestic savings to finance such
increases in investment, and improve resource allocation. Accordingly,
reforms are envisaged in tax policy and administration and the financial
management of public enterprises; public expenditure management; reform of
the financial sector, including further strengthening of loan recovery
efforts  in  the  agricultural  and   industrial  sectors;  and  trade  and
industrial policies.
100.     Bank-Fund collaboration in the policy dialogue with Government has
been close. IDA's objectives under its policy based lending, such as
IPC-13 (Cr.1655-BD) and the Industrial Sector Credit (Cr.1816-BD), have
been coordinated with DMF programs under the Standby Arrangement and incor-
porated in the SAP program. Bank and Fund staff have joiutly prepared the
Policy Framework Papers (PFPs) under the SAW each year, with active Bank
staff participation in IMF missions.    IMP staff have also participated in
IDA missions on tax policy and financial policy, and assisted in the
preparation of reports on these subjects.
PART VII : RECOMMENDATION
101.     I am satisfied  that  the  proposed  credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and reconmmend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
March 22, 1989



-35..                                            ANNEX  I
Page I. of 3
FAC 1 or 3
014-lw  POPUlulis (sUs.)          1*6
19O? psi capita    1 A 08         140
*A. amx oa Grs$ Domestic Ptoda.g                          8. aGuitb vstas(1 pa MOM)
(1gm cugrven Pei"e datsv)                           (rnm oinmt pric  dat)
1165   1973   1160    1985   1906   118              1965-73 1973.40 I98-84  1LOU    198
Gro0s Omnul   Podhuct a.p.      10.    0.    0.0  100.,0  1.00.0  100.0                  0.0    5.?    3.7    4.9    4.0
P41 hz~~ir.ct Tam.  ~   3.1    L.4      S.?     S 2    5.5    5.6..                      .
ftt Inirect IMMIS52.8   57.9   50.3   '9.9   46.9   47.3                       0.4    3.4'    2.7    4.0O    0.1
rauAaTz                       10.7   10.1   14.9   1'..)   14.3   13.5               -4.1   11.9      4.      2.      72
(of aAiab ~ndactur1ng)   .4    6.4    9,9    8 3    8 1        1.5            -1.9   13.3    2.1    1.8    6.4
Bayloas               ~~~~~~34.5   32.0   34.5   3S.9   38.8   39.2            1.5    7.4    4.7    7.1    7.4
Rasmaros Balms          ~~~~-3.7    1.0  -12.9  -10 2    -9.4   -9.3              .       .
tapors of GWS                   9.7    6.0    5.7       6 2    5.9    5.5             -1.3     6.6    4.0   17.6   10.4
?u.zt  of GM                   13.4    5.0   18.6    3-    15.3   14.8                -3.9   14.8    2.3  -13.0   12.6
Total zeiqasatures              103.7   99.0  112.9  110.2  109.4  109.3                -0.3    6.7    3.5    1.3    4.8
Total COe.MUMPia               92.2   90.1   97.9   97 7   97.4   97.8                 0.2    6.3    3.5    1.6    5.5
PWrist. COMAsuPeCs           83.2   66.0   91.5   90.6   89.8 a 89.8                   .      .
Genaral cowmma                9.1    4.0    6.4    7.1    7.7    8.0..                         .
0Gros Dinmatie bauwsft         11.5    8.9   15.1   12. 5    11.8   I1.               -5.4   10.5    3.6   -.0.6    1.0
Fixed Znw.stmt                 ..      .        .    12.5   11.8   11.5                .       .
aroe" 00atL* Sa-Iap               5.0    9.9    2.1    2.3    2.4    2.2                  ..      .      55     34.8  -23.1
Vet Factor 1um                  0.1    0.3    0.1   -0.6   -0.8   -0.7                   .       .
Bat OnyMM  Tmanfers              .      0.6    1.6    3.0    3.8    4.2                 ..      ..
agos" nagioml SayLap.    10.8    3.9    4.7    5.4    5.7                                 ..      .      23    391    -.2
Zn bitLims of LOla              1965   1973   1960    198    198"   1987
(at ionstant 118 pricas)         ---    --       --
Gros Dh"lsti Product            135    133    198    238    250    240                   3    5.?    3.7    4.9    4.0
capacxy to rozg                  13      11      11      17      15     16            -' 7     3.8    7.2  -11.3       9.3
TsurMs Of Trad. Adjustmen         6       3       0       3     -1      -1..                     .
Gr4 omaeDistic Income           141    136    198    242    249    259                -0.3    5.5    3.9    3.0    3.9
Gros Vatima ProdaaCt            135    134    198    237    248    258                 0.0    5.7    3.6    4.7    4.2
Gross National Icmemo           141    137    198    240    247    257                -0.3    5.5    3.7    2.8    4.1
a 100) -   -     ----          -;----Znf1atimn tatea'a" ..--
C. PCLOricelofc                  110s18         "1   1985   1166   1967               196-73 1973-80 1980-86   1166    1967
conAsnsu  Prio"cms(    64)      100.0  143.8  157.8  175.0  192.4  212.4                 8.1   14.5   11.4    9.9   10.4
AWhlasal. Pinces (WI 63)        100.0  128.2  148.9  174.5  182.3  197.3                  .    12.9   11.2    4.5    8.2
rmcLSg& 00P Deftor              100.0  130.8   M  15.    75.0  184.9  207.5              7.3   13.4   11.2    5.6   12.2
?opLLict Kapmmilzis Dan1.       100.0  116.1  153.7  170.6  185.2  205.9                 7.7   13.8   10.7    8.6   11.2
0. Ocher loficators:           1960-73 1973-80 1980-8
Growth nstss(% pa&.):
POPA1t1im                       2.7    2.4    2.6
Labor Force
Gross ifatI. ZaW4= P.C.        -3.0    3.0    1.1
Privat e Cmsuqrie P.C.
Zopoxe Elastiecit:
lqorts (GM$1)/I 01(op)    -145.9    2.6    0.7
KaqinaL aVbIA" Xates:
an"s  MatIinaL SaVing                 -12.6   11.5
ronss DaMatic Savins         -274.2  -16.5    3.5
Mm (part" aversees):
Shame of Total                   1965    1973   1980    :484
LaorIrese nt                  -              --- --
Agriculture                    83.7   79.4   74.8
rahntw                 ~~~4.8    5.2    6.0
Service                        11.4   15.3   19.2
Tota                           99.9   99.9  100.0



-36-                                                ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
mmme - somm nzc&w
VAC I OF S
Vblu_  h9d    (S9100O)                  Vlus at O       t:Flt    (wilm   MS$)
E. Se,t iIA    ZOa                 JIM      196     LOU      196     16      197    18    1963    1986    1OU           196  19 l  ?
X.OAM.Y                             100   116.3    96.3    7S.6   116.9   113.9        1"      110      U?      11       14      106
X.wQD.FSM                           100   231.9   323.6   322.6   396.6   383.3         87      72                7      113     136
x.,a.AmIs                           100   112.7   12.5W        96    67.6     16        66      so       85      70       61     135
X.IW.FA                             100   128.2   128.2   108.8   124.8    8.5          33      46       69               33      30
,uatx                                  *.      *..     s.      .        .       .        .       .        .       .        .       .
P*uaL                               100O  1S1.3   121.6   12.4   1268   161 ".9        392     401      663    .36       688     669
Tota  zootF                         100   121.5   127.5   120.9   134.9   160.8        722     68?      G1      93       619    1074
V.  t     _a~g  ?aSt
Feet 100                                      75    76    100 5        69    95.7      716     473       8      60?      36?     62
fuel and ng                         100    91.2    83.4    91.9   139.6   104.1        303      411     355     35       359     230
Oth  _                                ..      ..       ..       .       ..      .. SOWS
Capita Sad 100   117.6   109.6   113.3   1:3.9   14.                                  5465,    655     599     616      691    1003
Stal Tqna CW                        100    n.8       102   117.6      107   118.6    2372    226    2333    2667    2366    260
0. IS       of  Sgai (1986100)      1980    196     1966    1985    1986    1987
1Seathd.         Price  iSa       100.0    78.3    88.1   107.0    86.1    92.5
Ibde. taporti.  I.d               100.0   100.9    97.3    95.1    93.1    93.1
Scd. Tem of Trade                100.0    7.6   90.6   112.6    90.3    99.3
35 .L1mw  (at curQent pries):
B. ueau* of 1pauta                 1960    19"      19t6    18       1986    1987
taport. of Coo"    IQS                U      S9     1033    1162    1063    1301
3bwAa se C)                         2      66       1S1     936    6S9    1076
war tar serices                   163      213     Z        228     224      227
Impra  of coo"   as                236      2465    236    2866    28         26
Ser.b:Lae (V)                    2372    2309    2353    2647    2366    2620
Net-y.tar Se.i..                  173       56     190      217     223      256
_laumae  BablWe                   -160   -1566   -1510   -1702   -15"   -1576
lWt arer I=MM                         16    -169      -64     -90    -126    -.22
(lngmt  per am                     6?      6i       74       91     108     133
Not Clrrant Trawfau                 210      628     62       47?     S6       731
(Amace tr Ltte s)                 19?      576     527      3"      497     617
OAQznt A.mt kline                 -1436   -07    -947   -1324   -1086    -966
LterATam Capttal 1.11.w            1275      272    1176    1267    1115    1338
Diretinwaj                          0        0       0        0       2        2
O tffcL Capital Gums              592      720     708      701     963       57
Not LT LO_  (MS data)             668      676      37      *68     U3       733
Othe  LT hn1   (lt)                 i5      78      34       79    -663      -56
Toel Other Item  (t01)               -43      36    U1        -10      97    -169
et1 SEn TaO  Cti4ta                11      -30     161       -S      to    -100
capust nm. 3.3.1.                   0        0       0        0       0        0
braze a     OLealme               -34       66     -37       -5      87      -69
_apsa UI let  1aserwe               204    -200    -355        77    -128    -203
oneCrdit fraic the b1              21       4?      19       -7     -28      134
Othet R AS.gw  Chow"              18      -247    -376       84    -100    -337
AS Sam of 00Pt
Umourc  alsi'                   -13.0   -12.9  -10.    -10 6   -10.0   -9.0
Sava   PaYinr                     0.6      0.6     O.5      0 6     0.7      0.8
OUmM lOcJUS  1ala1g.            -11.2    -9.1    -6.8    -8 2    -7.0    -5.5
lbaeh  Itema
leawe   1ML. add (al. US$)           300     526      390     3117    09       83
leswe  iI=. Cod4 (0l. US4)           331    6S6       60      316      430     869
Offs"l X-ta   (/tlS1  0           15.68   23.76   24.93   26 30   29 89   10 63
Zair nlff.X- t-t          1960   100.00   94.10  106.37  10?  o0 i        01   89.70
0go  ( 1W  of OtUTm  u8)   1U              12160   16026   160)7 0   419   17603
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............................................................ -_ ---..... - ---     .___.._._.. __.. . _ ___........-



-37-                                                 ALMEX I
Page 3 of 3
WAzAD=                                            IA4WUVU- Z@OC DCAIU
MX 3 (w 3
_,,,,,,__.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    - --- --- ----- - - -- -- -.... -.__ -..... -_ -..---------_
Shards of CDP (2)                                  Growth RAte
..   _ -   -      -                        -..-.... -.. . _ _
O.mc Receips                       8.8     8.8     6.2     6.6      9.2     9.0                    13.5   25.6    17.7    14.3
Q=Mn IxpuitueA                    5.5     6.6     6.6     6.7      7.5    7.2                     20.9    20.3    24.?      6.9
Curn  Bu       .                   3.3     2.2     1.6      1.9     1.7     1.8                       -       -        -       -
Capital R-epta                       -       -                    -                   - _                  _    _        .
Capitl  apuAi.uwe                 14.2   13.)    10.6       9.4     9 0     9.9                    12.2    11.0    12.3    21.3
Ual Deficit                     -10.7  -11.2   -9.2   -1 5    -7.3   -8.1                            -        -       -       -
Offical Captal CrWa t              8.8      9.8     8.0     6.9     6.6     7.4                     14.6     2.9     9.9    26.9
Eatamal Borrowing (Vat) 
Dowustc NRnBank Flnuing            0.4      1.2       -     0.8     0 7     0.2                        -       -       -       -
gtBak Financing                    1.5     0.2      1.2   -0.2   -0.2       0.5                        -       -       -       -
lkt Disbursemnts fuSS milllons)          Debt Ou 4tUdig * DiSbuZsed (8U lOUlm)
J. lateral C ittal nlw, Debt   ----- ------             ------------------------    ------
ad Debt BuIrdu Rti.            198O    1963    1964    1965    1986    1987    1960    1963    194    196        16    1967
Public & Publily Cow. LT           646     474      437     468     813     733    3549    4866    5123    5978   2n72    6S
Official C"aCogs                 636      426     409     474     759     735    3491    4742    4979    5630    7063    8632
ihLtatezal                    305     253      331     423     513     456    1385    2097    2386    2899    3529    423S
of th    DIIID                 0       0        0      -1      -1      -1      55      55       50      55      61      70
of wich IDA                  156      196     241     283     342     332     926    1459    161?    2021    2450    2966
Bilateral                      351     173       78      52     246     279    2106    2645    29       2932    3534    4398
Pritvue a csirs                   12       48      27      -7      55      -2      56      124     144     148     209     U9
Supplrs                          s      36       s0      -3      52       7      24       76     105     104     156     166
FV1iaia u*.a.                    7       12      -2      -4       2      -9      35   *8          39      44      52      53
Priwage Nes-gwmted                   0        0       0       0       0       0       0                0       0       0       0
Total LT                           668    474       437     468     813     733    3549    4866    5123    5978    72       8651
VUCWedi                             94      51      -60      23     -10      43     269    "41       36      424     461     51
Net cat-Tm Capta                    11      -30    16       -s      10    -100    212       170     133     135     125      74
ToItliacl. D  &xtS                 774      494     538     '85     613     676    4030    5477    5613    6556    789    9506
d IDA Rati                       196O    1963    1964    1985    1966    1987
Shae of Tot&l IA-Ter DM                                                                 Notes:
1. I     as 2 of Total            1.55    1.13    0.97    0.92    0.64    0.79
2. IDA as I of Total             26.09   29.9    32.4   33.81   33.66   33.73           Data on Econmc  i2 ceatos tables
3 -IRD..3DA as   d of Total      27.64   31.11   33.7n   34.72   34.53   34.52          should follow the defintitons a
the concepts of the Standard Tables ad
Shae of LT Debt Seive                                                                   Standard Attacets.  The indicators
1. BRD as   of Total              3.96    3."      1.62    1.44    1.82    1.55         should include deat throLZh the moat
2. DA a  I of Total               7.07    7.36    9.20   10.06   10.39   10.73          rcetly coplered Calendar year (or
3. nW*1DA a  2 of Total          11.03   11.00   11.02   11.50   12.21   12.28          filscal yer in the case of fscsl yea
countries). Staff estimates WAy be tsd
000-to4asta lRatios                                                                     Jf final or preliminary actual are not
yet avaLlable. The us  of estmates wA
1. Low-Teo  Debt/flpors         302.38  326.19  316.92  377.46  461.33  453.16          preliminary fIgurs should be )ndIcated
2. Dl Cg.dilporc                 22.92   29.57   22.03   26.74   29.26   29.77          by:
3. g ert-TmDehtlaport            18.06   11.40    8.23    8.52    7.93    3.78
4. LT+.W.4  D000/firta          343.35  367.16  347.18  412.73  498.52  486.71          * - estimated data
p - peimilnary data
C DP-te-0    Ratios
1. Lon-Te  DebtICP              27.75   40.08   36.53   37.28   47.04   50.26
2. WfU Cgedt/OP                   2.10    3.63    2.54    2.64    2.98    3.30
3. Umie-Ter  DebetIGP             1.6"    1.40    0.95    0 84    0.81    0.42
4. LT+Dlt+ST D0M/G               31.51   45.11   40.02   *0 76   50.83   54.00
Debt service IZaw.s
1. Public & GurUSeed Lt           6.63    9.02   10.55  1: ZE   :7 09   ;6.55
2. Privee   LT                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0 :0    0 00    0.00
1. Total. LWT_S Debt Service   8.63    9.02   10.55   I  .3  1:7 09   16 55
4. DV    b      _      . cah.
5. Taret only o  ST Debt
6.  tal (LTS+nv+  iT.)
---___ --------- ____. - ---------    ,,___,,, -_,-----_



-38-                                      ANMV
Po9 Xw I
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
THE STATUS OF BAW  GROUP OPERATIONS IN AGLAUDESH o/
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credit. (as of September a0. 1988)
Amount6
Loan or                                                             (lowo cancellations)
Credit                                                                U$11 Million bl
Number   Year Borrower          Purposes                        ltak            IDA      Undistbr d
One Loan and 67 Credits fully disbured                           54.90    2,250.98            -
1001     1060  BD   Chittagong Water Supply It                     -         20.00          0.17
114      1982  SD  Drainage & Flood Control U1                     -         27.00          9.06
1215     1982  OD   Extens on & Resoerch II                        -         27.00         14.90
1247     1962  SD   Chittagong Port                                -         60.00         59.64
1264     10O2  BD   Ashunganj Thernal Power                        -         92.00         12.88
1252     1982  B0  Rural Electrtfic ation                          -          40.00         9.88
1287     1962  sD   Deep Tubwell IIs                               -         44.17         25.07
1816     1968SBD  Business Management Education A Training         -          7.80          8.88
1821     1908  B0  Telecommunications III                          -          85.00        21.85
1849     1988  BD  Public Administration (Tralning and
Personnel Managment)                      -          12.00         6.83
1U57     1968  SD   Energy Efficlency and Rfin ery
RehabilItati on                           -          28.50         10.11
1s84      19t8   BD  Rural Development I                           -          78.45        02.25
l80s     1988  B0  Agricultural Training II                        -          0.10          5.41
1399     1988  SD   Sugar Rehbtilitation and In_teification        -          11.64         6.06
1402      1968  OD  Petroleum Exploration PromotIon                -         28.00          9.84
1440     1984  SD   Fifth Technical Assistance                     -         25.00         25.84
1455     1004  BD  Second Agricultural Resorch                     -         24.C0         27.87
1407     1964  BD  Water Development Board                         -         41.50         41.14
1477     104  BD  Textile Industry Rehabilitation SI               -         28.00         20.18
P022     1964  B0  Textile Industry Rehabilitation II              -         22.00         2S.80
1490     1984  BD  Technival Education                             -          86.00        19.98
1574     1986  BD   Second Primary Education                       -         76.00         56.64
1C86     1985  B0   Second Gas Development                         -        110.00        180.J1
191     1986  SD   Third Flood Control A Drainag                  -         48.00         64.29
1688     1986  SD  Rural Electrific'tion II                        -         79.00         84.07
1684     1986  BD  Second Forestry Project                         -         28.00         2C.9
1646     1006  SD  Power Trans. A Distribution                     -         C6.00         60.02
1649     1986  SD  Population A Family Health III                  -         7t.00         81.90
165I     19806   D   Shrimp Culture                                -         22.00         22.48
1784     1966  SD   Dhoke WASA III                                 -         80.00         80.18
1749     1987  60  Refinery Modifteition A LPG
Recovery A Distribution                    -          47.00        46.0?
1784     1067  3D   Fourth Flood Control A Drainage                -         20.00         19.48
116      1987  B0   Industrial Sector                              -        190.00         2S.69
1827     1987  BD  Road Rehabilitation   Maintennce                -        102.00         09.20
1870    1988  sD   2nd Smal I Scale Flood Control                 -         81.60         79.02
1676     1988  SD   2nd Flood Rehabilitation                       -         26.00         16.74
1980 bl  1988  BD  Urban DevelopmenO                               -         47.60         44.89
1940E    1986  SD   RuraL Roads & Markets l provemnt               -         62.80         55.07
1942 kl  1989  8D   Industrial Enrgy Ef lcioney                              11.40         10.71
Total                                                       54.00    4,058.62      1,859.60
-F-JNICH HAS BEEN REPAID                                   6.88        80.10          -
TOTAL NOW OUTSTANDIN                                        W          ,02S.02         -
AUNT SOD                                                          -    -             -
TOTAL NOW HELD BY SANK AND ID                               48.52    4.028.52
TOTAL UNDISSURSED                                            -.85.60
IDA sixth  seventh and elghth replenishment.  redits denominated In SOR.
The prlncipal amounts are shown In U.S. dollars euivalent at negotiations as swn In the
Prslident's Reports. The undlrsed amount. are calculated at the rate of exchang  on
Septeme so, 1968
~  Not yet effective.



-39-
r     t   or 2
S.  Statement of IFC  nvest mnt. (tn of Soptk  er 80. 19in)
USSm IllI eon
Uaiesburee
Belec  Inl.
Fiecal                                 Typ  of                              Total Particip.nta  Undlebtred
Year           Obligor                 uaiaee       Equity   Loae Total by IFC    Portlon         2FC Portlon
1969    Kannaphuli Paper Millo Ltd.   Pulp A Paper   0."        5.0   6.21
(This Leon was concelled in 1969/70)
1979    High speed Shipbuilding &
HNtvy Engineering Co., Ltd.  Shipbuliding   0.80      1.20   1.60     -           -            -
2ndub ttl Proootlon and
fot.lope.nt Company of
Bnogladeh, Ltd.              OFC             1.06      -     1.05   1.06           -           -
1980     Induetrial Developmnt         Money a
Leaing Co., of Bangladeeh   Capital
(IDLC)                       Larket          0.17     8.02   8.19  2.67         o.7          0.07
19165/66 sat Sho Co.
(Sangladedh) Ltd.            Shoe            0.61     4.45   4.96 #  .72-
ToUtl           2.72    14.27  16.99   7.44        0.07         0.07



-40-
ANNEX III
BANGLADESH
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I  s       Timetable of Key Events
Preparation Mission                     May 1986
Pre-appraisal Mission                   December 1986
Appraisal Mission                       March 1987
Negotiations                             July 1987
Date of Effectiveness (Planned)          June 1989
Section II :       Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:       Special Condition
It is proposed that the proceeds of the credit be
eligible for withdrawal in two tranches. The first
trmnche of SDR 58.70 million (US$75 million equivalent)
would be released when the proposed credit becomes
effective. The second tranche of 8DR 78.30 million
(US$100 million equivalent) would be released, subject
to IDA being satisfied, following a review by December
31, 1989, that the Government is following sound energy
sector policies as well as meeting the specific
conditions listed in Section IV.



-41-                             ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 11
MIsuy of Planning
Gw_mn  1 60o eOm PopWs Repbric of oaa
Dhaka
INISEr
Q a  N0 ....RD/.IAr.I.YV/P-23/        .. J.aabauerv--6,j"989s
Dear Mr.Conable:
LITTER OF SECTORAL POLICY
Despite structural constraints and repeated disruptions
caused by natural disasters, Bangladesh has made significant
progress   in several  areas.  Policies  toward agricultural,
industrial and export sectors have been strengthened,permitting
the economy to grow at about 3.8% per annum during the
eighties. Growth of foodgrain production averaged 2.7% per year
during the same period; this was faster than that in the 1970's
and was above the population growth rate. Industrial output
rebounded after a period of stagnation in the early eighties -
led by efficient import substitution and export-oriented labour-
intensive activities. Non-traditional exports have grown on
average by over 20% per year in the 198Os.   Development of
domestic commercial energy supplies, especially natural gas, also
increased rapidly,enabling relatively high growth in the power
and fertilizer sectors and significant impurt substitution of
petroleum products.  In recent years,significant   progress has
also been made toward creating a more stable and undistorted
economic environment. Monetary expansion has been brought under
control , the current account of the balance of payments and the
budget deficits have been reduced to manageable and sustainable
levels, and serious efforts have been initiated beginning in FY87
to restore discipline to the domestic financial system.
2.        The energy sector plays  a key role in the development
of Bangladesh.  Given its severe resource limitations and
persistent balance of payments constraints, the country needs an
efficient energy sector to promote economic growth, reduce
foreign exchange outlays on energy imports and mobilize
resources for sector entities and the Government budget. The
Government has focussed its energy strategy on accelerating the
development of natural gas, particularly substituting gas for
imported oil  in electricity generation and replacing fertilizer
imports with domestically produced gas-based fertilizer. The
Second Five Year Plan followed this strategy for the energy
sector, but shortages of both foreign and local resources impeded
achievement of sectoral Plan targets.
3.       In recognition of the importance of improving the supply
of energy to meet the increased needs of agriculture and
industry, the Government accorded high priority in the Third Five
Year Plan (TFYP) (FY86-90) to the development of the energy
sector. Its principal objectives are to: (a) accelerate the
development of domestic natural gas resources to reduce the
country's dependence on imported oil; (b) adjust energy prices to
promote its effi._ient and economic use, taking into account
social objectives; (c) meet energy demand at least cost to the



-42-                             ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 11
MInsWy of Planning
G.vg,nmss of h. PeOpleS Repubrlc of Baowiged
a  no .........                  2                   D  ia.
economy; (d) improve reliability and quality of power supply,
and reduce system losses; (e) improve financial performance of
energy sector entities and mobilize resources required to meet
Bangladesh's development goals; and (f) encourage private sector
participation in the development of the energy sector, especially
in exploration for oil and gas. In keeping with these objectives,
Tk.61,750 million (1984/85 prices) were allocated in the TFYP for
development of the energy sector. Energy accounts for about 16%
of the total Plan allocation compared with about 12% under the
Second Five Year Plan, and is exceeded only by the allocation to
the agricultural sector.
3nerity Dovelosment
4.        Bangladesh's commercially exploitable energy resources
consist of considerable reserves of natural gas and limited
hydropower potential. In addition, Bangladesh has a fast
declining supply of traditional fuels, in the form of crop
residues, animal dung and wood. Natural gas is the main source of
commercial energy, accounting for over 58* of supply. Gas output
more than tripled over the last decade, growing from 29 billion
cubic feet (bcf) in FY76 to about 146 bcf in FY88. The bulk of
gas consumption is in power generation and fertilizer production:
however,other industrial, commercial and domestic uses a e
expanding steadily.  The country's estimated reserves of natur I
gas are sufficient to meet the expected demand for about 20 yea*
and prospects are good for increasing these reserves with a morn
intensified exploration and appraisal program. Moreover, in its
effort to reduce dependence on imported energy and to supplement
the domestic supply of gas, the Government has completed with
IDA's assistance, aDong others, a program of seismic surveys and
geological studies to be used in the preparation of promotional
packages aimed at attracting international oil companies to
explore for oil in Bangladesh.
5.        Bangladesh's hydropower potential is estimated at about
1,500 GVh/year, of which 1060 GWh/year has been developed.   All
existing development is on the Karnafuli river at Baptai. The
remaining potential is located at two other sites on   Sangu and
Matamuhuri whose development would flood prime agricultural land
and require the relocation of about 30,000 people. Consequently,
development of these sites is not presently economic in view of
the high costs and potential social impact involved. Recently,
thick seams of coal have been discovered at mineable depths in
the Barapukuria area in the west zone. The Government ,with the
help of consultants financed through bilateral assistance, is
undertaking a study to assess  the   technical  and economic
feasibililty of mining this coal.
6.          Traditional fuels play a crucial role in meeting
Bangladesh's energy needs. However, their supplies, on a per
capita basis, are continuously diminishing, and an increase in
forest-based fuelwood is not feasible due to the high population



-43-                              ANNEX  V
Page 3 of 11
Minisfp -- Plnning
t                                     Government of the PsopIdX  Repblic of ab"
..           .                                    ad* O     ct...........
3
density and land constraints. The outlook is for reduced
dependence on by-products of agricultural activities and fuelwood
supplies. Given this situation, the Government ts focusing
attention on the more efficient use of traditional fuels and has
prepared a project for financing by external assistance.
7.         Recognizing its need to improve the efficient use of
energy, the Government has set up an Energy Monitoring Unit (EMU)
which has carried out about 50 energy audits to date and has
prepared a draft energy conservation program for the industrial
and power subsectors. Although the energy audits have identified
substantial scope ( 12-15X) for improving energy use efficiency
in the industrial and power subsectors, the EMU has yet to become
effective in promoting energy conservation. Under IDA's
industrial Energy Efficiency Project, the Government expects to
finance energy conservation investments in selected industrial
and power enterprises which should lead to commercial energy
savings of 5-6% a year in the sectors concerned . Institutional
strengthening of the EMU and of financial intermediaries is also
planned.
A. Resource Develop-ment and investment
8.         The development of 8argladesh's primary and secondary
energy resources has progressed in a manner largely dependent on
availability of financial resources including external
assistance. Local currency resource shortages have resulted in
slippages in project implementation, cost overruns and changes in
the content and scope of investment programs. In recognition of
these  shortcomings,  beginning  in  FY83  the  Government
distinguished core and non-core projects with priority being
given to core projects in  the release of funds under the Annual
Development Program (ADP).    The continued reduction of the
country's dependence on imported energy requires the formulation
of a long-term least cost investment plan for each subsector and
their integration into a long-term plan for  the overall energy
sector. This plan would allow for the identification and timely
preparation of high   priority projects, and would indicate the
resources needed for their implementation. Moreover, given the
time required to complete and approve the subsector plans, the
Government plans to pursue a two-pronged approach. The first
would cover the preparation and approval of the long-term plan,
which is expected to take about two years. The second would cover
the identification of a Priority Investment Program (PIP) for
energy for the period FY89-91, which would represent the front-
end of the long-term plan.
Lont-Teru Least Cost Developmeat Plane
9.   Power : The power subsector accounts for about 70% of total
investment in energy and about 17% of total public investment.
Hence, the resolution of outstanding issues adversely affecting



-44-                            ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 11
Minishy of PlInkin
Govemet of the PeopleWs Republic of Bangtad*
MINISdTR                                        e.
b..NO.......                   4                  Oa .         .
its efficient development would contribute significantly to
improved energy planning and resource use in Bangladesh.
Technical losses in the distribution systems are high, depriving
the Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) of badly needed
resources that could be reinjected into the sector.   To rectify
this situation, the Government is  developing a master plan for
the rehabilitation and expansion of the low voltage distribution
network. The existing least cost development plan for generation
needs to be refined, updated and integrated with a least cost
development plan for transmission to ensure the efficient and
economic generation and evacuation of power. The generation,
transmission and distribution plans should then be integrated to
provide the backbone for the development of the power subsector
and to serve as a basis for the coordinated participation of
donors and multilateral agencies in the subsector. In this
context, the Government undertook a study funded by UNDP to
recommend the location and size of a large thermal power plant on
the basis of a least cost solution for generation. Consultants
were mobilized in February 1987, and the drart Final report was
submitted to BPDB in October,1988. The findings of the study will
be reviewed with IDA by April 1989 or soon thereafter, depending
on the time of completion of the study.
10. Oil : The Government has focussed its energy policy on
reducing oil imports and promoting a higher rate of penetration
of gas throughout the economy. This effort has been successful to
a considerable extent: natural gas supplied 36% of Bangladesh's
commercial energy needs in FY80 and 56% in FY86 at the start of
the Third five Year Plan. The scope for further substitution of
liquid fuels by gas is being explored at this stage. However, in
the foreseeable future, imports of petroleum products and crude
oil to be processed at the refinery are expected to continue at
the existing level. Accordingly, the Government is trying to
intensify the search for oil by stimulating the interest of
international oil companies in exploration through an active
promotion program (promotional presentations to the oil industry
are scheduled for early 1989). The discovery of oil at Haripur in
December 1986 should help in this, even though the quantity
involved is modest.
11.       In the past, the operation of Eastern Refinery Limited
(8RL),Bangladesh's only refinery, has been at a sub-optimal level
of efficiency with excessively high energy consumption and a
product mix not fully consistent with demand. The Government
began in 1983 to implement a program to rehabilitate ERL and
improve  its efficiency. These efforts are being continued, with
IDA's support, under the Refinery Modification and LPG Recovery
and Distribution Project, which includes installation of
secondary conversion facilities to increase middle distillate and
reduce fuel oil yields. In the interest of enhancing BRL's
autonomy   and financial accountability,  a revised   mode of



-45-                           ANNEX 1V
Page 5 of 11
Mintsty of Planning
Govwrnment of the People's Republic of BanglWadh
*  *      =                            b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~haka
0 0. No                                             ..... 5  .. ..
remuneration  for ERL  based on a toll processing fee has also
been introduced. While distribution of petroleum products remains
in the domain of the public sector, retail sales are handled by
private outlets and the Government is actively pursuing private
sector participation in LPG storage and distribution through a
pilot program under the Refinery Modification Project financed by
IDA.
12.   Gas : The gas subsector in Bangladesh accounts for
about 30% of total annual investment in the energy sector and is
in essence the sector's backbone. The Government has achieved
considerable success in promoting the exploration and
development of gas reserves and in developing the infrastructure
for the delivery of gas to final consumers. However, the extent
of the Government's success in promoting a higher rate of gas
utilization throughout the economy has been constrained by delays
in project implementation in the major gas consuming sectors,
especially power and fertilizer. The development of the power and
gas subsectors and other major gas-consuming sectors should be
coordinated to ensure that the Five Year development Plans
achieve their objectives and Bangladesh continues to reduce its
dependence on imported oil. With this objective in mind, the
government is formulating a long-term strategy for the efficient
development of the gas subsector which addresses two principal
areas, as follows :
(a) aDDraisal and develoDment: an appraisal drilling program
is being formulated based on detailed seismic results.
Low risk appraisal wells will be drilled to firm up data
on field reserves while, at the same time, ensuring that
production from these wells is sufficient to meet
projected demand with a reasonable safety margin. In the
longer term, further appraisal wells will be drilled to
ascertain the overall magnitude of gas reserves; and
(b) transmission and distribution: the country's gas
infrastructure network needs to be integrated into an
efficiently managed system. To achieve this goal, the
Government commissioned a National Gas Grid Study,
financed by IDA under Credit 1357-BD, to identify
investments and institutional requirements for an
integrated gas grid. The study has been completed and
draft final report has been submitted.
The Government's long-term plan for the subsector will be
detailed in the form of a five-year gas exploration, appraisal,
and development program. The Government intends to discuss
review and update the plan from time to time, as necessary, in
consultation with IDA and other donors.



-46-                            ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 11
Minishy of Planning
Sover_ m_t of the Peoples Rpublk of Bangladesh
*                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dhaka
a 0. meN                       6                   o.
13. Coal :  Although prospects for the discovery of additional
gas reserves are good, the Government considers it important that
the potential of indigenous fuel resources other than natural gas
be evaluated. Recent work by the Bangladesh Geological Survey in
the Barapukuria area of Dinajpur district in the west zone has
located several thick zones at depths less than 130 meters .With
the assistance of consultants financed by ODA , the Government is
carrying out a geological evaluation of the Barapukuria coal
deposits, to be followed by a study to determine the technical,
financial and economic feasibililty of producing coal at this
location. The consultants for the first phase have submitted
their report recently. The work for the second phase should start
soon. The Government intends to review with IDA the results of
the various phases and the completed study.
Priority Investment Proaram
14.        The long-term development  plan-; for the energy
subsectors outlined above would provide the basis for the
sector's integrated development. These would require about two
years to complete and initiate implementation. In the interim,
the Government has outlined a Priority Investment Plan (PIP)
which comprises the high priority projects for the remaining two
years of the TFYP and the first year of the Fourth Five Year Plan.
The Government will take necessary steps to ensure that adequate
resources are allocated to implement these high priority
projects. The indicative PIP for FY89-91, in current prices, is
likely to be of an amount of Tk.40.25 billion, to be divided
among the subsectors as follows : Power - Tk.32.20 billion; and
Oil,Gas & Natural Resources - Tk. 8.05 billion.   To finance its
FY89-91 PIP, the Government intends to contribute Tk.lC.1l
billion from ADP,   including internally generated funds by the
Energy Sector entities   and the remaining Tk.25.10 billion  will
be in the form of external loans and grants. It is understood
that the size of the PIP depends, among others, on the
availability of resources. Subject to this,the implementation of
the PIP will be monitored in detail and updated annually; the
first annual review with IDA occurred in July 1988 with the next
review planned for April,1989.
B. Rnermv Pricing and Resource Mobilization
15.     Economic efficiency, resource mobilization and equity are
key objectives of the Government's energy pricing policy.
However, these objectives have not always been achieved, mainly
because the level and structure of energy prices, particularly of
gas and electricity, did not reflect their economic costs of
supply. Moreover, distortions in the relative prices of
coapeting fuels also made prices inequitable.   The Government,
therefore, has begun to restructure gas and electricity tariffs
and adjust average tariff rates to bring them more into line with



ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 11
MInisfr of Planning
[t_]}~~~~~~~~~~~~o _f                    d npWs Rbulic of  1a f
Oba&a
a O ..7                                           Da............ .
its declared policy objectives.   In the case of petroleum
products, the Government took advantage of the 1986 fall in oil
prices to strengthen the financial position of the Bangladesh
Petroleum Corporation (8PC) and to mobilize resources for the
Government budget.   Petroleum products provided net revenues to
the budget in FY88 of about Tk. 4.93 billion, or about 9.6% of
the Government's overall revenue.
Petroleum Products
16.     The  Government  revised  the mode of remunerating ERL in
early 1987 to encourage greater cost efficiency in the refinery.
The new system consists of BPC paying a toll processing fee to
ERL, based on product yield, refining complexity and a reasonable
return on investment, together with yield norms and a system of
bonuses and penalties.   BPC's  petroleum product prices to the
three   marketing companies are determined,  in principle,  on a
cost-plus basis.   In practice, however, BPC's  prices have not
always reflected changes in import prices, resulting in financial
losses for BPC in the early 1980s.   The level and structure of
retail petroleum product prices are set, in turn, on the basis of
prices charged by BPC to the marketing companies plus a margin to
cover distribution. marketing and other costs, and an ad valorem
custom and excise duty.   Having taken advantage of the fall in
oil prices in recent years, retail prices are now well above
border prices, although the relative pricing structure differs
significantly from that of import prices.   The Government has
reviewed with IDA the present prices and other charges associated
with petroleum products, and their impact on petroleum product
consumption, choice of end-use technologies and the Government's
resource mobilization efforts. The review showed that there was
no evidence that the present structure was causing significant
distortions to the allocation of resources.   Therefore, as part
of the Government's plans to retain the present prices in an
effort to mobilize additional domestic resources as well as to
encourage energy conservation, it has adopted a pricing
principle to ensure that 8PC's weighted average transfer prices
(including excise duty) exceed border prices by at least 15X.
Natural Gas
17.      Gas prices were increased by 20% on July 1, 1985 and 20%
in July 1, 1986.   Although these increases brought the prices
paid by large industries, tea estates, commercial and brick
consumers above the present economic costs of supply, the prices
paid by power, fertilizer, residential and small industrial
consumers (whicb together account for over 80 of consumption)
remain significantly below the economic costs of supply.
Moreover, the prices paid for gas by all consumers remain
significantly below the prices of substitute fuels.  In order to
bring gas prices into line with its overall energy pricing policy
and mobilize resources for the sector entities and the budget,



-48-
ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 11
MInleby of planning
(      _                              e     "G.v.ma    O "  pl"s RepubiC of ntesh
a    o .............           8
the Government has been implementing a program of annual gas
price increase designed to achieve, in a phased program, equality
with the estimated economic costs of supply, including a
depletion premium and to capture a portion of the economic rent
Measured by the difference between the price of gas and that of
substitute fuels. Accordingly, the price of gas was increased on
July 1, 1987, by 30S for power, fertilizer and commercial
consumers and by 25% for residential consumers.   A further
increase of 15% was introduced on July 1, 1988; which made the
average price of gas equal to the economic cost of supply. The
Government will review with IDA annually its further program of
gas price adjustments.
18.       Gas prices received by companies responsible for gas
production, transmission and distribution, net of excise duties
and taxes, are relatively low and are a major cause of their weak
financial position. Preliminary estimates for FY87 and FY88
indicate that gas companies will make a financia:l loss and have a
negative rate of return on total capital employed.   To rectify
this situation, and ensure that companies' earnings can be
applied to investment, the Government plans to increase the
margin on gas prices received by the gas companies to allow each
of them to finance at least 10X  of their annual investment
program from internally generated funds in FY90, 20S in FY91, 30S
in FY92, and 40S in FY93 and thereafter. The dividend policy of
the gas companies will be linked with the above goals.
Electricity
19.        In the period 1980-87 tariff rates were increased by
127S.  However, despite these increases, only 15% of BPDB's
investment program was financed from internal funds and tariffs
remained below the economic costs of supply.   The Government is
restructuring and revising tariffs to reflect the economic costs
of supply on the basis of the recommendations of the power tariff
study. A new, simplified tariff for BPDB was introduced on
August 1, 1987. It has reduced the number of categories from 18
to 10; introduced new 2-rate time-of-day tariffs for 33-kv and
11-kv consumers and an optional time-of-day tariff for large low
voltage consumers; and greatly reduced the sizes of the
subsidized blocks of energy for residential consumers. Further,
BPDD's average tariff rate was increased by 15S effective August
1, 1987.   The Government intends to adjust the tariff further
from July 1, 1989 to give a rate of return of 4* on BPDB's
revalued assets for FY90.   In addition, the bulk supply tariff
rate of supplies to P8Ss was increased by 20% effective May 1,
1987.   This restructuring of the tariff will assist in demand
management and raise additional revenue for BPDR, while at the
same time enable small 'esidential consumers to meet their basis
requirements for electricity at relatively low prices.   Tariffs
for supplies in rural areas by PBSs were restructured effective
July 1, 1987, to include a new tariff category for high voltage



-49-                           ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 11
Minlsfty of Planning
{t}                                   0Govewnment of the People's Republic of Banglah
*  *                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~Dh.ka
MINISNTER                   9
a Q me .... .    ..                              Db..
consumers, a time-of-day tariff for large low voltage consumers
and a three block increasing tariff for residential consumers.
PBSs average tariff levels were increased about 25% on July 1,
1987 and from July 1, 1989, will be increased in accordance with
the financial agreements with IDA under Credit 1633-BD.
C. Institutional Issues
20.      Four Government owned entities,  namely BPDB,  Rural
Electrification Board (REB), Bangladesh Oil, Gas and Mineral
Corporation (BOGMC), BPC and their subsidiaries, are responsible
for production, transportation and delivery of commercial energy
in Bangladesh.   These are autonomous bodies operating under the
auspices of the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources and the
Government oversees the entities' overall operations and their
financing and investment decisions.   Institutional weaknesses,
especially in BPDB, have been responsible for inefficiencies in
the sector's operation, maintenance and management.
Reform of BPDB
21.      In an effort to improve its performance, the Government
plans to restructure BPDB and in FY88 undertook a diagnostic
organizational, financial and management study financed by ODA
(UK).  The  study identified the factors impeding the efficient
operation and development of BPDB and formulated proposals to
address the issues.  The Government has decided, as a first step
towards reorganization of BPDB, to set up a separate Electricity
Authority for Dhaka and to delegate more financial and
administrative authority to the Zonal Chief Engineers.   To
implement this decision, a Steering Committee has been formed and
a dated and monitorable program to reform BPDB is being drawn up
by the Government.
Reorganixation of BOGMC
22.        The Government  also intends  to streamline  the
organizational structure of the gas and mineral subsector to
improve its operating performance by undertaking a reorganization
of BOGMC and its operating entities.   The main features of
the reorganization   are as follows : all operational activities
currently carried out by BOGMC, except mines and minerals, will
be delegated to a new set of operationally independent companies.
These new operating companies include exploration and drilling,
oil and gas production, CNG and three regional companies for gas
transmission and distribution.  BOGMC's functions except for
mines and minerals, would become those of a holding company
responsible for planning, monitoring and sector policy
formulation.   The exploration and drilling company should have
two separate divlsions : one for exploration and the other for



-50-                             ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 11
AMinufy .f Planning
Govenawt of the PopWs Repblc of Ba"lad,
a M .......--......              10              Dam ...---------..---
drilling/petroleum services; each division will maintain separate
financial accounts. The composition of BOGMC's Board of
Directors will be modified to include external representation.
The Government has adopted a timetable for the proposed
reorganization which calls for implementation of key reforms by
mid-1989.
Reduction of Power BZstea Losses
23.        At present, about 16% of electricity supply does not
generate revenue for BPDB because of such factors as improper
metering, illegal connections and inadequate billing procedures.
Most of these non-technical losses are attributable to industrial
consumers, who represent less than IS of consumers but account
for 45S of billed amounts.   System losses are being studied by
consultants appointed under a technical assistan-e project funded
by UNDP. The consultants are expected to develop by mid-1989, a
dated action program to remedy each of the spi-cific causes of
system losses.   In view of the adverse impai t on the power
subsector's development program caused by the erosion of
financial resources resulting from high system losses, the
Government will implement a program to reduce gross system losses
in accordance with targets to be recommended by the consultants
and discussed with IDA.  As an interim  measure, the Government
has initiated a number of actions to reduce gross system lossea
to not exceeding 32% by mid-1989.
Accounts Receivable
24.      The Government  is concerned about  thte serious  and
deteriorating accounts receivable position of energy sector
entities.  Based on unaudited data for mid-1988 for BPC, BOGMC,
BPDB and REB, accounts receivable by energy sector entities
totalled Tk. 9171 million.   Of this total, Tk. 3539.1 million
(38.5%) was due from BPDB to BPC and BOGMC, Tk. 2403.4 million
(26.2%) from the private sector to BPC, BPDB and PBSs and  Tk.
2135.8 million (23.3%) from other Government entities to BPDB and
BOGNC. Regarding accounts receivable by BPC, the Government
introduced a new system from July 1, 1987, under which BPC and
its subsidiaries provide credit for only 45 days and charge
interest at commercial bank rates on billings paid after 30 days.
BPDB is reducing its arrears to BPC and its subsidiaries for
petroleum products by paying at least Tk. 50 million per month
until such amounts are fully paid.   In addition, the Government
will ensure that the gas companies maintain their accounts
receivable at no more than three months of gas sales.
25.       The Government is particularly concerned about BPD8's
accounts receivable, which amounted to Tk. 3469.5 million as of
end-October, 1988 and was equivalent to about 5 months' billings.
The Governwentts intention was that BPDB's accounts receivables



-51-                            ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 11
MInI*y of plonofri
Gveomimn of lb. POpWS Repubb of Baook"es
wm~
D o. ,N ,..                                                     ...... . 
F                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~11
should not exceed 4.5 months by December 31, 1988 and 3.5 months
by June 30. 1989 and thereafter. To bring down accounts
receivable to an acceptable level, the Government has introduced
in November 1988 an incentive scheme to remit interest/surcharge,
to encourage payment of arrears by installments.   It is hoped
that accounts receivables will show improvement if the customers
take advantage of the concession and pay off arrears.   The
Government will also ensure that the accounts receivable of all
other energy sector entities are in conformity with existing
agreement with IDA, failing which the Government will enquire
into the causes for failure and initiate necessary steps to
improve the situation.
New and Renetwable Anergy
26.      The Government has recently set up a basic institutional
framework concerning new and renewable energy.   The Energy and
Industry Division of the Planning Commission has been given
primary responsibility for planning and providing policy
guidance.  The Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources will be
responsible for coordination of project activities in the new and
renewable energy subsector.   Potential  projects  are being
identified under different Government agencies for possible
financing by international donors.
27.       There has been growing evidence  in Bangladesh of
dwindling biomass supplies, on which the majority of the
population depends, and a resulting increase in the substitution
of commercial for traditional fuels.   In this connection,  the
Government intends to request the World Bank to undertake, under
the Joint World Bank/UNDP Energy Sector Management Assistance
Program, an inter-fuel Substitution Study in order to assess
microeconomic and macroeconomic impacts of fuel substitution, and
formulate a least-cost strategy for meeting the growth in
commercial energy demand.   The Government intends to review the
results of this study with IDA upon completion and expects that
it will provide a useful input into the preparation of the Fourth
Five Year Plan.
8 ncere-Y~
(A.I. KEANDK8E)
Air Vice Marshal (Rtd.)
Minister
Ministry of Planning
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh.
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
The World Bank.



DiloY SECTOP DJISTUMWT CRIT
Sbselo_ t*,a   ata Sheet
Deaelomevnt Policty mtelx
Isoues                               Actions Agroed and Tahon                          Condition  of Credit Effectlene
-                                                                                             e______________________  and Tr ech. RIleose
1.  Inveatmnnt  In the power  sub ctor     In February 1907, eoutlanto worn mobi II.d to
boae bee  dictated prS erily by        prepar  long-term least Cost development plens
the Imediate availability of           for g_neration and trn_mission.  During
finaecil resources ond not             negotiations Government  greed to review with
according to the require_mt  of a      IDA, by April 80, 1909, the long-term le  t coat
lontoerm least cost plon.              development plan for g_nration ond trnsmission
snd thereafter Implment the plan tahing Into
ccount IDA. comomnta. Tb. coneultantt' draft
final report wen submitted In October I9M. It
bhn bees reviewed by IDA and found to be
satisfactory.
2. Hood to ensre and promote the           Durlngr negoetino Governmet agred: (1) a *et    Preparation and *ubmiselon to IDA for Its
efficient develop mt of the ge         of priority activitie  for Inclwelon in the ga       review by July $5  190o of a long-term  fset
subeector.                             subsecttore long-term Investment plons; snd (11)      coat developmsnt plan for the go *ubsector
to review with IDA, by April 80 each year, the       would bo a condition of second trench. reloooe 
dsta led oxplorntlon and developmet progroa  for
the next f I scl y  r and tentative progrm for
the following four yrrO. Tho progran for
FY90-94 was rviewed by IDA In Februory 19J9 end
found to be *otifoctory.
3. Absence of a systemtic program to       In December 19t7, In conformity with a Ooerd
ovaluste coal esoure  and              gr_  t tlon condition, conultante we
determine the technical, financial     *ppTolntidfunded by ODA (UK), to carry out a
sad economic feasibility of col        eosiblility study of the BSraphurlo coal
production.                            depo_Ita to determine their technical, economic
and financial viability. During negotiations
Government oareed to revie with IDA the lnterln
report end comple4td study within two months
followiog Its completlen. Tho Interi  report
was reviewed In May 19S8, ond the exploration
reoort In October 198t.
4.  th  investent pion for the energy    During noegtllons Government agreed en a                Satifatoetry lsplaeontation of the PIP for FY69
sector for the Third Flv  Year        priority lnveOtont program  (PIP) foer FYW-FYOO       (moneng that actual expenditure on the total
Plon cannot be Implemented given       whicb could be lmplementd with avallable finan-    PIP ond for each subsector Is et least VS Of
projected financial rsources.          cial resources nd the Implementation cape-            the agred planned expenditure) and *gremmsnt        o w
bilitloe of *eorgy sector entitieo. Further,         on the PIP fotr FYSO-"Y2 would be conditions of     
Government agred to the prepration of PIP* for       second tranche rele so.
FY4991, FY9OOn and FYOI-9O. In July 1900, IDA 
revlewd tho lmplomnetion of the FY8 PIP, 
Which wa satistactry, and sub_equntly
Govornmnt agreed the PIP for fY89-91 which Is
being Implemented.



Reeve                               Actions Agree  oen  Taken                        Cowitleo  of Credt Effectiveese
___    iand Trench. R.l1       -
. T  avera"  price of ps has been         During    .t)tl         orwa            dated        As increeg  of the bverege gee price by  t
below the econmie cost of supply,    progrza    gef   prie  lcr_   to acie, *              Ies6t1  effective July 1, 190, would be o
including * depletion pri um, end    fre tp, e lty  Iteted econmic    condition of second tronche releas.
failed to cpture  e_colc              cot of       y     to prorlvely clos" th
rent meaurd by the difference         g   bet       e p              d that of
beween gee priee and prices of        su btitute fuels; ad  t the s     ties to
substitute petroleuw product.         restructure ge t       riffs to rflect te ecomomic
coa of ospplying diffte nt csmr groups.
Th  vr9 price of ga*o m  incra Wd by 25
effectie July1 190Tas a condition of
,imqAigfdons, and by 15X effectivo July 1, 1961,
r1Iii*ew *verae 1 ncreso for  poer,
fertilI Ir and rslidentiol consumrs.
6    e co _nsle are unable to             During negotiations Governt _ greed that the
operate Inde_pendntly of              marolg on Sao price  receivd by ge cmp anio
Government budget trenfore and to    would be set at * level that would cover their
discharg  their operational           costa, Including dsprecietlon, and allow ech
responeibilitien efficlently.         coepny to cover at lest lO0 of Its annual
Investment proorfm In FY90, 205 In FY01, U0S In
FY02 and 405 In FY9J and theroefter, and that no
gas compeny would declare  dividend until the
target hs bee  achieved.
7. Pet financial losso   of ePC and       Durlng noeotietlon Government agreds (1) that
the flIlure to mobil    reo  re"      the weighted ovorgoo price of petroleu  products
for the Budoet throuoh petroleum      wold not be reduced below *Id-1987 levels; ed
product prices.                       (11) a pricing ftrmul to ensur thot woeigted
averoge domestl petroleuo product prices, net
of distribution, marketing and other hondling
costs, always exceed hbrder pries by at lest
is1.
S. Fallure of slectricity tariffs to      As conditione  of 8nrd ro nt tleon, the              I-pleentation of tariff Incrrese fre  July 1,
reflect ecutely the  conomic          Govoernmnt Incrod th bulk-supply tariff rate    1989 to comply with existing finsncial
coot  f supply *nd 8PDB  solf-        charged by OPM  to P8S trm Th 0.96/kuk to Th         covenents for _O  and P85  and the contind
financing level hes bee too low.      1.14/kWh effective Way 1, 1907, nd increased         implementation of agreed r form  to tariff
B       eo average tariff  et. by 171 effective     structures, Including further reduction  In the
August 1, 1987. Further,  _6's end PB0              sixes of the subsidized blocks to retdenttal
tariff structures were eford  ffective              consumers, would be conditlons of scond
Augut 1, 1067 to better reflect the economic        tranche rl.   *
costa of supplying different consumer groups.
9. InedequaO  prformanc of aO.            Consultant., finaned by OOA (UX), have corried       Implemntation of the hey aO p  In the dated
out an institutional study of OPD  buosd on         action program to reform EOM  *04ud be a
terms of reference agreed with IDA, ADO, and        condition of second trench, releas.
0DA. Ouring negotiation. Govrnmnt agred to
reorm OM  based on the consu4tnto  recomesm-
datlons, a agreed with IDA, ADO nd ODA. in
November 10  Cabinet approved the rorgpnl_
tation of SOM, including establish mnt of Obake
Electricity Supply Authority as a nw dis*tri-
bution entity offective July 1, 1990.



Zeema                              ACtima Agreed eNd Tahoe                        Coiditio moef Credit ffectlvemaa
Ws Tre h_      1 Ibl_.
10. _mmmi  e l... to u11s. mgprP        um   m..sta _we  mabllla I.reolr lm                laductic  of No" peta  1o0se to so em
_ I     fowl"$ totemtiellow        to  eel. the ea         of.. 111111.o teehia_el NW  euseime b_1_  1 : 14 bee *odition of oseamd
or   _ -_e~ NW am%* of reawrow.    a 0 balwteM e      lesse  ad to re_ammad          treech. release.
_progrle htoe   tce r     ee Icome.     the
p  Ng o maetue i t Fabisep aIM  cith
egrematof ZP A S M   NW A. The Initial
i.plmmtt7e  J m teproWram redea gin
lewrneIre 461.  otear is~to so3 daring,
_       _mooeeor am  to _.oritp with a o L
inIsml!o ceedltlen.
used tb atrwams i. the1-U.Mbe 16.comautAtawe ebIliedto                                     Further Implementtion of major VW oub trOw _
orumeiti.m of am  ad Its             prp * r_ aergf e tlem stupof NW  ma it.,    reforee, Incleding leg a  eteblehmuntof am
auhedilaie..                         Subsidlarie. ThFer final repor am  OAhitted       epee     cempse  ad apint* en o hof
la April  16. Durtin  aegatiatima O      nvermst  0600, amid be a cdiltlom of second trnch.
_gred a dae  NW muttorable ectia Progr_           rot .
for th  e gao uhacor' reergnisetlo. baoed em
the orgalustieel sthly's recemnd"loo..
Cebim ot pproved the re.rgauiaetm in JOlY
am. In c.f,mity with a e                 left
o"il9ta  Om  "a mtaboldism    S *widildT
666Ktomn  xma  aoll.iod
53. ceIV*o ecemat roelevabl*oef         During nagetietema bioronmat agreed a dated       Ieductiom of smog aoemat receiveble to the
_eear    m   enties and              "cties peramto rdc NM* *ce_nta                   equIvalent of 4.0 ameth.' blIlg  amid he          UW
porticelO.|y of am.                  re"Swobte-to tm oqpivalumt et 4.5 month'           coaditite of cedit offectvema. Duductie of
pep  billIngs before 3.erdnrmmtetiee end the ali  PU11 acoen'te relvbl-o too 8.5 Meatha'
other e_argp eeeF  _1IT45~Td he inbtilling togather with tiplemetetoesof
_11ce with acceunte receiveblo egremante.    errangmante Ieti teor to SPA for ib illn
a ecceante r_mi lo 1ware redud f_ rem 0.4     gIv bf _cd r             l a  writig df
maths' billinp  i a 11   ? to 4.1    t.'          boetud oempoln   of  il1
billings in Deb  163. 1_S.'. receveble             hmt                  itim with account_
Uwe reda to *   t' pa * We  min Dsmbw             rg                   , maid be eooditle of
15. Furth , oilcm  FM   C No bhe                    rcd t        ree.
lpimmating eatlefectoerly *a _a  petm for the
celletlee of bills for dalvolee of petroleum
-to
18. M1onac  ap11i., em whichb Oh         avormA  Negroed that eO _teor-feel
majority of th  poplloe              sebatiteiem otud  to  _e   bet the micro an
dapand, Ore dwindling, with a                     IMP"en   " ot wO the   dhtitlet
Utltg lcre In th                           tlol for tditoal enry maid be
aehetitutiem of ceinerciel for       undere  Under the J t011 World _ekAW  WRAP
traditioml feel.                      r_.
w 
011



(to SS(. 3hL1O0)
PIeacv IstrnNSmOP     - Ptt utCTw
0JttIStIPl *#tZ....................... ....               v    .OF  ....IIlLUA "P so                                          FT 90                FT
~~~~~~                                                                       ;.   ....     ................    ...................    .......   ......      ................  rtt o!wtt.J.,t ,,,n.,, ,,,f, 
_A     UCIIPIC*AII                                    LocalW. loa    re  let t tea     . 14 Lt oal  tod r . lotat  Local  for". toetal  tot  Forgo. Tetlt  Lelt  twp. total
...........................                  .........................................  ...... .............................................................................................................
I =a tuMi   1* 9- a"S-go 5t40 *3 12Xt5  3 21132 1451   7   a    99*02202                                                                            0   0   0  7t4 2S 49
?M USPM"it -6 a                                    9099075*951            63    4   11579 27            62    226 29          10    I5O    no       0       0      a    132    51    5101
S3 *_   il *                                     *i,ts  9 192  IM    It    Sit    III    32S   444      97    40      w  t200    Soo              250            450    54?   *190   13
I   Om_"A    ft - a                               *912-95   56    1540   2123             ist    DI 91 *24    293       r 4  *00    420    520 7,0o    no    6          54  ,          5
C*OF t-Sltatmid)                                  19*               M     U        13     94    *W0      4     29      24     20      a     29      10      S     is    54      54      0
M *      Su3lot  9C91111-92   519   1424   *92                                  29       0     29     37    16     22       40    26    ie      tao    460    520    2*7    75   US
7    1011om I . A                                *905.6or1lye25                   9       I' *7 201      5      4      9       *      0      0      0       0      0      5      4      9
a AM  ta  I                                      *I95901553220716                   0   0   0   a   0   *   0   0   022076096075166us
...........................................40        ........ ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... .....
t4t tloft                                                                                                     1l       meJ la            18   mt  tilFJt  44s  Om "  tt  ittN  
(IN U. inn
1110111 .nmwwm . moo uuMINNIE
.......................... .....                          am  cm   t       go. ISO,& AZtn "a        w nZnXto 
Iwo........................... ................... ................... ................... ................... ...................
Z    _   zt  __*   "   inei"**  ~~~~~~=t . wat ftrp    low   La"    fo    Sam    LO               ftii    *n0   Xtotl we   To tal in           fagl  *oe    Law    IOWA. lo
a   WGWW fit" F"Mbff  AM                          "W m           a mi          63W    1       *9 4?5    so      so0       t       9 0        .     r      9*          twa tw is         a
t~~~~~~~~~ lol  ta. toa                                            d  tap   lid  la- 1-2st  Atap. lid  l#9a   ttpO lab    La    t2os  lai   *20   t"  naid Ss
*   saw .ast s    laro   Sm   otn.               *909a  )  "W"W 2    S *296        a    93      6r5    as    in0    M 3       10     32    Mo       0      S       S    is    US    in
2eo 1t inr id            m                  *956993                  75499tgr s    36    07       392 tOS    22S  0             01 2S  S 20  2  t9    122  2  S S69tO
46    =6111c   p~eaidroSsl=ra111*0990   US    53    GU5                            ye    40    4?        5     45      W      10     so     de       a      0      0     15      a     ISO
b.attg allla aSgs tl W&   "Woo  M                                       as 2444 t it tt      243    6   to   S   20  20  40    0    0    0   3    U    U0
U ilit aa*6d  4.. oGn s  tO                       1111-92   423n  2414   3554  lt               329    II0    215    M       i2n    m      42       UO   40    s50         7# 91t3
?lsraIh     woh GM prnhl. *M    elect            19931-92   M6   *39    2*16      49      so     a      40     d0    US       20     so     W0     30      so     a      910    us    M3
n    94w. otf    but go feld (s. 1t               tJ-90i99         116 20D          ?      0 t?          o      3t     40     20     20     40       0      0      0     30      so0    a
9   "v. o  ltat. GM  field on. 9 a*U)             "WOO-  2*4    M5    90.    15*    448         S 5     so    we U Sao        43    209    M5        0      0      0     45    so      312
Itl   lb        Too "Me GMelatr*kao  nt jaet* "W"    24              99543         20       0     20      5      O      t20     6     t6    22       r      t2     t9    tO      lt     St
IIcmPeMe                                           11110-1    in    SO522 S    *5   *4      0     *4      2     40     47       I     s5     52      2    S       S 51    4 5          M54
a 26a     1 trlsl   ,tt_scale L        plow       *011-91  0t 9 24          M95      1      5     *4     10     30     40      is     35     44    It    54        G0     33   19   132
is    btZ mh(M.                                   *3 ts        1 D  Pn   tW-904             *      4     20     20     40      20     24     44      0      0       0     40     44    m6
16   Ol Al O    boartion  1FV)         901-92  *1*4   2445   309    *15    M8    460    15    220    M3    127    242    349    U*    204    404    ME    No5  1*
*   goav. of 11 tSort so  ild (U. t               1911S-4019    I   200  3*1        I?      0     I?      5     ye      is      0      0      0      0       0      0      5     16      15
16 2  a at So Ostr    i Grstr oJatw tF    1190,-90    92             34    *28      5       0      5 o          to      is      6     1*    so       s      *2     19     f8     33      Si
I?   I     l0ragoom sttrilmoion Project          1091*-92  IM3   199    322        5       0      5     So    250    240      30    250    260    200    M6    SOD    840   I10   1360
1a6   Smlitrntlea 5.pOcaus-nofft3                  196090   355    364   759    864   27*    45          72    *00    172      97     79    *74      0      0       0    to9    fit    34
*9   soancary CawerStan punt as IIIL              1900-9f  501    854   *356         7      0      7      4     30     54      2*     54     16    *60    300    400    IRS    316   5*t
20  tlt Stwup. Irans. UalDstaributionPlmt  *96990   *2S    *53    210               0       0      0     Is     30     45      20     s0     70     90      so   *10    *25    me0   265
ZS  Gow.ot CoaItPstItr.10isr. of at,ralsas*1991-92   16S    540    70               0       0      a      0      0       0     *0     40     so    *55   5so    655    *45    540    70
so* l*0*                              67M   14090  229    2240   306   s218    633   *640   2243    hS   leU   2406    940   24NO   3406   2330   sr2t  6059
cm  total                             S712  93540  SOMS2  1001? 24422  34439   2655   ?52 t  *036    476   6411  ntn7    SA4  11160    103  t31t5  27096  401
Ofts: as lb& Projact Pt,o*em tot 8OS'. Petrolt   telnhnial Oevelopmt project is being cleared witt   the PIC.
be) Wtgtlve ur1vs  on the spoil oer colst  seunlate projects _r  cost elovstrs, we projected to wcsw.
3S5SUSWflSflSUS-fltsCt *    ls t3**sfl~t5fls=CC2..SS............ n: l .tflflWsllm.zt......                                           *t.     S      t*tUSSSf *#*StC3SSRfl8SWR*S:
Os.t



(in TX. NittiON).
Mae stcloil                                                                                                                      1w .... ;. ;;
........................                                    !r:.IILL JW 1988           VT so                fv 90               FT 91           At t 9
...............      "O't ..     ...................    ...................    ...................  ..................
DEvatopwas mm                                  totot Locat         f at Local Foron. Total Local FOM. TOW    LOCOI FOrOn. Total LW41 fWV- tOtOt
.......................        ....................                      .................................................................  ........................
Tlk.pls wan.vas U4 JZXISO M)    19M."  lOff  4381  S4$I  IOSZ  4363  S05    10    13    n                SS     0    SS       0      0     0    0       10    63
2          1 Sydro PIS ton.fts."SQ1150 NW)  fW-90  660  2418  30?   40   2293  2776   160   125   M                   Is     0     Is      a     0      0    Its   la$   m
I  amew  tkffftt P111 EXIT1.100 4010 M)       1990-91 1430  ZW    3011   M    23W   3139   240           0   240   2so       0   250   220       0   220   710        o   'no
4  SidArpa) Gm turbiro (SX33M)                1969-90  38S  ISS4  1938   23S   USA,  1686   120   100   2n            30     0    30       0     0      0    ISO   lot   ISO
S  AshkWMJ lbwmt Pow  Stn. latn. 05050 N01910-90  M    2250  3023   36?  2229  2S75   120    22   142   2SO                  0   250       0     0      8    370    22   392
6  cram PIOlp   emmatiom" M)                  1940-90  29?  1023  IM        2?I  1023  1243              0            30     0    30       0     0      0     14      0    74
?  NOWN am Turbim(20 IIM)                     190-90   112   412   S24    72   3SS   430    3t    SS    97            a      0      a      0     0      a    40    SS    Os
8  4bornal thwmt PIS Extn. 115010 NM)         1902-"  Z"S   sm    56M         S    124   129    40   400   "O    tOO   SOO   600   $50   680  1030   4"   ISO   2070
9  $Abet C.C.461 60 MIST-30 OW)               "92-"   ?22  1920  2642         0      0      0     1      1      2    30   190   220   150   850  tOOO   181  1041  1222
to  onowbwi G.T.flw MM)                        "91-92  3U   1121  IS04         0     0      0      2      a      2    120   620   740   ISO   49?   64?   2n   ITT?  1309
"   Cbitt , , I ml PIS (112100M)              M-94 2S49  ZW    $218           0      a     0      0      0      0    50   150   200   200   S30   nO   2SO   680   M
12  Gbwa"t tbwmt P/S Extn. 06(210 M)           1994-95 180   3211?  SM         0     0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0    40   160   200    40   160   200
13  neetwOW  lkwml Pill Pkwo lt?9300NW)    1994-93 6803  10570  I?Sn           0      0     0      0      0      0    so    SO   100   100   200   SW    ISO   M           4M
I   ftripur Ccabined Cycl* 15.1.09 M)          1992-"   S16  1110  1626        0      0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0     10    to    20    10    10    20
IS  **"di-SGidpw-IhskwgM  132 ILV              1989-90  130   MY   4S?    62          s    64    14   129   142    S4   196   2so           0     0      0    68   1124   "2
16  4aptaf-MarstAs, 132 kV                     1909-90   US   361   S46   16S   361   S26    n            a    n       0      0      0      0     0      0    20       0    20
I?  Upprod.loot-10"t lnteften. to 230 kV       190-90  119   TOS   a"         98   166   2"       60   4"    S44    21    S4    is          a     0      0    III   536   6%9
1:  Aupmastion of Existing grid SIS            t9W-90  346   442   78?   I??   19?   31`3    20   It?   19?   148    68   21?               0     0      0    169   245   414
1   Daftmi-Cox ftm  132 Irv                    t989-90  243   22?   471    32         0    32      a   200   206   m         27   231       0     0      0   211   22?   439
20           - sbwnol 230 kv                   1989-90  ift   269   4"    139   256   3%           2     13    Is    33       0    33       0     0      0    3S    Is    46
21  8:wM*r4b2..r-Cb.1.xk 13Z kV                1989-90   S3   188   241        a      3    il      a    96   I%        ST    90   127       0     0      0    45   tss   230         LA
22  0. ml --fort    Nwisal 132 kV              1999-90  101   2S2   31A        r      3    11    12   IS2    W        62    91   179        0     0      0    94   249   363
laniffI132 kV                1989-90  I"       0    M        6     0      6     30      0    30   108       0    108     0      a      0    ise     0    138
24  AdmWI-CorAtte 230 kV                       t991_92  SS2   vn   isn        13      0     13    32   AN    432   100   4M    SW    ZW    ISO   S"    332   "O   t2W
2S  Ileari fromMosion Lines 132 kV             1991-92  762   902  IM         26    20    46    40   200   240   ISO   m           4"    ISO   350   SOO   340   a"   1190
26  4horsul-Sidifir") 230 kV                   M-92  SiS  1016  IS30           0      0     0      0      0      0    30   100   130   2m    SW    roo   730   600   L"
2?  aMrpw-amitMi 132 kV                        IM-93  101   163   264          0      0     0      0      0      0     2    10    12        a    32    40    10    42    S2
28  bd. ant-Vat tncorcovmtw 230 kV             IM-94 uw    MD  3soo            0      0     0      0      0      0    32    95   12?    80   M         36S   112   300   492
29  Cmille-Chittemm 2W kV                      1992-93  396   S97   "S         0      0     0      a      0      0     0      0      0    30   120   ISO    30   120   ISO
30  Alshimpenj - Jastpur 132 kV                1992-91   M     126   2S2       0     0      0      0      a      0     0      0      0      s    20    2s       s    20    25
31  ormter 9640 obw    II                      1990-91 1337  242?  3764   619  1174  IOSS   136   680   816   200   573   M               322     0   322   6SB  1255  1911
32  ~ or CbittspM Phow  II                     IM-91  69?  1710  2"?   356  1096   USS    40   300   340   3M    250   SSO   222    62   284   S62   612  104
53  U Tom Distr. Schome                        1991-92  IISS  tZ48  2406   It?   12?   244    "    250   314   20    300   SOO   300   4M    100   S"    9SO  ISU
34  14    -_ tow Oistr.                        1991-92  Sol   se?  1394    23        2    2S    29   250   279    ?O   ISO   420   120   250   3M    M               aso  1069
is  Pow$ Distry Project  fast to" Phne 11  1991-92 MY   310  2"?   61`1  150   921   IN                  60   239   230   100   130   300   100   400   70    260   969
36  Pam  Clatt. Project  Wst low Phow 11  1991-92  1570   496  2068   ?9?   ISO   968   179   188   366   230   100   330   "D   loo   4M    109   SW   1096
ST  Wftter Sbfts Omw III                       1906-95 3292  4?"   9036        0     0      0     39     A    113    SO   150   200   100   203   300   169   424   613
is  S6 secandwy low vistc.                     1994-913 1794  IS91  sses       0     0      0      1      0      1    to    so    60    SO   2m    2so    61   2SO   311
39  greater Wwtne Pbno It                      1904-95  are  10?3  1950       0      a      0      0      0     0    Is    So    65    60   2is   US    is   WS   340
40  Cromer itojsloAi Pbm    II                 IM-94  SIB   633   ISSO         0     0      0      0      0     a     is    so    6S    60   215   zrs    15   26S   3447
41  9 Sftwdery lwn Diott. Schow                1994-9S  739   6A   1414        0      0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0    20    30    SO    20    SO    so
42  Systm Loss Mod. gdww                       1991-92  4"    92S  141S    65    43   106    80   200   2SO    80   2"    330   100   M                3SO   260   IM    960
43  Pos mm Pow  omiap. SCbew                   1990-91   6?   t9S   262        1      0     1      8    se            so   100   ISO        ?    se    65    6s   19?   261
"   Pr*-Striened ftle Ofg,(Aricha)             1988-69  121    62   183    el    so   131    40    12    52            0      0      a      0     0      0    40    12    S?
45  WM  Coffputerisation Program               1989-90   43    56              I      3     4     12    St    63    32        0    32       0     0      0    44    Si    96
46  Nwdo o of Central tmd " Mr.                1991-92  191   372   $63        0      0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0    20   100   120    20   too   IN
4?  fthob. of Pt$ am from. system              1994-95  686  1600  2296        0      0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0    30   M       3SO    30   sm    ISO
...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ......
SUB folAt                         4   3        IOMO3  66-V  18032 247"   1921  4671  "95  34SI  SM               BUT  M"   60M  IO=         91?6  1682? 26003



-57-
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 3
BANGLADESH
PRIORITY INVE TMENT PROGRAM
FINANCING PIAN
(TX. MILLION)
POWER SECTOR                FY 89                 FY 90                  FY 91         TOTAL FOR FYS 89/90/91
__...*............  ..................... ........................................... .... _.... ...... ...... ........ .............
L      F       T      L       F      T       L      F       T      L       F        T
BPOS                 1821    673   6495   3451   5270   8721   3904   6884  10788   9176   16827  26003
Fin.Plan.: GOB/SF   1821                    3451                  3904                   9176
Donors           4673                   5270                  6884                   16827
REB                   401   1245   1646    550   1498   2048    700   1808   2508   1651    4550   6201
fSn.Ptan.: C00/SF    401                     550                   700                   1651
Donors           1245                   1498                  1808                    4550
NATURAL RES. SECTOR
SOWIC/BPC             633   1610   2243    765   1643   2408    940   2468   3408   2338    5721   8059
Fin.Ptan.: GO8/SF    633                     765                   940                   2338
Donors           1610                   1643                  2468                    5721
33333s  333333 3333             3 8333       333-  *3 =33 3    33===        ====== 3=3333
TOTAL INVESTMENT    2855   7528  10383   4766   8411  13177   5544  11160  16703  13165   27098  40263
3==33= 333333 I=3333  3a3333  33333  a3=_-=a   3333333=3== ===5:S 2========-= 33    =====
TOTAL INVESTMENT (PIP) IN US S EQUVALENT a Tk.32.925 = US S 1                             400      823   1223
SLMYARY FINANCING PLAN
Fin.Plan.: GOB/SF   2855                    4766                  5544                  13165
Donors           7528                  8411                  11160                   27098
In US S Eq.            87    229             145    255            168    339             400     823   1223
33333333333333333333333333333338333333333333- -- -333333332333333333333C33333333333333                  =_==



