                                  Documentof
                               The World Bank



                                                   ReportNo.: 29379




                                BANGLADESH

            PROJECTPERFORMANCEREASSESSMENTREPORT

                   ENERGYSECTORADJUSTMENT CREDIT

                               (CREDIT 1999-BD)



                                 June 21,2004




Sector and ThematicEvaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit = TakaTk)

1987              US$1.oo          Tk 30.8
1992              US$l.OO          Tk 39.0
1997              US$l.OO          Tk 43.9
2002              US$l.OO          Tk 57.9



Abbreviations and Acronyms

BPDB            BangladeshPower Development Board
CNG             Compressednaturalgas
DESA           DhakaElectricity Supply Authority
DESCO          DhakaElectricity Supply Company
ESAC           Energy Sector AdjustmentCredit
GIDP            Gas Infrastructuredevelopment Project
GOB            Government ofBangladesh
GTCL           Gas Transmission Company Limited
IOC            InternationalOil Company
LPG            LiquifiedPetroleum Gas
MCF            Thousandcubic feet
MEMR           Ministry ofEnergy andMineralResources
MTR            Mid-termreview
oc             OperatingCompanies
PB             Petrobangla
REB            RuralElectrificationBoard
PPAR           ProjectPerformance Assessment Report
PSC            ProductionSharingContract
SGDP           SecondGas development Project
TA             TechnicalAssistance
TCF            Trillion Cubic Feet.



Fiscal Year

Government: July 1-June 30




Director-General,OperationsEvaluation                : Mr.Gregory K.Ingram
Director, OperationsEvaluationDepartment             : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector andThematic Evaluation               : Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                         : Mr.Fernando Manibog

                                                              i



   OED Mission:Enhancing developmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independencein evaluation.


 About this Report
       The OperationsEvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activities of the World Bank for two
 purposes:first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank'sself-evaluation process and to verify that the Banks work is
 producingthe expected results,and second, to help develop improveddirections,policies, and proceduresthrough
 the disseminationof lessons drawn from experience.As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percentof
 the Bank's lendingoperations. In selectingoperationsfor assessment,preferenceis given to those that are
 innovative,large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or countryevaluations;those for which
 Executive Directors or Bank managementhave requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
 importantlessons. The projects,topics, and analyticalapproaches selectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluation
 studies.
      A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
 OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

 About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
 sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
 http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance ofobjecfives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Susfainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstifufional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements andlor (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                                   ...
                                                                                   111



 Contents


 PrincipalRatings             ...............................................................................................................                    v

 Preface..............................................................................................................................vu                          ..

 Summary    ...........................................................................................................................                          ix

 1 IntroductionandBackground
  .                                                               ....................................................................................            1

        Sector Issues and Institutional Structure Before the ESAC.....................................                                                            1
        Previous and SubsequentBank Lendingfor Energy ...............................................                                                             2
         Objectives and Design of the ESAC ........................................................................                                               3
 2.  ImplementationandPerformancethrough 1992                                                              .....................................................  5

3 Performancesince 1992
  .                                                ...............................................................................................                7

        Private Sector Participation in Energy ...................................................................                                                7
        Private Sector Investment in Gas............................................................................                                              8
        Investment Planning and Resource Development...................................................                                                           9
        Energy Pricing.......................................................................................................                                   10
                    Gas Pricing and Finances                                ..........................................................................          11
                    Electricity Pricing and Financial Performance..........................................                                                     12
InstitutionalPerformance                        ...............................................................................................                 13

        Institutional Issues in the Gas Sector ....................................................................                                             13
        Institutional Issues in the Power Sector ................................................................                                               14
4.  Outcomeand Assessment                             ..........................................................................................                15

        Outcome.................................................................................................................                                15
        Sustainability .........................................................................................................                                16
        Institutional DevelopmentImpact .........................................................................                                               16
        Bank Performance .................................................................................................                                      17
        Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................                                         17
Conclusions    .......................................................................................................................                          17

5 LessonsLearned
 .                                 ........................................................................................................                     18


This reportwas preparedby SunilMathrani(Consultant). under the supervisionofFernando Manibog
(Task Manager)
support.        .The      reportwas edited by William B Hurlbut Rose Gachina providedadministrative
                                                                                  .               .

                                                            iv


Annex A BasicData Sheets
         .                          ............................................................................................       19

Annex B BorrowerComments
         .                                 ......................................................................................      21

Annex C Key Indicators
         .                     .................................................................................................       35

Annex D ElectricityTariffs (BangladeshPowerDevtBoardmhakaElectric Supply
         .
  Authority) ...................................................................................................................       37
Annex E Bangladesh.IDA lendingfor energy. 1980-1995
         .                                                                                    ........................................ 39


Tables

Table 1:BangladeshAverage Gas Prices
Table 2: Comparative Performance Ratings......................................................................
                                                       ..........................................................................      11
                                                                                                                                       17

                                                   V



Principal Ratings
                        ICR*                  PPAR               Re-assessment
Outcome              Satisfactory       Barely Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory
SustainabiIity        Uncertain              Uncertain                Unlikely
Institutional          Partial                Partial                Negligible
Development
Impact
Bank                  Not rated              Not rated            Unsatisfactory
Performance
Borrower              Not rated              Not rated            Unsatisfactory
Performance   ___
                                  ~~      ~~~     ~
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
the Bank.


                                                vii


Preface

        This is a Project Performance ReassessmentReportfor the BangladeshEnergy
Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1999). The project was approved by the Board for a credit
o f SDR 137 million on April 11, 1989, and closed, fully disbursed, inJuly 1990.

        A Project CompletionReport (Report no. 10700) was producedby the South Asia
Region inJune 1992 and the Operations EvaluationDepartment (OED) prepared a
Project Performance Audit Report (Report no. 12113) on this operation inJune 1993. The
current reassessmenti s part o f a series o f pilot studies being undertaken by OED to test
whether such reassessmentsprovide sufficient newinsightstojustify makingthema
routine part o f OED's work.

        The specific purpose of this PPRR is to evaluate energy sector performance in
policy areas covered by the adjustment credit during the past decade, and thus to gauge
the durability ofreforms undertaken as part ofthe operation. The reassessmentalso seeks
to validate the performance ratings established by the previous performance assessment
report.

        This report is basedon the previous PPAR as well as on the President's Report
(Report no. P-4549), dated March 22,1989, project files, and discussions with Bank staff.
An OED missionvisitedBangladeshinDecember 2003 to discuss the effectiveness of
the Bank's assistancewiththe government andthe energy sector enterprises. The
collaboration and assistance o f all their officials are gratefully acknowledged.

        The missionalso carried out a Project Performance Assessment oftwo gas
projects, which will be issued concurrently as a separate report, containing
complementary information on the performance o f the Bangladeshi gas sector.

        Following standard OED procedures, the draft o fthis report was sent to the
borrower for comments before finalization. The comments received are includedas
Annex B to this report.


                                            ix


 Summary

         The Energy Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC) was the first andonly quick-
 disbursingSECAL inthe Bangladeshenergy sector. The objectiveofthe ESAC was to
 assist the governmentinextendingandrefining its energy policyandto strengthen
 energy sector institutions. The major outcomes from the ESACwere expectedto be (i)
 morerationalpatternsofenergy demand; (ii) improvedinvestment planning; (iii)
 improvedfinancial viability for energy sector entities; (iv) mobilizationofadditional
 resourcesfor the budget; and(v) removalofinstitutionalconstraints.

         The ESAC sought to bringabout policyimprovementsinthe areas ofinvestment
 planning, energy pricing and institutional performance of the main energy sector
 entities. The ESAC conditionalitieswere grouped aroundthese three subjects, which are
 the focus ofthis reassessmentreport.These topicshaveremainedhighly relevant
 throughoutthe past 15 years since the ESAC was approvedin 1989.

         The 1993 PPARconcludedthat investmentplanningsaw only modest
 improvementas a resultofthe ESAC, butthat there was goodprogress inenergypricing.
 Onthe other hand, institutionalreforms were only very partiallyinplace whenthe second
 tranche was released.

         This reassessmentofthe long-termoutcome ofthe ESACfoundthat there has not
beena significant improvementinenergy sector planningover the decade since the end
 ofESAC.The Bangladeshenergy sector has numerous examples of shortcomings in
planning,which havebeencompoundedby insufficient or uncoordinatedanddelayed
investmentsbythe major public sector energyproducers, leadingto a suboptimaland
wastefuluse of scarce resources.

         Improvements inthe real levelof gas pricesduringthe ESACperiodwere not
sustained.The almost five-year freeze ingas pricesfrom early 1994to late 1998 eroded
their realvalue by a quarter.However,priceshave climbedsharply since, to wipe out the
declines of the mid-1990s.No actionwas takenduringthe ESAC or subsequently to alter
relative gas prices inorderto reduce the extent of subsidies to the power andfertilizer
sectors or to domestic users of gas.

         The modestreal increases inelectricity tariffs andimprovementsinthe tariff
structure duringthe ESACperiodwere effectivelyreversedbecause tariff levels
remainedfrozen for five years. Financialcovenants with IDA were not met.Despiterapid
annual sales growth, the two maingovernment-ownedpower utilities operatedat a loss
throughthe 1990s.However, since 2000 there are signs ofimprovement incommercial
performance:totalpower sector energy losses havebeenbrought downinthe lastthree
years from 35 percent ofgenerationto about 30 percenttoday.

        Reorganization of the gas sector as envisagedunder ESAC (as well inpreceding
andsubsequent IDA gas projects), has never beenfully implemented.Local vested
interestspreventedthe merger o fthe two gas producingcompanies into one. A
transmissioncompany was set up in 1993,but still does not own all the high-pressuregas

                                                X



pipelinesinBangladesh. The only departure from an entirely state-run gas sector, albeit
an important exception, has beenthe involvement o f international companies in
exploration and gas production. The Bank's gas projects have had little impact on the
institutional development o f the state-owned sector entities inBangladesh.

         As part ofthe ESAC institutionalreformsfor the power sector,the Bangladesh
Power DevelopmentBoard (BPDB) was split and the DhakaElectricity SupplyAuthority
(DESA)was set up. This was inno sense a solutionto the deep-seatedproblem ofpoor
corporate governance and weak management inthe power distribution business.In
essence, part of the commercial and operational problems that had afflicted BPDB prior
to the creation o f DESA had simply beenhivedoff to the new entity, which had not been
given the authority, the incentives or the meansof solving them. The high level o f illegal
connections and unrecorded consumption, combined with poor revenuecollection were
(and still are) the achilles heel of the entire power sector.

         This reassessmentreport concludes that the expected benefits from the ESAC did
not materialize to any significant extent inthe post-ESAC period. The ESAC's overall
outcome i s rated as unsatisfactory.Overall, ESAC's institutional development impact is
rated as negligibleand sustainability is assessed to be unlikely.Both Bank and Borrower
performance are rated as unsatisfactory. Compared to the 1993 PPAR, all these ratings
are downgrades.

        Eventhoughprivate sector development was not atheme ofthe ESAC, it is
important to record the economic benefits to the country from the big expansion ingas
and power production by private enterprises. The Bank played both a catalytic as well as
direct enabling role inbringing this impressiveinflow o f foreign direct investment (US$
1.5-2 billion) to the Bangladeshi energy sector, which, taken as a whole, is inmuchbetter
shape than a decade ago, despite major unresolved problems inits parastatal entities.
Shortages have beengreatly reduced, access to electricity has increased substantially in
rural areas and the private sector plays an important and growing role inboth gas and
electricity production.

   The main lessons that can be drawn from this reassessmento fthe ESAC are:

        SECALs are a poor choice o f lending instrument for long-gestation institutional
        reforms inthe energy sector because o fthe budgetaryhalanceo f payments
        imperatives to disburse funds quickly and the difficulty of obtaining ownership by
        implementing agencies o f reforms inthe absence o f any targeted funding to them;

   0   Creating new entities i s not a solution to the deep-seated problems o f corporate
       governance and managerial weakness that plague the energy sector; and

                                      xi


0The Bank should not pushfor the creation ofnewentities unless it is willing to
  commit to assisting such bodies as are born out of Bank-financed reforms.




                                                             Gregory K. Ingram
                                                             Director-General
                                                             Operations Evaluation


                                                       1


 1.      Introductionand Background

 1.      The Energy Sector AdjustmentCredit (ESAC) was one ofthree fast-disbursing
 operations inIDA'Slending program for Bangladesh during the late 1980s, and was the
 first and only SECAL the Bank financed for the country's energy sector. Each of these
three operations was conceived to provide a comprehensive, long-term framework for
policy actions -a sectoral "umbrella" under which specific investmentprojects would
be identifiedand financed. The proceeds ofthese operations were expected to be used
primarily for general imports and not be allocated to particular sector entities because in
the late 1980s Bangladesh was still inneedo f substantial annual balance ofpayments
support inthe form o f non-project aid'. However, the SECAL instrumentprovedto be
unpopular with the government, which was accustomed to receiving balance o f payments
support without having to meet difficult conditions.

2.       The ESAC was approved bythe Boardfor a credit of SDR 137 million inApril
 1989 and fully disbursed and closed by July 1990. The South Asia Region issued a
project completion report inJune 1992 and an OED performance audit mission visited
Bangladesh shortly thereafter. The performance audit report was publishedinJune 1993.
The decadethat has elapsedsince thenprovides a long intervalto (i)                   reassess the
contribution o f the ESAC to energy sector development, (ii)             evaluate performance in
ESAC policy areas since 1993, and (iii) the validity o f the performance ratings
                                                 gauge
established by the 1993 OED performance audit.

Sector Issues and InstitutionalStructure Before the ESAC

3.       At the time ofthe ESAC identification(1986),overall investmentprograms ofthe
various energy parastatals were neither optimal nor integrated into sectoral investment
programs that could be implementedwith available resources. Progress inhaving energy
prices reflect economic costs of supply hadbeenslow and uneven. Severe institutional
weaknesses remained and further improvement inthe performance o f sector entities was
critical for the sector's efficient development and operation.

4.       Prior to 1991,the Bangladesh Power DevelopmentBoard (BPDB) was
responsible for electricity generation, transmission and distributionthroughout
Bangladesh, except inthose rural areas underthe Rural Electrification Board (REB)'.
From 1992 onwards, responsibility for electricity distributioninthe Greater Dhaka area
was transferred to a new entity, the Dhaka Electricity Supply Authority (DESA), as part
o fthe ESAC program (para. 21). Further steps inthe unbundlingo f the sector took place
inthe late 1 9 9 0 withthe creation ofthe Power GridCorporationofBangladeshto
                      ~ ~




1. Between 1972,when Bangladesh becamea member o fthe Bank, and 1989,when the ESAC was
approved, a third o ftotal lending (indollar terms) had been inthe form o f support for general imports.
2. In 1990 REB served about 30% o f all electricity consumers inBangladesh, but accounted for only about
10% of total electricity sales nationwide.

                                                      2


 operate the transmission system, and splittingo f distribution operations inthe Dhaka area
bythe setting up ofthe DhakaElectricity Supply Company3.

 5.       The major causes ofpoor performance by the BPDB inthe midlate 1980swere
the unclear definition o f responsibilities o f the chairman and boardmembers, who were
also BPDB's top management, an excessive centralization o f responsibilities, particularly
inthe distributionfunction, and government interferenceinday-to-day matters. Other
causes were instability intop management, the lack o f an appropriate incentive system
for staff, and considerable overstaffing, particularly indistribution.

6.       Petrobangla (PB) i s responsible for the explorationand development o f
Bangladesh's oil, gas and mineral resources. Ithas beena statutory body o f the
government since 1985, operating under the purview of the Ministryo f Energy and
Mineral Resources. Itholds the shares o f all the state-owned companies dealing inoil,
gas and mineral explorationand development (now nine innumber for gas, plus two for
solid minerals) on the Government's behalf. Prior to the ESAC, the PB Group consisted
o fthree productioncompanies4,(one o f which also transmitted and distributedgas) and
two transmission and distribution companiess.An explorationcompany and natural gas
liquidscompany were set up inthe late 1980sand a gas transmission company inthe
early 1990s.

7.       The fragmented and overlapping structure ofthe Petrobangla operating companies
and their unsatisfactory collectiveperformance called for a realignment o f the various
entities involved inthe sector, the streamlining o f their responsibilities, and consolidation
and strengthening o f available expertise inplanningand operations. A sweeping
institutional reform o f the sector had initially beenagreed inthe course o f appraising the
Second Gas Project in 1984 and was then incorporated inthe conditionality for the
ESAC.

Previousand SubsequentBank Lendingfor Energy

8.       Before the ESAC, IDA hadprovided 10 credits for energyprojects amounting to
about US$600 million (see Annex E ). These projects represented 19percent o f IDA
resources committedto Bangladesh inthe period 1979-88.Lending inthe energy sectors
had beendesigned to expand the use o f natural gas as a substitute for imported oil,
rationalize the country's supply of petroleumproducts, promote conservation and more
efficient energy use, and encourage gas and oil exploration. IDA also had financed
projects to expand the country's power generation, transmission, and distribution
capabilities and rural electrification systems. Inthe late 1980s, IDA'Senergy project
portfolio was substantial, with eight projects at various stages o f implementation. These



3. At present, DESCO is still a wholly-ownedsubsidiary o f DESA. However there are a number of crucial
differences betweenthe two: DESCOwas set up under the CompaniesAct, its staff are contractual andare
notpaidper civil service scales. Most of its operational services are carried out by privatesubcontractors.
4. BangladeshGas Fields Co., BakhrabadGas Systems Ltd., Sylhet Gas FieldsLtd.
5. Titas Gas Transmission & Distribution Co., JalalabadGas Transmission & Distribution Co.

                                               3


 were evenly dividedbetweengas development (production, processing and
 transportation), and electricity.

 9.       Lending by the Bank for the energy sector shrank dramatically during the 1990s.
 Only three new operations have beenapproved inthe last decade, one for gas in 1995, a
 partial risk guarantee for power generation in2000, and a rural electrificationproject in
 2002. After a longhiatus, a new operation insupport ofpower sector reforms is currently
 being prepared.

 10.     The mainissues addressedby the ESAC (investmentplanning, pricingand
 institutional reforms) had featured under prior SILs, but with limitedprogress. The
 Second Gas Development Project had already obtained government agreement to the
 principle o fthe gas companies self-financing a reasonableproportiono f their future
 investmentrequirements,butvery modest results hadbeenachieved. BPDB's
 reorganization had beenaddressedfor years by IDA and ADB through past project
 lending, butmuchremained to be done at the time ofthe ESAC. Progress inimproving
 the electricity sector's commercial and financial performance had also been
 disappointing. The reform o fthe gas sector's institutional framework had beenagreed
 with GOB inthe mid-1 9 8 0buthadnot beenimplemented.
                                ~ ~

 Objectives and Design of the ESAC

 11.     Formal preparation o fthe ESAC began inMay 1986; it was appraised inMarch
 1987 and negotiated inJuly 1987. However, presentation to the Boardwas delayed until
April 1989 becausethe government had difficulty meeting the requiredconditions.
According to OED's 1993 PPAR, this was basically due to a lack o f government
commitment and an underestimation by Bank staff during project preparation o f the
difficulty o f rapidly solvingthe policy and institutional problems that the sector hadbeen
facing for some time.

12.     The objective o fthe ESAC was to assist GOB inextending and refining its energy
policy and to strengthen energy sector institutions. Under the Third Five-YearPlan
(1986-1990) the government's objectives for the energy sector were to: (a) accelerate the
development of domestic natural gas resourcesto reduce the country's dependence on
imported oil; (b) adjust energy prices to promote the efficient and economic use o f
energy, taking into account social objectives; (c) meet the demand for energy at least cost
to the economy; (d) improve power supply reliability and quality, and reduce system

resourcesrequiredto meet the country's development goals; and (0encourage private
losses; (e) improve energy sector entities' financial performance and mobilize the

sector participation inthe energy sector's development, particularly inoil and gas
exploration.

13.     The major outcomes from the ESAC were expected to be:

    0   more rationalpatterns of energy demand;
    0   improvedinvestmentplanning;
    0   improved financial viability for energy sector entities;
    0   mobilization o f additional resources for the budget; and

                                                     4


      0   removal o f institutional constraints.

 14.      The ESAC was aproduct ofthe 1980s andtherefore did not address the issue of
 expanding private sector participationinenergy supply outside o f oil and gas exploration.
 Evenfor the latter, it was assumedthat adequate action hadbeentaken underthe
 Petroleum Exploration Promotionproject,6 inthe form o fpromotional packages aimed at
 internationaloil companies. The possible involvement o fthe private sector ingas
 productionand transport or inthe electricity sector is not evenmentioned inthe ESAC
 program, eventhough it featured inGOB'SThird Five-Year Plan. Yet within a few years
 o f the end o f ESAC, these came to figure prominently inthe Bank's policy dialog on
 energy with GOB. Evenbefore the ESAC was fully disbursed, the Bank had undertaken a
 review' o fprospects for private participationinenergy, which identifiedopportunities to
 attract private capital and whichurged the government to issue a policy statement
 welcoming private investmentinpower generations8

 15.      The ESAC was bothill-suitedfor deliveringtimely BOPassistanceto GOB (due
 to delays inmeetingits sectoral conditionalities for tranche release) and unpopular with
 sectoral agencies, who were expected to deliver reforms, but received no direct financial
 support inreturn. The latter was a common designflaw o f energy SECALs, as noted by
PARSo f similar operations inTurkey, Philippines and Cote d'Ivoire.

ESAC Conditionalities

 16.     The conditionalities were grouped under three subjects: investmentplanning,
energy pricing, and institutionalperformanceof the main energy sector entities.
These subjects are the focus of this re-assessmentreport. These topics have remained
highly relevant throughout the past 15 years since the ESAC was approved in 1989.

 17.     Investmentplanning: While individual projects may have beenselected on a
least-cost basis prior to the ESAC, the various agencies' overall investmentprogram had
not beenoptimal or integrated into a sectoral investmentprogram that could be
implementedwiththe available financial resources.To address this weakness in
investmentplanning, the ESAC the requiredpreparation ofthree-year, rolling Priority
Investment program^,^ which were designedto take into account the availability of
financial resources as well as rank projects by rates o f return.

18.      Energypricing: Inorder to correct prevailingpricing distortions, the ESAC
aimed at obtaining the government's agreement to increases inenergy price levels and to
improvements intariff structures. As under the Second Gas Developmentproject (1985)
before it, GOB agreedto price natural gas to achieve better economic efficiency, equity,
and resource mobilization. Economic pricing would also help gas companies achieve


6. Cr. 1402-BD of 1983.
7. Report # 7879, dated March 9, 1990.
8. Ittook six more years before GOB published its policy on private power generation.
9. The 3-year rolling plans have recently become the basis for overall national economic planning, since the
5-year planning cycle was dropped at the end o fthe 5th national plan.

                                                     5


 their financial targets, so the ESAC was designed to putadditional pressure on gas
 companies to increase self-financing o f investments.The margins on gas prices received
 by the gas companies were to be set at suchlevels as to allow eachofthem to cover their
 costs, includingdepreciation, and to cover a rising proportion of their annual investment
 programs from internally generated funds to reach 40 percent inFY93 and thereafter.

 19.      Financial covenants were set inthe ESAC to ensure that BPDB would earn a
 minimumrate ofreturn (of 2 percent inFY89 rising to 8 percent inFY93) on assets. The
 rural electrification Cooperatives'O, were requiredto raise tariffs to cover operating
 expenses and interest and an adequate proportiono f investment as a condition o f ESAC
 second tranche release.

 20.      Institutionalperformance: Itwas agreedduringthe ESAC negotiations that
 SGDP conditionalities related to the reorganization of the Petrobangla Group which had
 not beenimplementedwould be includedinthe ESAC. Further implementationo f major
 gas sector reforms, including legal establishment o f new operating companies and
 appointment o f key staff, became conditions o f the ESAC secondtranche release.

21.      In1987, the prospectsofusingtheESAC to makeprogress onthe reorganization
o f BPDB ledto a reorganization study that recommended that BPDB's distribution
operations should be decentralized to strengthenthe interface betweenBPDB and its
consumers and to better control system losses and accounts receivable. Other
recommendations pertained to organizational changes and restructuring within BPDB and
to strengthening its operations, particularly inthe areas o f planning, finance, management
information, and personnel systems. These recommendations were agreed inprinciple by
the government, BPDB, and IDA in 1988, leadingto government approval for the
reorganization o f BPDB, includingthe establishment of the Dhaka Electricity Supply
Authority (DESA) as a separate entity by July 1, 1990.

2.       Implementationand Performancethrough 1992

22.      The ESAC was to be disbursedintwo tranches, the first at Credit effectiveness,
and the second about a year later. Many actions were taken inthe period prior to Board
presentation, which was considerably delayed to permit GOB to meet them. For release
o f the secondtranche, the government hadto meet eleven conditions, relating mainly to
tariff increases and compliance with existing financial covenants o f previous loans
designed to reduce systemlosses and accounts receivable. There were also nine dated
covenants to be met. Despite only partial compliance withthe tranche release conditions,
Bangladesh's critical foreign exchange situation was usedtojustify a Boardwaiver on
gas price increases and tranche release went ahead on schedule inJune 1990. Inaddition,
the data on power systemlosses and BPDB's accounts receivable submittedto the Bank
by GOB for 2"dtranche releaseindicated a higher level of compliance than later turned
out to be the case, and the completionreport'' concluded that the tranche should not have



10. Supplied with electricity by BPDB via the Rural Electrification Board.
11. Report # 10700.

                                               6


 beenreleased. The ESAC `experiment' was not repeatedinBangladesh and instead
 subsequent SILs were once again tiedto policy reforms.

 23.     Investmentplanning: The 1993 PPAR on the ESAC foundthat inpractice, the
 Priority InvestmentProgram (PIP) process had little impact because o f major annual
 deviations betweenthe actual outcome and the PIP, both interms o fthe volume o f
 spending as well as its composition. The PIP process helpedto reduce the extent to which
 lower- priority projects received funding, but the PAR concluded that overall, investment
 planningsaw only modest improvement as a result o fthe ESAC policy conditionality.

 24.     Energypricing: During the ESAC period from FY87 to FY90, weighted average
 gas prices were increased by 43 percent innominal terms andby 15 percent inrealterms.
 As shown inTable 1, betweenFY87 and FY92, significant increasestook place inreal
 gas prices. A calculationo fthe economic price o f gas at that time showed that the
 requiredlevel was Tk.45 per thousand cubic feet with a 12percent discount rate. Thus,
 the increasesachieved in 1987-90 underthe ESAC, whichraisedthe average gas priceto
 Tk.44 per thousand cubic feet in 1990, were sufficient to reach at least the minimum
 estimate o fthe economic resource cost.

 25.     During the ESAC negotiations
 in1987andbefore Boardpresentation         Table 1:BangladeshReal Gas Price
 in 1989, some restructuring of            Increases,FY87-92
 BPDB's tariffs was carried out.           Sector                          Increase %
 Furtherrestructuring was agreed as a      Power                               53
 condition o f secondtranche release       Fertiliser                          33
 (July 1990). BPDB's average tariff        Commercial                          53
was also raised by 15 percent as a         Industrial                          22
condition of negotiations, so a large      Domestic
partofthe ESAC power tariff reforms                                            24

were infact carried out in 1987-88,        Weighted average price             45.5
                                           in FY92 (TWMCF)
before BoardPresentation.

26.     Institutionalperformance: Implementationofkey steps ina dated action plan
for BPDB's reorganization and the start o f commercial operations by DESA were to be
conditions o f secondtranche release, but waivers hadto be granted regarding DESA,
because o f major delays that stemmedfrom a lack o f commitment by BPDB's
management and heavy resistance by the unions to the creation o f DESA.Many months
elapsedbefore GOB and BPDB were able to take the necessaryactions to enable DESA
to commence commercial operations inlate 1991.

27.     The oppositionofthe unions to the reorganization o fBPDB was underestimated
both by the consultants and by IDA staff. The consultants hadproposed the creation o f
five distribution companies. But the unions were afraid that this would leadto BPDB's
dismantling and to privatization, and a decline intheir influence. Despite the reluctance
o f BPDB's management (which was aware o f union opposition), GOB agreed with IDA
to the establishment o f DESA as a starting point. Itwas only much later that the unions
agreedto DESA's formation under the conditionthat DESA would not be privatized. As
pointed out by the PPAR, IDA staff and consultants should have beenmuch more

                                                 7


 realistic about the difficulty o f setting upfive distribution companies andthe prospects of
 enacting such fundamental structural reforms underthe quick-disbursing ESAC,

 28.     As part ofthe ESAC program, the government agreedto bringBPDB's energy
 losses down to 35 percentfor Boardpresentation andto 32 percent for release o fthe
 secondtranche. While the Board conditionwas met, losses rose again and reached 41
 percent infiscal years 1991and 1992. However, the secondtranche had beenreleased on
 the basis ofincorrect(unaudited) dataprovidedto IDAthat indicated a level oflosses
 below the covenanted 32 percent.

 29.     Under SGDP, agreement was reachedwith GOB to create gas operating
 companies with functional rather than geographical responsibilities. Petrobangla would
 be divestedof all operational activities and become aholding company, with the
 government's equity inthe operating companies, and be responsible for investment
 planningand monitoring as well as sector policy formulation. The operating companies
 placedunder Petrobangla's control were to include a national explorationand drilling
 company, a single nationalgas productioncompany, a nationaltransmission company,
 initially three regional distribution companies, a compressednatural gas company and a
 solid minerals company. The boards o f directors o f the operating companies would
 include Petrobangla representatives but no government representatives; the government's
 control would be exercised through its representation on Petrobanglas's own board.

 30.     Itwas agreedduring the ESACnegotiations that SGDP conditionalities relatedto
the reorganization o f the PB Group which had not beenimplementedwould be included
 inthe ESAC. Furtherimplementation ofmajor gas sector reforms, includinglegal
establishment o f new OCs and appointment o f key staff, became conditions o fthe ESAC
second tranche release, but these institutional measures were only very partially inplace
whentranche releasetook place.

3.       Performance since 1992

Private Sector ParticipationinEnergy

31.      Private gas andpower productioni s a major success story inan energy sector that
has shown disappointing progress invirtually all other respects. The past decade, and
especially the past five years, has witnessedunprecedentedforeign private investment in
both gas and electricity productioninBangladesh. These investmentshave transformed
the energy sector: today, over a fifthof gas productionand a thirdofelectricity
generation i s by the private sector andthese shares are likely to grow further.Meanwhile,
inparallel, theperformance ofenergy parastatals continues to beunsatisfactory. This may
appear paradoxal, but experience elsewhere'' has also shown that substantial private
investmentcan occur inunreformed energy sectors, depending upon specific country
conditions.



12. "Power for Development-A review o fthe World Bank Group's experiencewith privateparticipation
inthe electricitysector" OED/OEG/OEU, December2003.

                                                    8


 32.     For a brief period (which i s now coming to an end) the gas and power produced
 by the private sector easedthe energy supply bottleneck (at least at the productionend-
 there were still localizedshortages due to insufficient transmission capacity) in
 Bangladesh for the first time in20 years. This was a major benefitto the whole economy
 as power cuts (withall their attendant disruption and extra costs to manufacturers) were
 greatly diminished.

 33.     Eventhoughprivate sector development was not atheme ofthe ESAC, it was a
 priority o f the government under the ThirdFive-Year Plan. Therefore, this reassessment
 cannot ignore it, given its crucial importance, the economic benefitsto the country from
 the big expansion ingas andpower production, andthe fact that the Bank playedboth a
 catalytic as well as direct enabling role inbringing this impressive inflow o f foreign
 direct investment (US$1.5-2 billion) to the Bangladeshi energy sector.

 34.     The Bank was instrumental insettingup and financingthe Power Cell ofthe
 MinistryofEnergyandMineralResourcesin 1995.The Power Cellplayedakeyrole in
 drawing up the government statement o f policy on private power generation in 1996,
 which inturn opened the door to potential investors. The Power Cell then successfully
piloted the independentpower productionprogram, with assistancefrom a PHRD grant.
Italso was a major participant inthe analytical workI3and ininternaldebate on power
sector institutional reforms. By usinga competitive selection process for IPPs,
Bangladesh avoided the error committed by Pakistan inits 1994 private power generation
policy o f offering a fixed tariff to all comers, as well as that o f Indonesia, which opted for
negotiated and non-transparent deals with private project developers.

35.      The Haripur (360 MW) and Meghnaghat (450 MW) independentpower producers
are important successes. The process through whichthey were selectedwas transparent
andhighlycompetitive, leading to Bangladesh obtaining the bestprices on recordfor any
developing country independentpower producer. The energy from these plants i s cheaper
than from BPDB's own generation, which it has scaledback somewhat to be able to
absorb this large chunk o f low-cost power. The Bank deserves credit for its support o f
these projects via a Partial Risk Guarantee for Haripur and the on-lending o f IDA funds
for Meghnaghat via a financial intermediary.

Private Sector Investment in Gas

36.      The Bank'.s advice to the government to improve the incentive and contractual
terms for oil and gas exploration ledto the publicationo f a new petroleumpolicy inmid-
1993.This was followed by an investmentpromotion roundtable conference hosted by
Petrobangla inlate 1993 targeted at internationaloil companies. Itwas highly successful
and gave a major impetusto the opening o f the gas sector to foreign private capital for
exploration activities. Itwas organized by specialized consultants and fundedby the
PHRD Trust Fund.Four productionsharing contracts were signed in 1994-95 directly as
a result of this promotional effort and two more followed in 1997.


13. Various consultantstudieson institutionalreforms were funded by the Bank (usingPHRD resources
channeledthroughthe PowerCell).

                                                    9


 37.     The second petroleum investmentpromotionroundtable conference heldinearly
 1997 was also a significant form o f assistance from the World Bank Group via the PHRD
 Trust Fund.It yielded 37 bids from 21 international oil companies for the exploration
 blocks offered. Consultingassistancewas also providedfor bid evaluation from GIDP as
 thetrust fundhadbeenfully used. Butthe processwas derailed, becamepoliticizedand
 subject to outside pressures. Ultimately, only four productionsharing contracts were
 signedin2000-01 after a lengthydelay. Only some seismic work has beenundertakenfor
 one of the four blocks so far, partly because oil company enthusiasm for investing in
 Bangladesh has since slackenedt4.In2003, two major oil companies divestedtheir
 interests inBangladesh, leaving only two foreign gas producing companies presentinthe
 country.

 InvestmentPlanningand ResourceDevelopment

 38.     This reassessmentfound that there has not beena significant improvement in
 energy sector planning over the past decade since the end o f ESAC. The Bangladesh
 energy sector has numerous examples o f shortcomings inplanning, often compounded by
the absence ofdecisions to implementplans, as illustrated inthe ensuing paragraphs.

39.      There is little evidence that the Priority InvestmentProgram (PIP) approach ledto
better coordinationbetweenpower and gas investmentprograms. Preparation of PIPSwas
continued under the Bank's last lendingoperation for gas," inwhich it was agreedthat an
annual review of the sector's PIPi6 would be undertaken with IDA, but this practice does
not appear to have become routine.

40.      The 1990s were characterized by shortages ofboth gas andpower that forced the
private sector to invest in standby generators runon imported diesel. At times gas supply
insome areas was adequatebutpipelinebottlenecks preventedgas from being
transported to deficit areas. Electricity supply was similarly unbalanced; some areas
experienced a power surplus while others were experiencing load shedding. Expensive,
barge-mounted oil-fired "emergency" power plants were brought into ease the shortages,
while athird ofBPDB's generation capacity was unavailable due to lack ofmaintenance.

41,     Therehad long beena major imbalance ingas supply betweenthe East and West
Zones o f Bangladesh" and bringing gas supply to the latter was an economic priority for
the government. Once the maingas pipelineover the Jamuna was commissioned inthe
late 1990s, a major pushfor increasing gas and power availability to the West Zone
would have beenthe best way to reap the benefits from new pipeline.Butthe
complementary investment ingas distribution was slow to materialize, despitethe gfh
National Five Year Plan (1997-2002) objective to builda national gas grid. Nor has there



14. Inpartdue to the mishandlingo f the 2"dround biddingprocessby GOB and poormanagementof the
existingPSCs.
15. GIDP, approvedin 1995.
16. Then estimatedto be about US$600m (in 1994 prices) for the 1995-2000period.
17. Which were divided by the JamunaRiver.

                                                    10


 beena big pushfor electrificationinthe West Zone. Power plants inKhulna still depend
 on expensive liquid fuels because o f delays inextendingthe gas grid inthe West Zone.

 42.      The gas sector has also continued to have problems with planningand
 prioritization, this was most evident inthe failure to buildthe Ashuganj NGL
 fractionationplant. The first attempt to fund the project was through the Second Gas
 DevelopmentProject (SGDP), thenthrough a proposed restructuring o f the LPG
 Transport and distribution project18inthe mid/late 1990s. Since the abortive attempts to
 fundthe plant withIDA resources, there has beena debate on seeking a private investor
 to build and runthe plant and/or the government financing it from its own resources.But
 to date, this supposedly "high-priority" project has never got off the drawing board; nor
 are there any current plans to build it. High-value petroleum products like propane and
 butane are thus being disposed of for low prices instead o f being separated and sold as
 premiumproducts likebottledLPG gas for domestic use.

 43.      Gas shortages eased around 2000, as a result o f production from new fields
 developed by international oil companies. Hence, the new independentpower producers
were not handicapped by insufficient gas supply andtheir productioninturn helped
reduce load shedding. However, there is now a risk that power shortages will re-emerge
innearterm. Theprogram for solicitingnewbids for independentpower producer
capacity has runinto delays, while demand continues to grow robustly. Near-term
prospects for gas supply seem to be satisfactory, with new fields expected on stream
shortly. However, gas transmission bottlenecks are already apparent.

44.      The coal sector illustrates the consequencesof ignoring least-cost planning
principles. Investmentincoal development inBangladesh has continued since a 1994
agreement with a Chinese consortium to develop an underground mineto produce a
million tons o f coal per year, despite Westerndonor objections on grounds o f high cost
and misallocation o f resources. But coal productionand power generation from it i s still
several years away. This project i s expected to cost over half a billion dollars to produce
a fuel that will be usedto generate electricity at twice the cost o f gas-based generation.

45.      All these examples are indicativeofplanningshortcomings during the post-ESAC
period inBangladesh, which have beencompounded by insufficient or uncoordinated and
delayed investmentsby the major public sector energy producers, leading to a suboptimal
and wasteful use o f scarce resources.

Energy Pricing

46.      This reassessmentfound that there was limitedprogress withpricing issues in
both the gas and electric power sectors during the past decade. For a substantial period in
the 199Os, energy prices actually declined inrealterms.




18. Cr. 2263, approved in 1991, dependedentirely for LPG supply on the AshugangNGL plantbeingbuilt.

                                                    11


 GasPricing and Finances

 47.      Improvements inthe real level o f gas prices inthe early 1990s (see para. 24) were
 not sustained, because o f the infrequency o fprice increases, as can be seen from Table 2.
 The near five-year freeze ingas prices from early 1994to late 1998 eroded their real
 value by a quarter." However, prices have climbed sharply since 2000 inboth real (Taka)
 and U.S. dollar terms to wipe out the declines of the mid-1990s. Since 1990, the
 Bangladesh CPIhas risen by about 70 percent intotal, while average gas prices are now
 about 90 percent above their nominal 1990 level.

 48.      No action was taken during the
 ESAC (or subsequently), to alter relative             Table 2: BangladeshAverage Gas Prices
 gas-prices inorder to reduce the extent o f
 -                                                     Date ofprice adjustment           Taka/     US$
 subsidiesto the power and fertilizer sectors                                            MCF      /MCF *
 or to domestic users of gas. Only 4 percent                                         (nominal)

 o f households have access to domestic gas            FY 90                              44       1.36

 supply and benefitfrom a subsidy                      May 1992                           50       1.28
 estimated at nearly Tk.3 billion (over                March 1994                         55       1.37
US$50 million) annually. The vast                      December 1998                      63       1.29
maiority, who use kerosene or LPG for                  September 2000                     73       1.37
cooking,- receive no subsidy at all.
     "                                                 January 2002                       78       I.37
                                                       September 2002                     86       1.48
49.       A phasedtransition to a new gas              * Using the exchange rate prevailing at the
pricing system was agreed with the                     time of the price change.
government inearly 2003 as part o f the                MCF = thousand cubic feet
reform program supported by the single-tranche Development Support Credit disbursed
upon effectiveness inJune 2003. It i s potentially a major breakthrough inthat it links the
wellhead price o f Petrobangla's own gas to the international oil price and i s designedto
allow the operating companies to retain a higher proportiono f gross revenues. However,
at the time o f the reassessmentmissionfor the ESAC inDecember 2003, the government
had fallen behindinthe agreed timetable for its introduction*'. It i s too early to gauge if
this reformis likelyto succeedafter almost 20 years ofunsuccessfulattempts to
rationalize gas pricing inBangladesh.

50.       The only step to reduce the government share o f gross gas revenues andto
increase the operating margins o f the gas companies was in 1994, when excise duties on
gas were cut fiom 62 percent to 55 percent. Eventhough the government had agreed with
IDA to annually reviewthe operating margins ofthe gas companies (as part ofthe
conditions o f the GIDP loan in 1985), no further action was taken to increase them. The
total fiscal take from the gas sector at the end o fthe 1990swas an excessively high65
percent o f gross revenues.Ithas not yet beenreduced. All Bank efforts to convince the
government that permittinggreater resources to remain inthe sector will allow for better
maintenance and new investmenthave beenineffective. The government continues to


19. The CPIrose by 24 percent duringthat period.
20. Petrobanglapointed out that the pricingformula has beengazetted by GOB and a proposal for a new
price is under active consideration by GOB.

                                                    12


 treat the gas sector as a `cash cow' which can be milkedwith little concern for the future
 development or sustainability of the industry.

 Electricity Pricing and Financia1Performance

 51.     Electricity tariffs saw a modest increase over the FY87-92 periodthat was
 examined by the original OED performance assessment. Significantprogress was also
 achieved inreforming the structure o f tariffs. The number o f units o fpower available to
 residential consumers at heavily subsidized rates was reduced, (withthe exception o f the
 rural electrification cooperatives), and incentives to reduce consumption during peak
 hours (e.g., time-of-day tariffs) were introduced for BPDB's major non-residential
 consumers. However, the progress was partially reversedbecause the structure o fthe
 residential tariff blocks was altered ina regressive manner. In 1996, the first (subsidized)
 block was increased from 200 kWhto 300 kWh/month, contrary to economic logic,
 whichwould have ledto a reduction inthe size ofthe initial block (see Annex table D).

 52.     Inreality, after the ESAC performance assessmentwas written, the tariff structure
was adversely modified, tariffs remained frozen for five years and financial covenants
with IDA were not met. So, interms ofpower sector finances, the post-ESAC periodsaw
reversals rather than progress. Electricity tariffs charged by BPDB andDESA" remained
unchanged from 1991to 1996, even though their 1991level was substantially below cost
recovery. There have beensmall annual increases since 1997, so the increase inaverage
revenue per unit for BPDB from Tk. 1.90/kWh inFY 92-93 to Tk. 2.5 inFY02-03 i s
about 30 percent intotal. However, during the same period, the Bangladesh consumer
price index rose by over 50 percent, clearly indicating that real electricity prices have
fallen substantially. InU.S.dollar terms, BPDB i s earning only about 4.5 cents/kWh on
average, which is less revenue per unit than 10 or 15 years ago when it was averaging
5.5-6.5 cents/kWh. Fortunately, BPDB's operations and maintenance costs have also
fallen as a result o f the rising proportion o f low-cost generation from independentpower
producers inBPDB's generation mix.

53.      DESA has fared even worse: its average revenuebarely increased innominal
Taka terms during the past decade. It was Tk.2.4/kWh inFY92-93 and had only risento
Tk. 2.5/kWh inFY02-03. At this level, it cannot even cover its average supply costs o f
about Tk. 3/kWh.

54.      Major subsidies to household consumers are still prevalent today, while industrial
and commercial consumers continue to be overcharged incomparison to their long-run
marginal supply cost (see tariff schedule inAnnex D). The size o f the first residential
tariff block has recently beenreducedfrom 300 kWh/month to 100kWh, which i s a
positive step, butthe nexttariff block (100-400 kWh) continues to be subsidized". The
bulk tariff to the RuralElectrificationBoard from BPDB and DESA also contains a


21. They have the same tariff schedule andchargethe same ratesto consumers.REB has different
schedulesandtariff ratesthat are somewhathigher.
22. The current tariff schedule has mergedresidentialtariffblocks, with the resultthat the unit price for
consumptionbetween300-400 kWh/monthhas been reduced and is now only as muchas it was in 1997.

                                                  13


 subsidy, even though retail tariffs inrural areas are about 30 percenthigher thaninurban
 areas.

 55.       BPDB has almost never met its financial covenants with IDA, eventhough these
 were modifiedin 199323to emphasizerevenuecollection and energy loss reductionrather
 than an unattainable 8 percent return on revalued assets. Despiterapid annual sales
 growth o f about 10percent, BPDB and DESA operated at a loss throughthe 1990s,
 essentially due to inadequatetariffs and high system losses. InFY02 their combined net
 losses were U S $ l l O million.24

 56.       Performance inreducing power system losses has improved slowly over the past
 decade. Combined (BPDB+DESAz5)energy losses have fallen by about 1percent
 annually. More noteworthy is the significant progress achieved of late: total power sector
 losses (BPDB+DESA+Rural ElectrificationBoard) have beenbrought down inthe past
 three years from 35 percent o f generation to about 30 percent today.

 INSTITUTIONAL         PERFORMANCE

 InstitutionalIssuesinthe Gas Sector26

 57.       Reorganization o fthe gas sector along the lines first envisaged under SGDP and
 thenESAC (paras29-30) hasneverbeenfully implemented. Local vestedinterests
 preventedthe merger ofthe two gas producing companies into one. The transmission
 company GTCL, was set up in 1993, but still does not own all the high-pressure gas
 pipelines inBangladesh, due to resistanceto the pipelinetransfers from the staffofthe
 other operating companies.

 58.      The government continued to be directly representedonthe boards ofthe
operating companies until2003 and decisions relatingto pricing, operating and
development budgets, organizational setup, award of contracts, and even staffing and
training have beensubject to government as well as Petrobangla approval. All matters o f
any importance are still ultimately decided by the government. The long-standing
problem o f insufficient autonomy for operating companies has not eased to any
significant extent during the past decade. Unsurprisingly,neither Petrobangla nor the
government have beenkeen to reduce their tight control over these entities and pressure
from donors inthis direction has been to no avail. A Petrobangla-appointed local
consultant i s expected to report sometime in2004 on the institutional relationships
betweenthe operating companies, Petrobangla, and the Ministryo f Energy and Mineral
Resources.



23. Under the subsequent Power Distribution(16 Towns) project, which closed in 1998.
24. Onthe other hand, REB recorded a profit ofabout US$12 million.
25. It did not exist at the time o fESAC.
26. Moredetailed discussioncan be found inthe PPARfor SGDP and GIDP, preparedconcurrently with
this report.

                                                    14


  59.      Over the past 15 years, many developing countries have taken steps to improve
  the performance oftheir oil and gas sectors, especially through opening the sectors to
  increased competition(includingfrom foreign companies), stronger regulatory authorities
  operating separately from any state ownership interests, abolition o f state monopolies,
  and the privatizationo f state companies, often accompanied by (or preceded by)
  upstream and downstream restructuring.

  60.     InBangladesh, the only departure from anentirely state-run gas sector has been
  the involvement o f international companies inupstream activities (exploration and related
  development and production). The Bank's gas projects have had little impact on the
  institutional development o fthe state-owned sector entities inBangladesh. There has
  beenlittle systemic reform since the time the SGDP was appraised 20 years ago and
 Bangladesh does not yet have modernand well-run gas enterprises inthe public sector
 that can contribute to the efficient utilization of its resources.

 InstitutionalIssuesin the Power Sector

 61.      Because o f the repeated delays inDESA's start-up, IDA suspendeddisbursements
 underthe 16Towns Power DistributionProject inSeptember 1991(which includeda
 covenant to the effect that DESA would start commercial operations inmid-1990). It
 eventually took three years (from late 1988 to February 1992) betweenthe time the
 government approved the creation o f DESA and the time DESA's organizational
 structure was sanctioned and redeployment and recruitment o f staff started.

 62.      Disbursementsunderthe 16 Towns Power DistributionProject remained
 suspendedfor 17months       ",  Thereafter the project was restructuredand the financial
 covenants altered. But no component for the newly created DESA was included inthe
 project, presumably because it was felt that DESA's needs were being met by the Asian
Development Bank and U.K.bilateral assistance.

 63.     However, DESA started life with several major handicaps. Its management came
from the same pool as BPDB since new senior staff were not hiredfrom outside. Italso
inheritedthe same labor problems that hadplagued BPDB. The fact that it was set upas
an "authority'' rather than as a company meant that it was saddled with the same
bureaucratic constraints as BPDB and inheritedstrong, politicized unions and a poorly
performingworkforce that could not easily be dismissed.

64.      Furthermore, the creation o f DESA was inno sense a solution to the deep-seated
problem o fpoor corporate governance and weak management inthe power distribution
business. The high level of illegal connections and unrecorded consumption, combined
withpoor revenuecollectionwere (and still are) the Achilles' heel ofthe entire power
sector. There i s no indication inthe Bank documents for the ESAC as to how this was to
be tackled.



27. Newlendingfor power by IDA andthe major donorshadalso beensuspendedbecause ofBPDB's
financialproblems. AlthoughIDA has considereda new lendingoperationfor BPDBDESAat various
times inthe post ESAC period, this has never materialized.

                                                    15


 65.      The Bank's majorrole inthe decisionto createDESA as part ofthe ESAC
 conditionality behooved it to assist inbuilding the new institution. Yet inthe past decade,
 the Bank has consciously stayedaway from involvementwithDESA andhasnot
 provided it with any institutional or capacity building assistance.However, it should have
 beenclear that there could be no comprehensive improvements insector performance by
 ignoring such a large segment o f the market -DESA accounted for a third of total
 system peak demand in 1992.A decade later the DESA'' share hadrisento 42 percent o f
peak demand and net energy sales. Inthe absence of the Bank, DESA has reliedmainly
 on funding and advice from the Asian Development Bank. No twinning arrangement with
 a foreign utility was put inplace2'for capacity building. Non-technicallosses remained
unacceptably highthroughout the post-ESAC decade.

66.       DESAhas also sufferedfrom inadequatemanagement leadership, having had
about 10 chairmen since it started operations in 1992, almost one a year. Today, DESA is
burdenedwith surplus staffat atime when its own franchise area i s shrinking. When
DESCO was created in 1998, (as part o fpolicy reforms pursuedby the ADB) and took
over distributionzones from DESA, it didnot take any o fthe former DESA staff, but
hiredafresh. In essence,part of the commercial and operationalproblems that had
afflicted BPDB before the creation of DESA had simply been shifted to a new entity,
which had not been given the authority, the incentives, or the means of solving them.

4.        Outcome andAssessment

Outcome

67.      This reassessmentconcludes that the expectedbenefits didnot materialize to any
significant extent inthe aftermath o f the ESAC, as indicated below:

         More rationalpatterns of energy demand: Modest progress was recorded in
         introducing some time-of-day pricing but distortions inboth gas and electricity
         tariff structures and excessive cross subsidies o f residential consumers were not
         eliminated.
     0   Improved investmentplanning: Planningfell out of favor duringthe 1990s in
         many countries and Bangladesh was no exception. There are no recent long-term
         investmentplans for power or gas development, but evenifthere were, better
         planning couldnot have made up for the shortcomings inpublic sector
         management, decision-making and project implementationinthe energy sector as
         a whole.
     0   Improvedjnancial viabilityfor energy sector entities: For gas, ESAC price
         increases were not sustained inreal terms during most o fthe 1990s, although they
         have risen sharply inthe last 2-3 years. Operating company margins are still much
        too low and the finances o f the Petrobangla group o f companies remainweak.
        Initial ESAC gains inelectricity pricing have been eroded by inflation and they

28. IncludingDESCO.
29. Akin to the assistancegivento the RuralElectrificationBoardbythe U.S. NationalRuralElectric
CooperativeAssociation.

                                               16


         are now lower inrealterms than a decade ago. BPDBDESA consistently made
         large financial losses during the 1990s. However, there are now indications of real
         progress inimprovedrevenue collections and energy loss reductionsince 2000.
         Mobilization of additional resourcesfor the budget: Lowtariffs, high losses, and
         poor revenue collection inthe power sector meanthat it i s a burden, not a net
         contributor to the nationalbudget. Unpaid debt service to the government by
         BPDB on foreign loans amounts to US$1 billion (Tk.56 billion) and the combined
         sectoral operating loss inFY02 was nearly Tk. 8 billion. The gas sector has
         always beena substantial contributor to government revenues, but cannot
         generate more resources inrelative terms since the government already takes
         about 65 percent of gross gas sector revenues. However, expanding sales and a
         higher share o f "equity" gas from production sharing contracts will leadto higher
         revenues for the government inabsolute terms.
         Removal of institutional constraints: As describedinparas 57-60, above,
         institutional reforms envisaged as part o f the ESAC were either undertaken only
         partially (thePetrobangla reorganization), or failed to lead to better performance
         (thecreation ofDESA).

 68.     For the above reasons, the ESAC's overall outcome i s rated as unsatisfactory.
 Table 3 compares the key performance ratings o f the PAR with those o f this
 ReassessmentReport.

 Sustainability

 69.     Giventhe modest benefits from the ESAC andthe backslidingon electricity
pricing (paras 52-53), overall sustainability i s assessedto be unlikely.

InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

70.      Gas sector reforms were initiatedunder SGDP, reiterated inESAC and continued
under GIDP. However, they are still incomplete (paras 58-60). ESAC's contribution to
institutional development inthe gas sector was modest at best.

71.     Inelectricity, the creation ofDESA didnot solve any ofthe sector's institutional
weaknesses. Insome respects it was a retrograde step and it could be argued that overall
commercialperformance o f the sector inthe 1990s might have improvedmore had it
remained part o f BPDB all along. While this cannot be proved, it i s clear that creating a
new entity gave rise to additional costs, (such as inthe form o f overheads), withno
discernible benefits to consumers or to the government through better performance. This
reassessmenttherefore concludes that ESAC's institutional development impact inthe
power sector was negative.

72.     Overall, ESAC's institutional development impact on the gas and power sector
taken together is therefore rated as negligible.

                                                  17


 BankPerformance

 73.     With similar experience from other countries, ithas become apparentthat
 SECALs are an inappropriate lending instrumentfor wide-ranging and difficult energy
 sector reforms, particularly of an institutionalnature. While this may not have been
 apparent at the time the ESAC was appraised, the program's over-ambitious scope,
 complexity and unrealistic timeframe should have beentaken into consideration.
 Insufficient attention was paid to the low-level of ownership bythe borrower. The Bank's
 advice to create DESA was probably erroneous. Finally, as recognized by the completion
 report for the project, the second tranche conditions were not thoroughly scrutinized for
 compliance and the tranche was releasedprematurely. For these reasons, Bank
performance i s rated as unsatisfactory.

BorrowerPerformance

74.      Commitment to the goals ofthe ESAC on the part o f the government and the
energy sector entities was low. The government didnot meet a significant number of
ESAC second tranche conditions. Data submittedto the Bank showing reductions in
BPDB's accounts receivable and system losses necessary for the latter turned out to be
erroneous and the real figures were significantly worse. Reversal o f progress on energy
pricing inthe post-ESAC periodby a five-year freeze on tariff increases, aggravated the
already poor finances o f the sector. For these reasons, borrower performance i s assessed
as unsatisfactory.

CONCLUSIONS                         Table 3: ComparativePerformanceRatings

75.     Itis significant as         Indicator            PAR (1993)          Reassessment (2004)
well as sobering to note that       Overall Outcome      Barely satisfactory Unsatisfactory
the bulkofthe energy sector         Rehance              Not rated           High
issues, problems and policy         Sustainability       Uncertain           Unlikely
recommendations from the            ID Impact            Partial             Negligible
1980s recurred inthe 1990s          Bank Performance     Not rated           Unsatisfactory
and are still highon the            Borrower Performance Not rated           Unsatisfactory
agenda today. The list o f
unfinishedreforms is lengthy andjudging bythe slow progress ofthe pasttwo decades,
they are likelyto take another decade or two to implement.

76.     The lack of a clearly articulated energy sector development strategy to rapidly
extendaccess to gas and electricity nationwide (but most particularly inthe western half
ofBangladesh) is a regrettable omission inBangladesh's developmental goals. Its
absence has also hinderedprogress toward accelerated access to modern energy for
Bangladeshis by allowing attention to be divertedto the option o f gas exports to India,
despite the political difficulties involved.

77.    Nevertheless, the Bangladeshi energy sector taken as a whole i s inmuch better
shape than a decade ago, despitemajor unresolved problems inits parastatal entities.
Shortages have beengreatly reduced, access to electricity has increased substantially in

                                                       18


 rural areas3' and the private sector plays an important and growing role inthe energy
 supply business. Bangladesh's successful experience with independentpower producers
 (para 35) deserves more international coverage, particularly among the Bank's other
 clients. Contrary to expectations inthe midlate 1990s, the participationof the private
 sector inenergy has neither acted as a catalyst for reforms among energy parastatals, nor
 ledto an unsustainable financial crisis inthe Bangladesh energy sector (which inturn
 could have triggered reforms). This finding i s fully consistent with the recent
 OED/OEG/OEU study3'on private participationinelectricity that concluded `good
 individual private sector project outcomes cannot alone ensure good sector-level
 outcomes'.

 5.       Lessons Learned

 78.      The mainlessonsthat canbe drawn from the Bangladesh ESAC and subsequent
 developments inthe energy sector are givenbelow. They are consistent with experience
 from energy sector operations inother countries.

      0   SECALs are apoor choice o f lendinginstrument for long-gestation institutional
          reforms inthe energy sector because o f the budgetarylbalance o f payments
          imperatives to disbursefunds quickly and the difficulty of obtaining ownership by
          implementing agencies o f reforms inthe absence o f any targeted funding to them
          (paras 15 & 22);

     0    Creating new entities such as DESA or GTCL i s not a solutionto deep-seated
          problems o f corporate governance and managerial weakness that plague the
          energy sector (para 64); and


     0    The Bank should not pushfor the creation ofnew entities unless it is willing to
          commit to assisting such bodies as are born out o f Bank-financed reforms (para
          65).




30. There are now over 4 million rural households with access to electricity, considerably more than the
total number o f electrified homes in urban areas, although the rural access rate i s still only 20 percent. Ifthe
current annual rate of 0.5 million new connections can be sustained by REB, 30 percent electrification o f
rural households is achievable by 2010.
31. "Power for Development -A review o f the WBG's experience with private participation inthe
electricity sector" by Manibog, Dominguez & Wegner, December 2003.

                                                   19                                         Annex A


 Annex A. Basic Data Sheets

 ENERGY         SECTOR ADJUSTMENTCREDIT (CREDIT 1 9 9 9 - ~ ~ )

 Key ProjectFinancingData (amounts in US$million)

                                               Appraisal           Actual or            Actual as% of
                                                estimate        Current estimate       appraisal estimate
 International Development Association          177.3              179.45                  101



 Cumulative TotalActual Disbursements
                                    FY89   FY90
 Plannedla                          0.00   117.30
Actual (US$M)                      30.00   147.56




ProjectDates
                                                        Original                        Actual
Board approval                                         04111/89                        04111/89
Effectiveness                                          06/27/89                        06/05/89
Closing date                                           12/31191                        07/03/90


StaffInputs(staff weeks)
                                                                            Staff Weeks
Preappraisal                                                                      190.5
Appraisallnegotiat ions                                                           42.8
Supervision                                                                        32.0
ICR                                                                                10.8
Total                                                                             276.1


MissionData
                     Date      No. of
                (month/year) persons       Specializationsrepresented


Identification/  May 1986        12                     __
Preparation
Appraisal       March 1987       I O                    --
Supervision      July 1988        7
                 December        7                      ____
                     1989
Completion


                                             21                                                    Annex B

Annex B.Borrower             Comments




         ~ ~ ~ 2 F i e l , r M s l l o ~ q a o F i ~ ~ ( t ~ s p
         BangladeshOil, Gas & MineralCorporation(Petrobangla)

   No. 32.07.70 '186                                                             Dated:15 -06-2004.


   Thc Secretary
   Eiurgyand MineralKosourcesDivision                       1 - - 4
   MinistryofPower, EnergyandMinerd Resources
   BangladeshSecretariate
   Dhaka-1000.                 1                             InitialE:.l..l-.-...-.l... C--..-..-.---
                                                                            a ITcam, WOO0

   Attention : BenumMaksura Noor. Sr. Asstt. Secretam.

          Sub:   Comments of Petrobangla on Draft Project Performance Assessment Report of
                 Second Gas Development Project (Cr. No.l586BD),                    Gas Mastructure
                 Development    Project (Cr. No, 2720-BD) and Bangladesh-Energy Sector
                 AdiustmentCredit (Credit No.1999-BD).

   Dear Sir,

          Kindly refer to the World Bank letter of 17 May, 2004 addressed to the Secretary,
   Economic Relations Division along with the copy of Draft Project Performance Assessment
   Report of Second Gas Development Project (Cr. No.l586BD),Gas Inhtructure Development
   Pmject (Cr. No.2720-BD) and Draft ProjectPerformance Re-assessmentReport ofBangladesh-
   Energy Sector Adjustment Credit (Credit No. 1999-BD). As desired necessary comment
   concemingPetrobanglais attachedherewith for kind perusal and fiuther necessary action.

          Thanking yod,

                                                                       Sincerely Yours,
                                                              /&$&$&\,,
                                                         Major             .Muqtadir    Ali (Retd.)


   Enclo :As statedabove.
  7      Mr.AlainBarbyManager,SectorandThematicEvaluationGroup.
         OperationEvaluationDepartment.World Bank Office, 3& Paribagh, Dhaka
 ' 2.    Manager (Co-ordination). ChairmanSection, Petrobangla,Dhaka.


                                                                                                          .-
     PETROCENTRE,3, Kewran0erar CIA. Dhaka-1216,G.P.O. ~ O No-&W.Cable :Petrob.nala
     Telephone : PABX-0121010-18, 9121095-41, Fax : 88-02-9120224
                                                              X

     web slte : www.petrobnngla.org, E-mail : petchair@petrobangle.org

                                   22                                    Annex B


        Commentsof PetrobanglaOn ProjectPerformanceReassessmentReport
               OfEnergySector AdjustmentCredit (Cr.1999-BD)

 hrr
  110.


1.




2.




3.                                            stment programs of the
                                               into sectoral investnaent




4.
                                                                        continue at the rate




5.




6.

                                                    23                                        Annex B




7.    The fnmted and overlopphg structure of the Peaobangla open-            COrnpanieS md
      their unsatisfactory collective perfommce d e d for a realignment of tbe variouc
      entities involved in the sector, the streamlining of their responsibilities, and
      consolidation and strengthening of available expertise inplanaing and Operations. A
      sweepinginstitutionalreformo f the sector hadinitially beena p e d inthe courseOf
      appraising the Second Gas Project in 1984 and was then incorporated in the
      conditionalityfor the ESAC.
      PreviousandSubmquentBankLendingfor Energy

8.    Before the MAC, IDA hadprovided 10 credits for energy projects amountingto about
      USS600 million (see Annex E). Thew projectsrepresented 19 percent of IDA resources
      committedto Bangladeshinthe period 1979-88. Lendinginthe energy sectors hadbeen
      designedto expandthe use o fnaturalgas as a substitute for importedoil, rationalizethe
      country's supplyofpetroleumproducts, promoteconservationandmore eficient energy
      use, and encourage gas and oil exploration. IDA also had !%wed projects to expand
      the country's power generation, transmission, and distriiution capabilities and rural
      electrificationsystems.Inthe late 19809, IDA'Senergy projectportfolio was substantial,
      with eight projects at various itages of implementation. These were evenly divided
      betweengas development(production, processingandtransportation), andelectricity.
9.    Lendingby the Bank for the energy sector shrank dramatically during the 1990s. only
      three new operations have been approved in the last decade, one for gas in 1995, a
      partialrisk guarantee for power generation in2000, and a ruralelectrificationprojectin
      2002. After a long hiatus, a new operation in support of power sector reforms is
      currentlybeingprepared.
IO.   The main issues addressedby the ESAC (investment planning, pricing and institutional
     reforms) had featured under prior SILs, but with limited progress. The Second Gas      Nocomment

      DevelopmentProjecthadalreadyobtainedgovernmentagreementto the pMciple of the
      gas companies self-financing a reasonable proportion of their fi~tureinvestment
     requirements, butvery modest resultshad been achieved. BPDBIs reorganizationhad
     been addressed for years by IDA and ADB through past project lending, but much
     remained to be done at the lime of the ESAC. Progress in improvhg the electricity
      sector's commercialand financialperformancehadalso beendisappointing. The reform
      ofthe gas sector's institutionalframework hadbeenagreed withGOB inthe mid-1980%
     buthadnotbeenimplemented.
11.  Objectiva andDeslgnofthe ESAC                                                          No continent
     Formalpreparationof the ESACbeganinMay 1986; it was appraisedinMarch 1987
     and negotiated in July 1987. However, presentation to the Board was delayed until
     April 1989 because the government had difficulty meeting the required c o n d i t i ~ ~ .
     According to OED's 1993 PPAR, this was basically due to a lack of government
      :o"itmnt      and an underestimationby Bank staff during project preparation of the
      iiflhltyofrapidlysolvingthe policy andinstitutionalproblrmsthat thcsectorhad
      =en facing for some time.
12.   me objective of the MAC was to assist GOB in extending and refining its energy
      )olicy and to strengthen energy sector institutions. Under the Third Five-Year Plan   Nocomment
      '1986-1990) the government's objectives for the energy sector were to: (a) accelerate
      he development of domestic natural gas resourcesto reduce the country's dependence
      )n importedoil; (b) adjust en-rgy prices to promote the efficient and economic use of
      mrgy, taking into account social objectives; (c) mcet the demand for energy at least
      :ost to the economy; (d) improve power supply reliability and quality, and reduce
      iystem losses; (e) improve energy sector entities' financial performaace andmobilize
      he resources required to meet the country's development goals; and (0 encourage
      )rivate sector participation in the encrgysccto~sdevelopment, particularly in oil and
      !as exploration.
13.   The majoroutcomes fromthe ESACwere expectedto be:
               morerationalpatternsofenergydemand;     .                                    Noc o m n t

               improvedinvestmentplanning;
          0    @roved financialviability for energysector entities;
          0    mobilizationo fadditionalresources for thebudget;and
          0    removalofinstitutionalconstraints.

                                                   24                                       Annex B


14.




IS.




16.




17.




18,                                                        in energy price levels and to

     before it, GOB agreedto price naturalgas to achievebettereconomic efficiency, equity,
     and resourcemobilization. Economic pricing would also help gas companies achieve
     their financial targets, so the ESAC was designed to put additional pressure on gas
     companies to increase self-financing of investmnts. The margins on gas prices
     receivedby the gas companies were to be set at such levels as to allow eachof themto
     cover their cos&, includingdepreciation,and to cover a risingproporlionoftheir annual
                 programs Erom internally generatedfunds to reach 40 percent in FY93 and


19.
                                                                  cent inFY93) on assets.




20.

      3een implementedwould be included in the ESAC. Further implementationofmajor




                                                                                          8

                                              25                                      Annex B




In 1987, the prospects of usingthe M A C tomake progress on the reorganizationof     NocO"t
BPDB led to a reorganization study that recommended that BPDB's distribution
operations should be decentralizedto strengthen the interface between BPDB and its
consumers and to better control system losses and accounts receivable. , O k
recommendations pertained to organizational changes and restructuring within BPDB
and to strengthening its operations, particularly in the a m s of planning,    m,
managementinformation, and personnel systems. These recommendations w m agreed
in principle by the government, BPDB, and IDA in 1988, leading to gov-t
approval for the reorganizatian of BPDB, including the establishment of the Dhaka
ElectricitySupplyAuthority(DES A) as a separate entitybyJuly 1,1990.        -
2. Implementationand Performancethrough 1992
                                                                                     Nocotnment
The ESACwas to be disbursed intwo tranches, the fmt at Credit effectiveness, and the
second about a year later. Many actions wen taken in the period prior to Board
presentation, which was considemblydelayed to permitGOB to m e t them. For release
of the second tranche, the governmenthad to meet elevenconditions, relating mainlyto
tariff increases and compliance with existing financial covenants of previous loans
designed to reduce system losses and accounts receivable. There were also nine dated
covenants to be met, Despite only partial compliance with the tranche release
conditions, Bangladesh's critical foreign exchange situationwas usedtojustify a Board
waiver on gas price increasesand tranche release went ahead onschedule mJune 1990.
Inaddition, the data onpower systemlossesandBPDB'saccountsreceivablesubmitted
to the Bankby GOB for 2nd tranchereleaseindicateda higher level ofcompliance than
latertumedoutto be the case, and the completionreport 1J concludedthat the tranche
should nothave beenreleased. The ESAC'experiment' was not repeatedinBangladesh
and insteadofsubsequentSILs were once againtiedtopolicyreforms.
Investment planning: The 1993 PP AR on the ESAC found that in practice, the          Nocomment
PriorityInvestmentProgram (PIF') processhad1ittle impact because of major aunual
deviations between the actual outcome and the PIP, both in terms of the volume of
spending as well as its composition. The PIP process helped to reduce the extent to
which 1ower- priorityprojectsreceived funding, butthe PAR concludedthat overall,
investment planning saw only modest improvement as a result of the ESAC policy
conditionality.
Energypricing: Duringthe ESAC periodfrom FY87 to FY90, weighted average gss          No wmmnt
prices were increasedby 43 percent innominal terms and by 15 percent inreal terms.
As showninTable I,betweenFY87 and FY92, significant increasestook place inreal
gas prices. A calculation of the economic price of gas at that time showed that the
requiredlevelwas Tk.45 per thousand cubic fcet with a 12 percent discount rate.Thus,
the hcrcases achieved in 1987-90 under the ESAC, which raisedthe average gas price
to Tk.44 per thousand cubic feet in 1990, wen sufficient to reach at least the mini"
estimate ofthe economic resourcecost.



Duringthe ESACnegotiationsin1987 andbefonBoardpresentationin1989,, some              Nocommcnt
nstxuchaingofLBPDB'stariffi was canid out. Furtherrestructuring was agreedas a
POWr53 conditionofsecondtranchereleaseFmiliser33 (July 1990). BPDB's
averagetariffwas also raisedby 15percent as a Industrial22 conditionof negotiations,
so8 largeDolzlestic24 part of the ESACpowertarifreforms5 were infact carriedOut
m 1987-88), before BoardPresentation.                                                L

                                                      26                                           Annex B



26.   Inrtltutlood performnce: Implementation of key steps in a dated action plan for           Nocomment
     BPDBs reorganizationand the start of commercial operations by DESA were to be
     conditions of second tranche release, but waivers had to be granted regarding DESA,
     because of major delays that stemmed h n a lack 'of commitment by BPDB's
     managementand heavyresistancebythe unionsto the creationof DESA. Many months
     elapsedbeforeGOB and BPDB were able to take the necessaryactions to enable DESA
     to commence commercial operations inlate 1991,
27.  The opposition of the unions to the reorganizationof BPDB was underestimatedboth NocOmmmt
     by the consultants and by IDA staR The consultants hadproposedthe creation of five
     distribution companies, But the unions were athid that tbis would lead to BPDB's
     dismantlingandto privatization, and a decline intheir influence,Despite the reluctance
     ofBPDB's management(which was aware ofunionopposition), GOB agreedwith IDA
     to the establishmentofDESA as a starting point, It was only much later that the unions
     agreedto DESA's formationunderthe conditionthat DESA would notbeprivatized.As
     pointed out by the PP AR, IDA staff and consultants should have been much more
     realistic about the difficulty of settingup five distributioncompanies and the prospects
      ofenactingsuchfbda"td -tutal            refom underthe quick-disbursing ESAC.
28.  As part of the ESAC program, the govenunent agreed to bring BPDB's energy losses Nocomment
      down to 35 percent for Boardpresentationand to 32 percent for release of the second
      tranche. While the Board condition was met, losses rose again and reached41 percent
      in fiscal years 1991 and 1992. However, the second tranche bad beenreleasedon the
     basis of incorrect (unaudited) data provided to IDA that indicated a level of losses
      belowthe covenanted32 percent.


29.    Under SGDP, agreement was reached with GOB to create gas operating compaaies Nocomment
      with functionalrather than geographicalresponsibilities.Petrobangla would be divested
      of all operational activities and become a holding company, with the government's
     equity in the operating companies, and be responsible for investment planning and
      monitoringas well as sector policy formulation. The operatingcompanies placedunder
      Petrobangla's control were to include a national exploration and drilling company, a
      single national gas production company, a national transmission company, initially
      three regional distriiution companies, a compressed natural gas company and a solid
      minerals company. The boards of directors of the operatingcompanies would include
      Petrobangla representatives but no government representatives; the government's
      controlwould be exercisedthroughitsrepresentationonPetrobanglads ownboard.
30.    It was agreed during the ESAC negotiations that SGDP conditionalities relatedto the       Nocomment
      reorganizationof the PB Group which hadnot beenimplementedwould be includedin
      the ESAC. Further implementation of major gas sector refonns, including legal
      :stablishment of new O C s and appointment of key staff, became conditions of the
      ESAC secondtranche release, but these institutionalmeasureswere only very partially
      inplacewhentrancherelease tookplace.
       3. Performancesince 1992
      PrlvateSeetor Participation inEnergy
31.    Privategas and power productionis a major success story in anener~ysector that has        No comment

      shown disappointing progress in virtually all other respects. The past decade, d
      especially the past five years, has witnessedunprecedentedforeign private investment
      in both gas and electricity production in Bangladesh. These investments bave
       transformed the energy sector: today, over a fifth of gas production and a tlrird of
      clectricitygeneration is by the private sector andthese shares arc likely to grow further.
      Meanwhile, in parallel, the performance of energy parastatals continues to 'bo
      unsatisfactory. This may appear paradoxal, butexperience elsewherell has also shown
      hat substantialprivate investmentcan occur inunreformed energy secton. dcpendins
      *.m-  *-;fir  rniintrvrnnditinns.

                                  27                                   Annex B




offering a fixed tariff to all




                                                   ewes credit for its




                                    sh,leaving only two foreign gas




                                      be undertakenwith IDA, but this

                                                       28                                        Annex B




                                                                                              No comment




      shortages, while a third of BPDB's generationcapacity was unavailabledue to lack of

                                                                                              Nommment




                                                                                              Nocomment




                                                                                              No comment


      shedding. However, there is now a risk that power shortages will reemerge in near
      term Theprogramfor solicitingnewbidsfor independentpowerproducercapacityhas
     runinto delays, while demandcontinues to growrobustly.Near-term prospectsfor &ps
      supply seem to be satisfactory, with new fields expected on stream shortly. However,
      gas transmissionbottlenecksare alreadyapparent.
44.   The coal sector illustratesthe consequencesof ignoring least-cost planning principles.  No com"t

     witha Chineseconsortium-todevelopanundcrgroundmine toproducea ndI& tons of
     coal per year, despite Western donor objections on grounds of high cost and
     misallocationof resources. But coal productionand power generation b m it is still
     severalyearsaway. This projectis expectedto cost over halfa billiondollars to produce
     e firel thatwill beusedto generate electricity at twice the cost ofgas-based generation.
45.   AU these examples        iadicati~eo f plarming shortcomings during the poSt-ESAC
     periodin Bangladesh, which have been compoundedby insufficientor uncoordinated           No
     and delayed investments by the major public sector energy producers, leading to a
     suboptimaland wastefuluse ofscarceresources.
46.  EnergyPriclng
      This reassessmentfoundthat there was limitedprogresswith pricingksuesinboththe          No comment
    gas and electricpower sectors during the past decade. For asubstdal p~riodinthe
     199Os, energy prices actually declinedinrealtcrms.
47.  GasPricingandFinances
      Improvementsinthe real level of gas prices inthe early 1990s(see para. 24) wcn not      Nocomment
     sustained, because of the M q u e n c y of price increases, as can be seen from Table 2.
     The near five-year freeze in gas prices from early 1994 to late 1998 eroded their real
     value by a quarter. 19 However, prices have climbed sharply since 2000 inboth real
     ( T h ) andU.S. dollat termsto wipe Out the declinesofthe mid-1990S. Since 1990,the
     BangladeshCPI has risenby about70percentintotal, while average gas prices arc now
     about90 percentabovetheir nominal 1990level.

                                                          29                                          Annex B

-Nolaion
48.               wuhkenduriugthe ESAC(or subaquently), to dtarelativegaspricesin
       orderto reducetbeextent ofsubsidiwto thepowerrad tsailizcr sectors) or to dormtic          Nocomment
       usersof gas. Only 4 percentofhowholdshave access to domestic gas FY 90 44 1.36
        supply and benefit from a subsidy May 1992 50 1.28 estimated at nearlyTk.3 billion
-kcroseneor
        (over March 1994 55 1.37 USSSO million) annually The vast majority, who use
                    LPGfor cooking, receivenosubsidyatall.
49.     A phasedtransitionto a new gas pricing system was agreed with the government in As per agreement
        ~   l 2003 a~part of the refomprogramsupportedby the single-tranche Development ma&
                y                                                                                            between
        Support Credit disbursed upon effectiveness in June 2003. It M potentially a major WorId Bank and
       breakthrough in that it links the wellhead price of P m baagia's own gas to the GOB                   formula
       international oil price and is designed to allow the operating companies to retain a for fixation of
       higherproportionof gross
       for the ESAC in December 2003, the government had fallen behind in the agreed been approvedha$
                                   ~VCLIUCS.   However, at the tkae of the reassessmentmission gas       price
                                                                                                                   by
       timetable for its introduction. It is too early to gauge ifthis reform is likely to succeed GOB.
       after almost 20yean ofunsuccessfulattemptsto rationalizegaspricinginBangladesh.            Accordingly         a
                                                                                                   SRO/Gazzete
                                                                                                  Notification
                                                                                                   have       already
                                                                                                  been issued vide
                                                                                                  No. @( 9Tt-
                                                                                                   >)M3000
                                                                                                  /uoc   0m(we)a-oh-
                                                                                                   aoooa; I        AS
                                                                                                   stated    in    the
                                                                                                  pricing formula,
                                                                                                   a proposal for
                                                                                                   fixation of gas
                                                                                                   price is in the
                                                                                                  process of active
                                                                                                   consideration by
                                                                                                   GOB,
50.     The only step to reducethe governmentshanofgross gasrevenuesandto                          Present 55% GOB
       increasethe operatingmarginsofthe gas companies was in1994,whenexcisedutieson               marginon gasprice
       gas wen cut from 62 percent to 55 percent. Eventhough the government had agreed             consist           of
       with IDA to annuallyreview the operatingmarginsof the gas companies (as partof the          supplementary duty
       conditionsofthe GIDP loanin 1985), no Wer actionwas takento increase them. The              and VAT in the
       total fiscaltake fiom the gas sector at the end of the 1990swas an excessivelyhigh65        new         system

       percentof gross revenues. Ithas not yet beenreduced. All Bank efforts to convincethe        supplmtary duty
                                                                                                   onper unitofgas is
       govenunent that permitting greater resources to remain in the sector will allow for fixed and VAT will
       better maintenance and new investment have been incffectivc. The govemment be on 15% As a
       continues to treat the gas sector as a 'cash cow' whichcanbe milked with little concern    m l t GOB margin
       for the future developmentor sustainabilityofthe industry.                                 will     not      be
                                                                                                   incruucd against
                                                                                                   increase volume of
                                                                                                  SalCS            for

                                                                                                  duty. This is also of
                                                                                                  WPl-tarY
                                                                                                                     in
                                                                                                   the   process
                                                                                                  approval.

S I .  Electric& M i n g andFinmclal Pcrforrnance
        Electricitytariffi saw a modestincreaseover the FY87 -92 periodthat was                   No comment
       cxamined-bythe originalOED performanceassessment.Siflcant               progress was also
       achievedinreformingthe structureoftariffs. The numberofunitsofpower available to
       residentialconsumers at heavily subsidizedrates was reduced, (with the exception of
       the rural electrificationcooperatives), and incentives to reduce consumption during
       peakh o w (e+, time-of-daytariffs) w n introducedfor BPDB'smajor non-residential
       consu",     However, the progresswas padally revcrsed because the structure of the
       residential tariff blocks was altered in a regressive manner. In 1996, the f h t
       (subsidized) block was increased &om 200 kWh to 300 LWmonth, contrary to
       economic logic, whichwouldhave ledto a reductioninthe size ofthe initialblock(see
       Annex table D).
                                                                                              ud(

                                                     30                                      Annex B



   Inreality,ifterthe ESACperformancemseament waa written, the tariffStructurew8a
  advenety modified, tariffs remained
  IDA were not met, So, in tmns of power sector fiaances,and post-ESAC period
                                                for five y e u ~ Anancid C               NoCoRnrcnt
                                                                              O    V with
                                                                                       ~
                                                                the
  reversals rather than progress. Electricity tarinrs charged by BPDB and DESAZO
  remainedunchangedfrom 1991 to 1996, eventhoughtheir 1991level was substantially
  below cost recovery.There havebecnsmall annualincreasessince 1997, so the increase
  in average revenue per Unit for BPDB fiom Tk 190kWh inFY 92-93 to Tk. 2.5
  FY02-03 isabout30 percentintotal, However, during thc same period,the Bangladesh
  consumer price bdex rose by over 50 percent, clearly indicating that red electn'.city
  prices have fallen substantially. In U.S. dollar tenas, BPDB is earniag only about 4.5
  centa/kwh on average, which is less revenue per unit than 10 or I S years ago when it
  was averaging 5.5-6.5 cents/kwh Fortunately, BPDB's operations and maintenance
  costs have also fallen as a result of the rising proportion of low-cost generation from
  independentpowerproducersinBPDB's generationmix.
   DESA hasfared evenworse: its average revenuebarely increasedinnominal
  Taka tams duringthepastdecade. Itwas Tk+2,4/kwhmFY92-93 andhadonlyrisento              No comment

  Tk. 2.S/kWh inFYO2-03. At this level, itcannot evencover its averagesupply costsof
  aboutTk. 3/k Who
   Major subsidies to householdconsumers arc still prevalent today, while industrialand
  commercial consumers continue to be overcharged in comparison to their long-run        Nocommmt
  marginalsupply cost (see tariff schedule inAnnex, D).The size of the first residential
  tariff block has recently been reduced from 300 kWmonth to IOOkWh, which is a
  positivestep, but the next tariffblock (100-400 kwh) continues to be subsidized!] The
  bulk tarBto the RuralElectrificationBoardfrom BPDB and DESA aIs0containsa
  subsidy, even though retail tariffs in rural areas are about 30 percent higher than in
  urbanareas.
  BPDB has almostnevermet its financialcovenants with IDA, even thoughthese
  were modified in 199322 to emphasize revenue collection and energy loss reduction      Noconmmt
  rather than an unattainable 8 percent return on revalued assets. Despite rapid annual
  sales growth of about 10 percent, BPDB and DESA operated at a loss though the
  1990~~  essentially due to inadequate taxiffs and high system losses. In FY02 their
  combinednet losseswere US$110 million.23
   Performanceinreducingpowersystemlosseshas improvedslowly over the past
  decade. Combined (BPDB+DESA 24) energy losses have fallen by about I pcrcent           No comment
  mually. More noteworthy is the significant progress achieved of late: total power
IIthepast
  sector losses IBPDB+DESA+Runrl Electrification Board) have bccn brought down in
           three      &om35percentofgenerationto about30percenttoday.-
  MSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
  InstitutionalIssuesinthe GM Sector
  Reorganizationof the gas sector along the lines fmt envisagedunda SGDP and then
  ESAC(paras 29-30) has neverbeenfully implemented. Local vestedinterests
  prevented the merger of the two gas producing companies into one. The transmission
  company GTCL, waa set up in 1993, but still docs not own all the high-pres~mgas
.pipelinesinBangladesh, due to resistance to the pipeline transfersfrom the staff of the
  other operatingcompanies.
  The govement continucdto be directly represented on the boar& of the opcrating
  companies until2003 anddecisionsrelatingto pricing, operatingand                       No mmment
  development budgets, organizationalsetup, award of Contracts, and even staffig and
  traininghave been subject to government as well as Petrobanglaapproval. All matten
  of any importanceare still ultimatelydecidedby the government. The f ong-standing
  pmblem of insufficient autonomy for operating companies has not eased to any
  significant extent during the past decade. Unsurprisingly, neither Petrobanglonor the
  government have beenkcento reduce their tight control over these entitiesandpressUn
  from donors in this direction has been to no avail. A Petrobangla-sppoinad local
  consultant is expected to report sometime in 2004 on the inStitUtiona1 relationships
  between?he operating companies, Petrobarrgla, and the Ministryof Energy andM b e d
  Resources.                                                                          *

                                                        31                                            Annex B

-
59.    Ovathep u t 15 yean, many developiagcouatrieshave taken steps t0 improve the
       pcrfomnnca of their oil md gas sectors, especially though opening the secton to         Nocomment
       increased competition (including fiom foreign companies), stronger regulrtory
       authorities operating separately h m any state ownership inmts, abolition of state
-      monopolies, and the privatization of state compauies, often accompanied by (or
     precededby) upstreamanddownstrum restructuring.
60.    In Bangladesh, the only departure from an entirely state-run gassector has been the
      involvement of internationalcompanies in upstream activities (exploration and related     Noconunent
       development and production). The Bank's gas projects have had little @act on the
       institutionaldevelopmcntof the state-owned sector entitiesinBangladesh. There has
       been little systemic reform since the time the SGDP was appraised 20 years ago and
-that  Bangladeshdoes not yet have modern and well-run gas enterprises in the public sector
           can contnitc to the efficient utilizationofits resources.
61.    InrtitutlosalIssuesInthe Power Sector
        Because of the repeated delays in DESA's start-up, IDA suspended disbursements          Nocomment
       under the 16 Towns Power Distribution Project in September 1991 (which includeda
       covenant to the effect that DESA would start commercial operations in mid-1990). It
--~ovemnun!approved
       eventually took three years (from late 1988 to February 1992) between the time the
                               the creation of DES A and the timc DESA's organhtional
       structurewas &ctioned and redeploymentandrecruitmentofstaff started
62.    Disbursementsunder the 16 Towns PowaDistributionProject minedsuspended for
       17 months 26. Thereafter the project was restructured and the financial covenants        No comment
      altered. Butno component for the newly createdDESA was included in the project,
      presumably because it was felt that DESA's needs were being met by the Asian
      DevelopmentBank and U.K.bilateralassistance.
       However, DESA started life with severalmajorbmdicaps. I&       managementcamc from          ~~




      the samc pool as BPDB since new senior staff wen not hired fkom outside. It also          Nocomment
      inheritedb esame labor problemsthat hadplaguedBPDB.The fact that itwas set upas
      an "authority" rather than as a company meant that it was saddled with the same
      bureaucratic constraintsas BPDB and inheritedstrong, politicized unions and a poorly
      performingworkforce that couldnoteasilybe dismissed.
       Fu~themon,the creation of DES A was in no sense a solution to the deepseated
      problemo fpoor corporate governance and weak managementinthe power distribution           No comment
      business. The highlevel of illegal COMCC~~O~Sand' unrecordedconsumption, combined
      with poor revenue colIcction were (and still arc) the Achilles' heel of the entire power
      sector. There is no indication inthe Bank documents for the ESAC as to how this was
      to be tackled.
      The Bank's major role in the decision to create DESA as part of the ESAC
      conditionality behooved it to assist m building the new institution. Yet in the past     Nocomment
      decade, the Bank has consciouslystayed away from involvement with DESA and has
      notprovideditwith MY institutionalor capacitybuildingassistance.However, it should
      have been clear that there could be no comprehensive improvements in sector
     performance by ignoring such a large segment of the market      - DESA accounted     for a
      third of total system peak demand in 1992.A decade later the DESA nshare had
     risento 42 percent ofpeak demandandnet energy sales, Inthe absence ofthe Bank,
     DESA has relied mainly on funding and advice fiomthe AsianDevelopment Bank NO
      twinning arrangement with a foreign utilitywaa put in place28 for capacity building.
     Non-technicallossesremainedunacceptablyhighthroughoutthe post-ESAC decade.
66.    DESA has also suffered frominadequatemanagementleadership,havinghad
     about 10 chaixmcnsince it started operationsin 1992, almost one a year. Today, DESA       Nocomment
      is burdened with su~plusstaff at a time when its own franchise area is shrinking. When
     DESCO was created in 1998, (as part of policy reformspursuedby the ADB) and took
     over distribution zones from DESA, it did not take any of the former DESA staff, but
     hired afiesh. In essence, part of the commercial and operational problems thar had
     aflicted BP DB before the creation of DESA had simp& been shifted to a new mti@,
     which had not been given theauthority, the incentives, or the meam of solvingthem.
                                                                                           ub

                                                         32                                         Annex B



      4. Outcomeand Assessment
67.   OutCoIne
      This reassessment concludes that the expected benefits did not materialize to any
      significantextent inthe aftermathofthe ESAC, as indicatedbelow:
                .More    rational patterns of energy demand: Modest progress was recorded in
                introducingsome time-of-day pricingbut distortionsinbothgas and electricity
                tariff structures and excessive cross subsidies of residential consumers were
                not elkninated.
                h m ~ v e dinvestment planning:was Planning fell out of favor during the 1990s In
                many counbies and                      no exception. Them am no m t kmg-tsrm
                Invcrsbnent plana for power or gas development but even If them ware, better phning
                could not haw made up for the ahtoomlngs In publicse&or management dedalon-
                making and pmjectlmplementatlonInthe enwsector as a whole.
                 Improved financial viabilityfor energy sector entities: For gas, ESAC price
                increases were not sustainedinreal terms during most of the 199Os, although
                they have risen sharply m the last 2-3 years. Operatingcompany margins are
                still much too low and the finances of the Petrobangla group of companies
                remain weak. Initial ESAC gains in electricity pricing have been eroded by
                inflationandthey arenowlower inrealterms thana decade ago. BPDBlDESA
                consistentlymade large financial losses during the 1990s. However, there arc
                now indications of real progress in improved revenue collections and energy
                loss reduction since 2000.
                Mobilization of additional resourcesfor the budget: Low tariffs, high losses,
                andpoor revenue collectioninthe power sector meanthat it is a burden, not a
                net contributor to the ~ t i 0 budget. Unpaid debt service to the government
                                                   ~ 1
                by BPDB on foreign loans amounts to USSl billion (Tk.56 billion) and the
                combined sectoral operating loss inFYO2 was nearly Tk. 8 billion. The gas
                sector has always been a substantial contributor to governmentrevenues, but
                cannot generatemore resourcesinrelative terms since the governmentalready
                takes about 65 percentof gross gas sector revenues. However, expandingsales
                and a higher share of "equity"gas fiom productionsharing contracts will lead
                to higherrevenuesfor the governmentinabsoluteterms.
                Removal of institutional constrain@: As described in paras 57-60, above,
                institutional reforms envisaged as part of the ESAC were either undertaken
                only partially (the Petrobangla reorganization), or failed to lead to better




     the time the ESAC was appraised, the program's over-ambitious scope, complexity and
     unrealistic timeframe should have been taken into consideration. Insufficient attention
                    *I.-
     I--- -..:A *n       In=~lwrlnf nwnershio by the borrower. The Bank's advice to create
                                                                                                     I

                                                        33                                         Annex B


         DESA was probably erroneous. Fiually,urecognizedby the completion nport for thc
         project, the second tranche C O Y ~ ~ ~wereMnot thoroughly scrutinized for compliance
                                                 ~ O
         and the tranche was releasedprematurely.For these WOM,        Bankperformanceisrated
-BorrowerPerformance
         as unsatisfactory.

74.      Codtment to the goals of the M A C on the part of the government and the energy          qo COmmCnt
         sector entities was low, The government did not meet a significant number of ESAC
         second tranche conditions. Data submittedto the Bank showing reductions inBPDB's
         accountsreceivable and system lossesnecessary for the lattcrtuned outto bemoncous
         and the real figures were significantly wone. Reversalofprogresson energy pricingin
         the post-ESAC periodby a fiveyear freeze on tariff increases, aggravated the already
-poor          Gnances of the sector. For these reasons, borrower p c r f o m is assessed as
         UnsatisfactO~.
75.      CONCLUSIONS _ ~ _ -_
                 ~
         It is significantas well as soberingto notethat the bulkofthe energysector               Nocomment
         issues, problems and policy nconnncndations &om the 1980s recurred in the 1990s
         andanstill highonthe agenda today.Thelistofunfhishedreforrmislengthyand
-judging          by the slow progress of the past two decades, they are likely to take another
         decade or two to implement.
76.      The lack of a clearly articulated energy sector development strategy to rapidly extend
         access to gas and electricity nationwide(but mostparticularlyin the westernhalfo f       No comment
         Bangladesh) is a regrettable omissioninBangladesh'sdevelopmental goals. Its absence
         has dso hindered progress toward accelerated access to modem energy for
         Bangladeshisby allowing amtion to be divertedto the option of gas exportsto India,
         despitethe political difficultiesinvolved
77.       Nevertheless, the Bangladeshi energy sector taken os a whole is inmuchbetter sbape
         than a decade ago, despite major unresolved problems in its parastad entities.           No comment
         Shortageshave beengreatlyreduced, access to electricity has increasedsubstantially in
        'rural areas29 and the private sector plays an importantand growing role inthe energy
         supplybusiness,Bangladesh'ssuccessll experience with independentpowerproducers
         (para 35) deserves more i n t ~ r ~ ~ tcoverage, parb',cuarly among the Bank's other
                                                  i 0 ~ 1
         clients. Contraryto expectations in the miate 199Os, the participationof the private
         sector in energy has neither acted as a catalyst for r e f o m among energy parastatds,
         nor led to an unsustainable financial crisis in the Bangladesh energy sector (which in
         turn could have triggered reform). This finding is fully consistent with the recent
         OED/OEG/OEU study on private participation in electricity that concluded 'good
-outcoms'.
         individual private sector project outcomes carmot alone ensure good sector-level

78.    1 5. LessonsLearned                                                                       Nocomment
         The main lessons that can be drawn fiom the Bangladesh ESAC and subsequent
       1 developmentsinthe energy scctor are givenbelow. They are consistent with experience
         fromenergy sector operationsinother countries.
       I          SECALs     (IIC  a poor choice of lending instrument for long-gestation
                  institutionalreforms in the energy sector because of the budgetaryhalanceof
                  paymentsinrperativesto disburse funds quickly and the difficulty of obtaining
                  ownershipby implementingagenciesof reformsinthe absence ofany targeted
       ~          fundingto them(paras 15 &22);
                  Creating new entities such as DESA or GTCL is not a solutionto deep-seated
                  problems of corporate governance and managerial weakness that plague the
                  energy sector (para 64); and
                  The Bank shouldnot push for the creationof new entities unless it is willing to
    I             cormnit to assistingsuchbodies as arc bornout ofBank-financed reforms (para
                                     -
                  65).

