Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10700
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1999-BD)
JUNE 5, 1992
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -   Taka (Tk)
Tk 1.00         -   USS 0.0310 (as of January 1, 1989)
-   USS 0.0279 (as of July 1, 1991)
USS1.00         -   32.27 (as of January 1, 1989)
_   35.79 (as of July 1, 1991)
WE7GLTS AND MHASURES
kV    -   Rilovolt (Thousand 'tults)
kWh   -   Kilowatt hour (- 860.42 Kilocalortie)
btu   -   British Thermal Unit (- 0252 Kilooalories)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -       Asian Development Bank
APPI              Action Plan for Performance Improvem.nv
B5        -       Bangladesh Bank
BESWG     -       Bangladesh Energy Sector Working Group
BCFCL     -       Bangladesh Gas Fieids Company Limited
BOSL      -       Bakhrabad Gas Systems Limited
BOCMC     -       Bangladesh Oil, Gas and Minerals Corporatiou
(renamed Petrobangla in 1989)
BPC       -       Bangladeh Petroleum Corporation
BPDB              Bangladesh Power Devclopment Board
BST       -       Bulk Supply Tariff
DESA      -       Dhaka Electric Supply Authority
DCA       -       Development Credit Agreement
ERL       -       Eastern Refinery Limited
ESAP      -       Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
ESAC              Energy Sector Adjustment Credit
ESSPW             Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
ESU       -       Electric Supply Unit
GDP       -       Gross Domestic Product
GOB               Government of Bangladesh
IPC       -       Import Program Credit
ICTDC     -       Jalalabod Gas Transmission and Distribution Company
KfW               Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (3ermany)
LPG       -       Liquefied Petroleum Gas (or bottled gas)
LRMC              Long-Run Marginal Cost
HiS       -       Management Information System
EMHR      _       Hinistry of Energy and Mineral Rzeourceo
OC        -       Operating Company
ODA       -       Overseas Development Administration (UK)
ORGC      -       Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PBS       -       Rural Electrification Cooperative (Palli Bidyut
Samity)
PCR       -       Project Completion Report
piP       -       Priority Investment Program
PSMP      -       Power Sysctm Master Plan
REB       -       Rural glectrificacion Board
lOR       -       Rate of Return
SAP       ,       Structural Adjustment Facility
SEM       -       Secondary Exchange Harket
SoCL      -       Sylbet Gas Fields Limited
SITC      -       Standard International Trade Classification
SLA       -       Subsidiary Loan ASreement
SOe       -       Statement of Expenditure
vks       -       Staff Weeks
T&        -       Technical Assistance
TGTDC     -       Titas Gas Transmisaion and Distribution Company
UNDP      -       United Nations Development Programme
USAID     -       United States Agency for International Development
REFERENCE TO OTHER IDA CREDITS
Credit   Fitcal
go      TYear                   Proiect Nam
1091      1981      Bekhrabad Gas Development Project (Bakhrabad Gas)
1402      1984      Petroleum Exploration Promotion (Petroleum Exploration)
1586      1985      Second Gas Development (Second Gas)
1633      1986      Rural Electrification II (RE-I)
1648      1986      Power Trarsmiseion & Distribution (Power Trans/Diet)
1749      1987      Refinery Modification & LPG Recovery
& Distribution (Refinery Modification)
1816      1987      Industrial Sector Credit (ISC)
1942      1988      Industrial Energy Efficiency (Energy Efficiency)
1999      1989      Energy Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC)
2016      1989      Pover Distribution (16 Towns)
2129      1990      Rural Electrification III (RE-Ill)
2152      1990      Financial Sector Adjuscment Credit (FSC)
2263      1991      LPC Transport and Distribution (LPC)
FISCALYE
July,  to June 30



FOR OFMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Difectoi.Central
Operaitts Evaluation
June 5, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Bangladesh Energy Sector Adjustment
Credit (Credit l999-BD)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Bangladesh
Energy Sector Adjustment Credit (Credit 1999-BD)" prepared by the South Asia
Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit
of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRgl CT CMpLETToN REPOR;T
BANGLADESH
-NERGY SECTOR ADJUSTnENT CREDIT
(C.EDI   1999-BD)   -
Table of Coriteals
PaAe No.
Preface                                          .   .                            .  l
Evaluation Sulary        .                ..
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  Country Context.                        s .     0 .     .. . .
Backg.vound  .                                                          1. . . . ...  . 
Recent Economic Develo)pments           .                               1
Bank Group Strategy . . . . .  .                                        3
B.  Energy Sector Adjustment Credit   . .  . . .              . .  . . .  . 4
Origin and Objectives...                                    . . . . . 4
Results of Key Actions under the ESAC ..  . . . . . . 5
Energy Resource Development and Investment .            .            5
Priority Investment Program..                                      6
Long-term Least-cost Development Plans... . . .  7
Energy Pricing and Demand Management  ... .         .  .    . . . . . .    . 9
Electricity               ...10
Natural Gas                                                       11. . . .   .. . .
Petroluum Products           ...                          .   12
Institutional Performance and Development    .       .    .13
BPDB's Performance.   .                                  .  . 13
Petrobangla's Perfotmance..   .  16
Overall Evaluation    ..19
Implementation Experience                .             .  .         19
ESAC Objectives and Conditionality.. . . . . .  . .  20
Performance of the Government and IDA...... . . . . . .  22
Other Aspects of the Credit. . . ..   .  24
Use of Credit Proceeds, Procurement, Disbursement, Audit  . .  24
Cofinancing Suppor: for the ESAC              . . .  .     .    .    26
C.  Main Lessons Learned  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......    .  27
PART IiZ   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Pover Subsector .....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   30
Natural Resources Subsector .                  . .32
PART I.l:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:  Basic Data Sheet  . . . .. . . .  .  34
Annex 1:  ESAC Conditions and Actions Taken . . . . . . . . . .  35
Attachment: Cofinanciers' Comments.. . 55
This documenLt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PPOJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BAUlGLAiESH
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1999-BD)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Energy Sector Adjustment
Credit (ESAC) in Bangladesh, for which Credit 1999-BD in the amount of SDR
137.0 million was approved on April 11; 1989; this was supplemented by an
amount of SDR 1.8 million, from Bangladesh's allocation of the FY90 IDA
Reflows, approved in October 1989. The Credit was fully disbursed and closed
on July 3, 1990.
In addition to indirect cofinancing support in the form of technical assis-
tance provided by UNDP and various bilateral donors during ESAC preparation
and implementation, KfW and OECF have respectively decided to provide, through
parallel financing under terms and conditions similar to those for the ESAC, a
grant of DM 26 million and a loan of Yen 3.8 billion to finance general
imports. Neither agreement was signed prior to IDA's approval of the second
(and final) tranche release. Due to the subsequent deterioration in the power
subsector's performance, the release of funds under both agreements was
withheld pending Government action to address the subsector's problems and
improvements in the subsector's performance.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations Division,
Country Department 1, Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts
I and III) and the Borrower (Part II). Cofinanciers provided comments on the
PCR (Attachment).
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alIa, on the President's Report (No.
P-4549-BD) prepared for Credit approval, President's Memorandum to the Board
(No. IDA/R90-91) prepared at the time of tILe second tranche release,
Development Credit Agreement, mission aide memoires, supervisi:.± reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
ENtERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1299-BD)
EVALUATION S%HMARY
Ob iectives
i.      The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) accorded high priority to the energy
sector's development in its Third Five Year Plan (FY86-90). Given its severe
resource limitations and persistent balance of payments constraints, Bangladesh
needs an efficient energy sector to promote economic growth, reduce foreign
exchange outlays on energy imports and mobilize resources for sector entities and
the Budget (para. 10). The primary objectives of the Energy Sector Adjustment
Credit (ESAC) were to assist GOB in the extension and refinement of its energy
policy and to strengthen sector institutions. Efforts were focused in three
areas: (a) energy resource development and investment, (b) energy pricing and
demand management, and (c) institutional performance and development (para. 12).
Implementation Experience
ii.     Implementation of the ESAC was mixed--satisfactory progress was made in
investment planning and energy pricing, while progress in institutional
strengthening was disappointing. During Credit preparation and negotiation,
GOB's Bangladesh Energy Sector Working Group (BESWG) performed quite well in
taking an integrated approach to developing and beginning to implement an energy
sector reform program. IDA's large multi-sectoral ESAC team worked closely with
the BESWG and other donors in preparing the program. However, Board presentation
of the ESAC was delayed more than one and a half years because of GOB's
difficulty in meeting the Board presentation conditions, particularly those
concerning the energy sector entities' financial performance. In this period,
GOB's attention shifted to individual conditions under the Credit and the actions
needed to bring GOB into compliance; this attitude tended to prevail throughout
Credit implementation. IDA staff continued to provide considerable assistance to
the sector entities in implementing the reform program, through ESAC missions and
in conjunction with other power and petroleum missions.
iii.    Since the second tranche was r2leased in June 1990, GOB has generally
followed through with the investment planning and energy priuing reforms;
progress on the institutional front, however, has not been sustained,
particularly in the case of the Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB), due in
large part to a lack of government and implementing entity commitment. IDA has
continued to follow up actions initiated under the ESAC in the context of sector
work and traditional investment projects; new lending for power has been
suspended pending GOB's taking concrete actions to address BPDB's problems.
Donor coordination throughout the process has been excellent, beginning with IDA-
chaired coordination meetings during the preappraisal/appraisal missions.
(paras. 49-51, 55-60)
Results
iv.     The ESAC has assisted GOB in the extension and refinement of its energy
policy, thus helping tc facilitate GOB's overall adjustment effort and to
establish a policy framework for further lending for specific energy investments
(paras. 52-53).



- 4il -
v.      Investment Plannina.  Each year since FY88, GOB has prepared, reviewed
with IDA and implemented a three-year rolling p=iority investment program (PIP)
for t..e c.nergy sector, together with a financing plan; annual review of the PIP
has become a regular feature of IDA's involvement in the sector. Long-term
lea& -cosC development plans *havs been prepared for the power and gas subsectors.
The iinal report of the feasibility study for the Barapukuria coal deposit has
been completed; although the report is still ui:der review, it appears that
de-elopment of the deposit is unlikely te be viable for the foreseeable future.
(paras.14-23)
vi.     Energv Pricing.  Pricing policy reforms implemented under the ESAC have
had a considerable impact on the economic efficiency, resource mobilization and
equity concerns raised during Credit preparation. During 1987-90 gas prices were
increased on average by about 16Z p.a. In nominal terms, as against 9Z p.a.
domestic inflation. Gas prices for all consumer groups -.re now at/above
presently available estimates of the economic cost of supply (including a
depletion premium). Over the same period, the average tariff rate of BPDB has
been increased about 91 p.a. on average and that of the rural electrification
cooperatives (PBSs) about _3Z p.a.  Average revenues from electricity sales now
reflect 65-70C of the estimated long-run marginal cost of supplying power. In
addition, the program to reform power tariff structures agreed under the ESAC has
been successfully implemented, particularly in BPDB's case. Because of its
excessive system losses, poor collections and high accounts receivable, however,
BPDB remains unable to achieve an adequate rate of raturn or to self-finance a
reasonable portion of its investment program. A system of individual Performance
Agreements has been developed for monitoring the performance of operating PBSs.
GOB responded promptly to the Gulf crisis with a cumulative increase in petroleum
product prices of about 85X between August and October 1990; GOB's present plans
are to ma4.ntain the high prices for resource mobilization purposes. (paras.24-32)
vii.    Institutional Strengthening.  Under the ESAC, institutional reform and
development programs were agreed for two of the main energy sector entities, with
a view to enhancing their planning, management, operational efficiency and
financial viability. The primary thrust of the BPDB reorganization was
decentralization of BPDB's distribution function to strengthen the interface
between BPDB and its consumers to better control system losses and accounts
receivable and improve collections. Thus far, actions to reorganize BPDB havo
been limited mainly to the formalities nece,sary for implementation, but few
operational changes have actually been effected. For example, Dhaka Electric
Supply Authority commenced operation on October 1, 1991 (more than a year behind
schedule) but many key actions pertaining to its full commercial operation,
including GOB's sanctioning of its organizational structure, are still
outstanding; and BPDB's financial performance, although previously reported as
improving, continues to be dismal (system losses 411 for FY91 and accounts
receivable 6.3 months' billings in June 1991) (paras. 34-41). In the case of the
gas subsector, the structure of the Bangladesh Oil, Gas and Minerals Corporation
has been changed, making it a h.lding company; but further adjustmeats are
necessary to operationalize the change and achieve the objective of operational
independence and commercial operations for its operating companies. On the
financial front, GOB has significant'y increased the gas companies' share of
sales revenues, enabling some of thjm to self-finance a reasonable portion of
their investment programs; excessive debt:Iequity ratios and accounts receivable
well above 3 months continue to be problems for several of the companies
(paras. 42-48).
Sustainability
viii.   The ESAC has helped to bring about a more coordinated and integrated
approach to the energy sector's development in Bangladesh--among IDA staff,



- iv -
between IDA and other donors and, to a lesser extent, within GOD. This alone
should hrlp to ensure the sustainability of the ESAC's achievements. In most
areas, follow-up actions have been identified in the context of ongoing and
future sector work and lending operations (traditional projects in the near term
and possibly sactor investment credits in the longer term); follow-through will
be important in maximizing the benefits of the ESAC. In the institutional
atrengthening area, the ESAC has fallen faL short of its objectives.  Progress
will continue to se 3low and results unsustainaole unless the full commitment of
GOB and the implemtenting entitits to the proposed reforms is obtained and the
general public and corncerned am?loyeee are equally convinced of the benefita.
Findings and Lessons Learned
isc.    The main findings/lessons learned under the ESAC (paraa. 67-74) include:
* InsufCicient government/implementing entity commitment was a constraint
on all asw cts of the ESAC's institutional strengthening component.
Thorough efforts are needed from the beginning to build and test
commitment at both the political and technical levels, such that the
Government/implementing entities own, understand and accept the proposes
reforms/implementation plans, can educate the public and concerned
employees accordingly, and are willing to bring in the requisite
technical assistance to operationalize the reform objectives.
_ Use of a lending instrument with a longer disbursement timeframe (e.g., a
slow-disbursing adjustment operation, sector investment credit or
combination) might have been better suited to the nature of reforms
sought under the ESAC; allocation of at least a part of the Credit
proceeds to energy-related investments might have led to greater sectoral
commitment.
* Action plans are an important means for effecting institutional change in
Bangladesh as well as other developing countries. However, they require
attention to detail in design and close monitoring of implementation, and
therefore tend to be highly staff-intensive.
* Retaining a formal working group (e.g., the BESWG) throughout Credit
implementation might have helped GOB to maintain its momentum for the
energy sector reform program and thus improved the effectiveness of
implementation. IDA's having a task manager for the petroleum subsector
might have resulted in more effective implementatinn of gas subsector
reforms.
* GOB's and IDA's monitoring of the use of Credit proceeds, including
procurement under the ESAC, was inadequate; this has resulted in the
identification of several measures to be taken under ongoing/future
adjustment operations to ensure GOB's/IDA's compliance with Bank
procedures (paras. 61-64). Post-disbursement reviews should be a regular
part of tranche release missions.
* The ESAC has been successful in helping to establish a policy framework
as a basis for IDA's lending for specific energy investments. Although
this has not meant that investment operations go ahead without any
policy-related conditionality, it has meant they have a common starting
point, agreed with GOB, from which to build further conditionality.
* The ESAC has been an effective vehicle for enhancing donor coordination
in the energy sector.



PROIECT COMPLETION  FROQ
BANGLADESH
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT l999-BD)
PART I: PROJECT hEVIEW FROM THE BANKR'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Country Context
Background
1. Bangladesh is one of the poorest countries in the world, w:ith a per-
capita income of about US$180. Its limited stock of natural resoure-^ large
population (estimated at 113 million in 1990, with an average densit-    780
persons per square kilometer), and a continued high population growth rate
(2.4X p.a.) have contributed to widespread poverty. In addition, Bangladesh
is prone to a range of natural disasters. In the past four years, the country
has been ravaged by two major floods and two cyclones.
2.   The Bangladesh economy is characterized by a number of structural
constraints which policymakers have tried to address over the past two
decades:
* The economy is heavily dependent on agriculture (mainly foodgrains and
jute) for nearly half of GDP a>' three-quarters of employment.
* Bangladesh's labor force lacks the educatioa., health and nutrition
necessary to make the transition to faster industrial and export growth.
* The economy is characterized by a low rate of national savings and a
large structural external payments gap.
* Other constraints include poor infrastructure, inefficient public enter-
prises, and a weak public administration and domestic financial system.
Recent Economic Developments
3.    Despite these constraints on development, Bangladesh made significant
economic progress in the early to mid-1980s. The Government of Bangladesh
(GOB) carried out a series of stabilization programs to correct macroeconomic
imbalances that emerged following the second oil shock. Although the programs
were successful, gross investment declinad substantially over this period,
partly because public investment projects in most sectors were substantially
underfunded and implementation was adversely affected. At the same time, the
financial sector became irncreasingly insolvent, reflecting a rapid expansion
of private sector credit and very poor loan recovery performance. Finally,
the performance of public enterprises deteriorated rapidly after FY82, due
largely to a slowdown in the privatization program and limited autonomy given
to enterprises to adjust their output prices or control labor costs through
limiting wage adjustments and reducing the staffing of lower skilled workers.



-2-
4.    To address the;.e and other structural problems, GOB undertook a program
of structural reform that was supported by a three-year Structural Adjustment
Facility (SAF) covering the period FY87-89 as well as by IDA adjustment
lending (in the industry and energy sectors).  The structural reform program
was successful in maintaining macroeconomic balances and increasing
international reserves to an all-time high. However, real GDP growth during
Fi87-89 averaged only 3X annually while the share of investment in GDP fell
further. This relatively slow e".oaomic growth was in part attributable to two
floods and a cyclone which ravaged Bangladesh during FY88-89 and affected both
the rice and jute crops. In addition, overly cautious fiscal management led
to unnecessarily large cutbacks in public investment in both FY88 and FY89,
exacerbating the depressive effects of the floods on the economy. On the
positive side, GOB began implementing policies (particularly   liberalizing
minor irrigation equipment distribution) which benefitted agricultural
production.
5.    In FY90, aided by good weather, GDP grew by about 5.8%.  Despite this
recovery, clear signs of a potentially serious deterioration in the macro-
economic situation emerged in early FY90. The fiscal and monetary situation
weakened significantly as GOB swung from an overly conservative to a highly
expansionary stance. The expansionary pressures, coinciding with the economic
recovery and an appreciation of the taka in real terms, also led to a surge in
imports. Consequently, foreign exchange reserves fell sharply to the
equivalent of only 1.5 months of imports.
6.    Recognizing this deterioration, GOB initiated a short-term program in
March 1990 to stabilize the economic situation by tightening fiscal and
monetary policy and resuming the policy of flexible exchange rate management.
The short-term stabilization program paved the way for GOB to successfully
negotiate an Extended SAF (ESAF) program in May 1990 with the IMF and a
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSC/Cr.2152-BD) with IDA; the second
tranche of the Energy Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC/Cr.1999-BD) was subse-
quently released in June 1990. In addition to its macroeconomic aspects, key
elements of the structural reform program to stimulate economic growth were
(a) public expenditure rationalization, including prioritization of the public
investment program; (b) tax reform, including the introduction of a value-
added tax; (c) financial sector reform; and (d) trade liberalization.
7.    A mid-term donor review of GOB's economic performance in November 1990
concluded that GOB had made substantial progress in stabilizing the short-term
macroeconomic situation and had initiated a number of important sectoral
reforms. Under the stabilization program, the budget was strengthened by
revenue and expenditure measures, and the deficit contained to the original
target. Credit growth was curtailez- signif4cantly, and quantitative credit
targets were achieved. Flexible exchange rate management allowed export
competitiveness to recover to essentially the level prevailing in November
1988. The external current account deficit was contained and gross official
reserves increased. Sound policy reforms were being pursued in agriculture,
industry and the financial sector (supported by various IDA projects/adjust-
ment operations). Substantial progress was made in preparing for the intro-
duction of a value-added tax, and needed price adjustments in many of the
public enterprises were implemented. A number of important issues, however,
remained outstanding. While the FY91 budget was generally more realistic in
terms of revenue and expenditure prospects and included several important
provisions to contain public sector wage increases and restrain subsidies, GOB



-3-
was only beginning to come to grips with the difficult task of establishing
clear expenditure priorities and formulating a real'!tic and sound public
investment program. GOB also needed to intensify its efforts in the areas of
privatization, public enterprise reforms, and local resource mobilization.
8.    Early into the ESAF program, Bangladesh's economy was severely afiected
by the Gulf crisis. In addition to a higher import bill for oil and petroleum
products, Bangladesh lost substantial worker remittances from Iraq and Kuwait
as well as export markets for jute and tea, and incurred costs in repatriating
and rehabilitating workers returning from the Gulf. GOB's response to the
Gulf crisis was prompt, in terms of both increasing domastic petroleum prices
and taking measures to restrain current expenditures. It has also followed
tight monetary policies in keeping with the original ESAF program targets and
has taken discretionary fiscal measures to meet the revenue shortfall while
continuing with its structural reforma.  In April 1991, Bangladash was struck
by a massive cyclone which killed an v.Lficially estimated 139rOOO people and
severely damaged the largest city, Chittagong. As a result o' additional
cyclone-related relief expenditures as well as some related revenue
shortfalls, the targets for the first year ESAF program, which otherwise were
basically on track, could not be fully achieved. Subsequently, a second year
ESAF program was approved by the IMF in September 1991.
Bank GrouR Strategv
9.    Bangladesh's large structural imbalance between export earnings and
import requirements and its low level of domestic savings means that Bangla-
desh has needed, and will continue to need, a substantial amount of fast-
disbursing program assistance. In view of this, IDA provided a series of
annual Import Program Credi s (IPCs) between 1972 and 1986 in addition to its
traditional project lending. In an effort to accelerate policy reform and
bring the lending strategy into line with Bank-wide policies on adjustment,
IDA revised its strategy for Bangladesh in 1986 and replaced the IPCs with a
mix of sector and structural adjustment operations. The sector operations
were intended to provide a sectoral "umbrella" under which investment projects
would proceed, with project conditionality limited mainly to implementation
issues; the proceeds of the adjustment operations were expected to be used
primarily to finance general imports. While important progress has been made
in introducing a first round of policy reforms in key areas under the first
three adjustment operations for the industrial (FY87: Cr.1816-BD), energy
(FY89: Cr.1999-BD) and financial (FY90: Cr.2152-BD) sectors, the pace of
reform has turned out to be slower and more difficult than originally
expected. For example, Board presentation of the ESAC was delayed more than
one and a half years pending GOB's meeting the Board presentation conditions;
this also led to delays in processing energy investment projects. For the
future therefore, it is plann--. to place greater emphasis on policy reform
where possible in the context wf traditional project operations and sector
investment credits, and to use the fast-disbursing adjustment operations
needed for balance-of-payments support to promote better fiscal management
(through a Public Resource Management Adjustment Credit addressing issues in
public expenditure management, resource mobilization and foreign aid utili-
zation) aid continuing reforms in trade and investment policy and in finance.



-4-
Binerfy Sector Adiustment Credit
Origin and Obiectives
10.   The energy sector has played, and continues to play, a key role in
Bangladesh's development. Given its severe resource limitations and
persistent balance of payments constraints, the country needs an efficient
energy sector -:o promote economic growth, reduce foreign exchange outlays on
energy imports and mobilize resources for sector entities and GOB's budget.
While GOB had focused its energy strategy in the Second Five Year Plan (FY81-
85) on accelerating the development of natural gae, its primary commercial
energy resource, for use in power generation and fertilizer production,
shortages of both foreign and local resources had impeded the achievement of
Plan targets. Recognizing tnis, GOB had accorded high priority in the Third
Five Year Plan (FY86-90) to the sector's development, its principal objectives
(as reiterated in GOB's Letter of Sectoral Policy for the ESAC) being to: (a)
accelerate the development of domestic natural gas resources to reduce the
country's dependence on imported oil; (b) adjust energy prices to promote its
efficient and economic use, taking into account social objectives; (c) meet
energy demand at least cost to the economy; (d) improve reliability and
quality of power supply, and reduce system losses; (e) improve energy aector
entities' financial performance and mobilize resources required to meet
Bangladesh's development goals; and (f) encourage private sector participation
in the energy sector's development, especially in exploration for oil and gas.
At about the same time, IDA was in the process of revising its lending
strategy for Bangladesh and offered to assist GOB, through a fast-disbursing
sector adjustment operation, in formulating an integrated energy policy and
strengthening the organizational arrangements required for its implementation.
11.   GOB formed the Bangladesh Energy SecGtor Working Group (BESWG) to work
with a multi-sectoral IDA team in developing a policy framework for the ESAC
and requested IDA to take the lead in coordinatine donor participation in the
sector. The preparation of the ESAC provided a usefvl forum for both GOB and
the donors to take a more coordinated and integrated approach to the energy
sector's development. A number of studies, carried out u-nder earlier projects
and in the course of preparing the ESAC, provided the basis for defining the
policy framework and actions to be taken under the ESAC; these included formal
studies such as the UNDP-financed power sector tariff study (1986) and ODA-
financed reorganization studies for the Bangladesh Oil, GeG and Minerals
Corporation (BOGMC--renamed Petrobangl.a during 1989 reorganization) (1986-87)
and for the Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) (1987-88), and informal
studies such as those on natural gas and petroleum products pricing (1986)
carried out by IDA's consultants. During implementation of the ESAC, follow-
up assistance was also provided, for example, in implementing the
recommendations of the BPDB reorganization study (again ODA-financed), and
further assistance was provided for additional studies (e.g., UNDP-financed
update of the power investment program, ODA-financed feasibility study of the
Barapukuria coal mine and USAID-financed pricing impact study for rural
consumers of electricity in Bangladesh). Even for the studies that it did not
directly undertake itself, IDA played an importan' role in identifying issues
requiring further examination, drafting terms of reference, supporting
implementation and discussing results. Formal preparation of the ESAC began
in May 1986; it was appraised in March 1987 and negotiated in July 1987.



- 5 -
However* Board presentation was delayed urtil April 1989 because of GOB's
difficulty in meeting the Board presentation conditions, particularly those
concerning the financial performance of the energy sector entities.
12.   The ESAC's objectivQs, as defined in the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA), were to assist GOB in the extension and refinement of its energy policy
and to strengthen energy sector institutions. GOB's energy sector reform
program was outlined in its Letter of Sectoral Policy. Three areas of issues
were identified as the focus of these efforts--energy resource development and
investment, energy pricing and demand manaaement, and institutional
performanci and deveLopment. Reforms in these areas were also expected to
help facilitate GOB's overall adjustment effort. The policy framework
established under the ESAC was further intended to form the basis for IDA's
lending for specific energy investments.
Results of Key Actions under the ESAC
13.   The main actions under the ESAC were taken in the course of preparing
the adjustirant program (i.e., before Board presentation) and as conditions of
second tranche release. The results are summarized, respectively, in the
President's Rep"rt prepared for Credit approval and in the President's
Memorandum to the Board prepared at the time of the second tranche release.
Annex 1 in Part III of the present report also gives a summary assessment of
the progress in implementing the ESAC's specific conditions. The sections
below give an overview of the actions/results/evaluation in each of the three
main areas through June 1991. Satisfactory progress has been made under the
ESAC in the areas of investment planning and energy pricing, although progress
in the institutional area has been disappointing.
Energy Resource Develonment and Investment
14.   During preparation of the ESAC, it became evident that the development
of energy resources over the years in Bangladesh had progressed in a somewhat
piecemeal fashion, dictated primarily by the availability of financial
resources and aid-in-kind. Shortages of local resources, exacerbated by
institutional inefficiencies and energy prices below the levels required to
finance an adequate share of sector entities' in-estment programs, resulted in
frequent slippages in project implementation, cost overruns and changes in the
content and scope of investment programs. Recognizing these difficulties, GOB
had introduced the concept of a core investment program in FY83, but the
selection criteria pertained more to the availability of funding than to
whether the project was part of the least-cost program and of high priority in
the sector's overall development plan. A primary objective of the ESAC,
therefore, was to promote the integrated and least-cost development of the
energy sector, through (a) preparation of long-term development plans,
supported by (b) three-year rolling priority investment programs (PIPs).
Annual review of the PIP, together with its financing plan, has become a
regular feature of IDA's involvement in the Bangladesh energy sector; in
addition, it has provided a useful model which was followed in the broader
economy-wide context of prioritizing the public investment program in FY91.
Long-term development plans have also been developed for each of the
subsectors. What is still lacking, however, is the development of a truly
integrated approach to planning the sector's development, a role which may be
most appropriately taken on by the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources



(MEMR); moreover, the entities themselves need to take a more responsible role
in the planning process instead of leaving it to IDA and the other donors.
15. Priority Investment Program. The development of three-year rolling
priority investment programs under the ESAC were intended to complement the
long-term development plans for the energy subsectors which, in turn, would
provide the basis for the energy sector's integrated development. That is,
the PIPs were to help focus Bangladesh's limited financial resources and
implementation capabilities of the concerned energy sector entities on those
projects of highest priority in meeting the energy sector's overall
development objectives. The three-year timeframe of the PIPs, with annual
..eviews, was also expected to help GOB in planning the allocation of its
scarce resources over the medium-term (instead of the one-year horizon of the
Annual Development Program) while recognizing that the plans, particularly in
the outer years, are subject to change. IDA staff worked closely with the
various energy sector entities (including BPDB, Rural Electrification Board--
REB, Petrobangla, Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation--BPC, MEMR and Planning
Commission) in preparing the first PIP for the energy sector (for FY88-90) and
its financing plan; such assistance has continued up to the present time. In
fact, the most recent PIP for the energy sector (for FY91-93) was reviewed in
the context of the economy-wide effort to prioritize Bangladesh's public
investment program carried out as part of GOB's structural reform program
agreed under the Nay 1990 ESAF (para. 6).
16. Over the period of the ESAC, the size of the energy sector PIP has
decreased from Tk 43.2 billion for FY88-90 to Tk 39.5 billion for FY90-92,
reflecting in part the country's macroeconomic situation and budgetary
constraints. GOB's submission of an economy-wide priority investment program
in January 1991, however, cut the sector's allocation even further to Tk 35.7
billion for FY91-93, as against an indicative figure of Tk 48.4 billion
estimated by IDA staff to be required to support adequate growth in energy
supplies and the economy. Although GOB has now agreed to the sector's need
for additional resources, the details of the program are still being discussed
with the concerned energy sector entities (primarily BPDB and Petrobangla).
As for year-to-year implementation of the energy sector PIP under the ESAC,
actual expenditures amounted to 90% or more of the planned expenditures for
the power and petroleum subsectors individually and collectively in FY88 and
FY89. While the power subsector data for FY90 was not available at the time
of writing the Project Completion Report (PCR), actual expenditures for
petroleum fell to 78Z of planned expenditures in FY90; if the northeastern gas
fields and integrated transmission system are to be developed in accord with
the country's growing demand for natural gas, Petrobangla's investment
requirements in the near-medium term will be substantially higher than in
recent years.
17. The overall implementation of this component of the ESAC can be
considered to be quite successful and well worth following up under future
lending operations (both in energy and other sectors). It may be noted,
however, that the entities themselves need to take a more responsible role in
the planning process--i.e., they need to own the PIP--rather than relying upon
IDA and the other donors to establish the priorities. Moreover, MEMR could
play a crucial coordinating role, both among the various energy sector
entities and between the energy sector as a whole and the Planning Commission.
Since annual review of the PIP is now a regular feature of IDA's involvement



- 7 -
in the B%ngladesh energy sector (para. 14), it should also be possible to make
progress on these issues over time.
18.   Long-term Least-cost Development Plans.  With the power subsector
accounting for nearly 702 of total energy investment and about 17X of total
public investment, integrated planning of the subsector's investments to
assist its efficient development could have a significant impact on GOB's
ability to achieve its long-term energy objectives. Under UNDP And USAID
funding, an interim least-cost power generation expansion plan i.ad been
prepared in 1986 in connection with the power sector tariff study (para. 25);
however, it needed to be refined, updated and integrated with a least-cost
development plan for transmission to ensure the efficient generation and
evacuation of power. In early 1987, the Bangladesh Power Development Board
appointed UNDP-financed consultants to develop such a plan in the context of
preparing a feasibility study for a proposed central thermal power project.
As agreed under the ESAC, the plan was completed and reviewed by IDA in early
1989. Since then, BPDB's system loss reduction consultants (para. 38) have
completed a plan for the optimal expansion and reinforcement of the
distribu-i.ion network. Within the next one-two years, ADB plans to grant-
finance an updating of BPDB's 1985-2005 Power System Master Plan (PSMP) which
would provide an opportunity to develop a fully integrated plan, including
generation, transmission and distribution, for the subsector. While BPDB has
some in-house capabilities in transmission and distribution planning, they
rely on consultants for their generation expansion plans; further training of
BPDB staff in these areas should be considered for inclusion in the PSMP
updating. In an effort to improve the integration of power and gas subsector
planning, GOB may consider formation of a coordinating group with Petrobangla
along the lines of the joint MEMR/BPDB/REB power subsector engineering and
planning group, set up during preparation of IDA's Rural Electrification III
Project (RE-III/Cr.2129-BD).
19. Natural gas is Bangladesh's primary indigenous source of commercial
energy, effectively making the gas subsector, which accounts for nearly 30% of
total energy investments, the backbone of the energy sector. Gas development
in Bangladesh began in earnest after Independence; substitution of natural gas
for oil imports has been a primary objective of GOB's energy strategy since
the Second Five-Year Plan (FY81-85). By the mid-1980s, a number of studies
pertaining to the subsector's development were underway or planned, including
a Hydrocarbon Habitat Study, Gas-based Projects Feasibility Study and National
Gas Grid Study. Following detailed seismic surveys, an appraisal drilling
program was planned under IDA's Second Gas Development Project (Second
Gas/Cr.1586-BD) for the country's major gas fields in the latter half of the
1980. to firm up reserve estimates. By the 1987 ESAC appraisal, it was clear
that a long-term strategy was required to map out a least-cost plan for the
subsector's integrated development. Petrobangla subsequently agreed a set of
priority activities which are regularly reviewed during IDA petroleum
missions; the rolling three-year PIP is drawn from these activities.
Following completion of the appraisal drilling program in 1990 (including
development drilling in the northeastern gas fields), the key elements of
Petrobangla's present development program include: completion of the
associated surface facilities for the northeastern gas fields and the north-
south pipeline linking the fields with Ashuganj in the early 1990.;
construction of the Ashuganj to Bakhrabad and Titas pipeline (thus completing
the linkage of the northeastern fields with today's main producing fields to
the south and with demand centers in the Brahmaputra Basin, Greater Dhaka area



- 8 -
and Chittagong), drilling of further appraisal/production wells in the
northeastern gas fields and other known fields, and development of associated
surface facilities by the mid-1990s; and initiation of exploration drilling
for new gas fields in the latter-1990s. In June/July 1989, GOB carried out a
promotion campaign (under IDA's Petroleum Exploration Promotion
Project/Cr.1402-BD) aimed at attracting international oil companies to
undertake petroleum exploration in Bangladesh; although the closing date for
submission of offers has passed (January 15, 1991) and the likelihood is that
future discoveries will be gas rather than oil, Petrobangla is still
discussing possible exploration/exploitation arrangements with a few
interested companies.
20.   Three gas subsector issues requiring close attention in IDA's future
energy sector dialogue include: (a) given the power subsector's dependence on
the gas subsector for supplying its future power plants, closer integration of
their development programs together with GOB's provision of adequate financial
resources for gas as well as power are essential to ensure Petrobangla's
infrastructure investments are technically consistent and able to keep pace
with BPDB's generation expansion plans; (b) BPDB's poor financial performance
and operational inefficiencies impact the Petrobangla group of companies in so
far as BPDB is a major gas consumer accounting for a significant portion of
the gas companies' receivables (about 35%), and its high peak demand (which
translates into a high peak for gas) has implications for gas well production
levels and investment requirements; and (c) gas subsector planning necessarily
involves risks, particularly on the supply side (e.g., more rapid production
declines or lower reserves than anticipated), which means Petrobangla should
have the capability and responsibility to re-optimize eas network investments
as the supply base and demand forecasts change. These issues will continue to
be addressed under IDA's ongoing Gas Subsector Review as well as under its
proposed Power Rehabilitation (FY92) and Gas Infrastructure Development (FY93)
Projects.
21.   GOB's efforts to promote a high rate of penetration of gas throughout
the economy have clearly been successful; gas consumption has tripled over the
1980s, with gas now accounting for about 60% of commercial energy supply. As
a result, the share of imported crude oil and petroleum Products has fallen
from about 20% of merchandise imports in the early 1980s to about 8% today.
This may decline even further once the northeastern gas fields come into full
production since they have substantial natural gas liquids which can serve as
the basis for expanded use of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) as a substitute
for imported kerosene and traditional fuels. IDA's recently approved LPG
Transport and Distribution Project (LPG/Cr.2263-BD) will support development
of the downstream facilities for the LPG from these fields including
facilitating private sector involvement. With the substitution of liquid
fuels by natural gas limited by technical factors, Bangladesh's refinery
(Eastern Refinery Limited--ERL) will need to continue to process sizable
imports of crude oil and petroleum products. Installation of secondary
conversion facilities at ERL among other efficiency measures, supported under
IDA's Refinery Modification and LPG Recovery and Distribution Project
(Refinery Modification/Cr.1749-BD), should help to enhance its flexibility to
better match refinery output with changing demand patterns and to increase its
cost efficiency. GOB will need to continue to monitor the ability of botiL ERL
and the existing petroleum products delivery network to adapt to changes in
petroleum product demand.



- 9 -
22. With its primary indigenous commercial energy resource (natural gas)
limited to date to the east zone, the prospect of a potentially economic
energy resource in the form of coal in the west zone warranted careful
evaluation. During preparation of the ESAC, therefore, GOB formulated a
phased program to evaluate, with the assistance of ODA-financed consultants,
the Barapukuria coal deposit discovered by the Geological Survey of Bangladesh
in the west zone and to determine its technical, economic and financial
viability. The consultants completed the prefeasibility study in October 1988
and the feasibility study in October 1990; the results were presented to GOB
and the donors in November 1990. While large proven reserves of good quality
coal have been confirmed, recovery is expected to be limited to only about 1OZ
of the reserves and to be technically difficult and costly. Although the
final report is still under review, it would appear that developing the coal
deposit is unlikely to be viable for the foreseeable future. In addition to
other coal and peat deposits which bave yet to be explored/evaluated, GOB is
also considering the possibility of methane gas (seamgas) recovery from coal
deposits in the west zone.
23. With growing evidence in Bangladesh of dwindling biomass supplies, on
which the majority of the population depends, and a resulting increase in the
substitution of commercial for traditional fuels, the need for an interfuel
substitution study focusing on the peri-urban areas and the rural poor was
identified during preparation of the ESAC. Funding for the study was expected
to be provided from bilateral sources under the World Bank/UNDP Energy Sector
Management Assistance Program (ESHAP). While IDA prepared a draft terms of
reference for the study and held preliminary discussions with GOB in 1988-89,
funding for the study failed to materialize. Hence, the study has not been
undertaken to date. As part of the country-programming exercise now underway
for the reorganized ESMAP, a more focused study on the development of a least-
cost fuels supply strategy is being considered for discussion with GOB. It is
also important that end-use efficiencies of traditional energy be improved; in
this connection, IDA's LPG Project, in addition to providing LFG as a
substitute fuel, includes a technical assistance component directed toward
improving conversion efficiency in cooking stoves.
Energy Pricing and Demand Management
24. GOB's key energy pricing policy objectives include economic efficiency,
resource mobilization (for the entities and the Bvdget) and equity. These
objectives, however, have not been achieved in the past mainly because the
level and structure of energy prices, particularly of natural gas and
electricity, did not reflect their economic costs of supply. Moreover,
distortions in the relative prices of competing fuels made prices inequitable.
For example, when the ESAC was appraised in FY87, gas prices for certain
consumer categories were significantly below their long-run marginal costs,
while significant cross-subsidization between industrial and domestic
consumers was built into the power tariff structure. Further, the price
structures/levels failed to discourage consumption during peak periods.
Finally, as a result of the low margins received on sales, the gas companies
were unable to self-finance a reasonable proportion of their investment
programs and their overall fintncial viability was at risk.  The pricing
policy reforms implemented under the ESAC, both during the Credit's
preparation and as conditions of second tranche release, have made
considerable progress in addressing these concerns. These will be followed up
under proposed IDA investment lending operations. In the case of natural gas



- 10 -
in particular, the gas subsector's rapid development in recent years (in
terms, e.g., of estimated reserves, preser.ce of natural gas liquids and need
for an integrated transmission network at least in the east zone) means that
it is time to update the economic cost of supply and the level/structure of
prices withi a view to ensuring the key objectives are met; this will be done
during preparation of IDA's proposed Gas Infrastructure Development Project
(FY93). While no direct action on energy conservation was taken under the
ESAC, inefficiency in commercial energy use, particularly in industry,
petroleum refining and power supply, is being addressed through various IDA-
financed projects, including Refinery Modification, Industrial Energy
Efficieu.cy (Cr.1942-BD), Power Distribution (16 Towns) (Cr.2016-BD) and the
proposed Power Rehabilitation Project (FY92).
25.   Electricity.  During 1980-85 electricity tariff rates had been increased
by 127%, representing average annual increases of about 18% in nominal terms
and 5% in real terms. Despite these increases, however, the tariffs continued
to fall short of GOB's energy pricing objectives. That is, the average tariff
rate as of June 1986 was about 55% of the estimated economic cost of supply
(i.e., long-run marginal cost--LRMC); the prevailing tariff structure was
inconsistent with that dictated by marginal cost pricing, hence rates for many
consumer categories were below LRMC and there was significant cross-
subsidization between some consumer groups; consumers were given little
incentive to avoid consumption during the system peak period; and revenue from
electricity sales was lower thar. required to make the power subsector entities
financially viable and enable t!tem to self-finance a reasonable proportion of
their investment programs. The recommendations of the UNDP-financed power
sector tariff study, carried out under IDA's Rural Electrification II (RE-II/
Cr.1633-BD) and Power Transmission and Distribution (Power Trans/Dist/
Cr.1648-BD) Projects and completed in August 1986, addressed these
shortcomings through changes in the structure and level of tariffs.
26. During the ESAC negotiations, a phased program to reform electricity
tariff structures based on the study's recommendations was agreed, including
(a) in the case of BPDB tariffs, reduction in the number of tariff categories,
introduction of time-of-day tariffs and demand charges based on recorded
maximum demand for 33-kV, 11-kV and large low voltage consumers, and reduction
in the size of the subsidized blocks for residential consumers; and (b) in the
case of PBS (rural electrification cooperative) tariffs, introduction of time-
of-day tariffs for large consumers and replacement of the subsidized single-
rate for residential consumers by a structure similar to that for BPDB's
residential consumers. It was further agreed tnat annual adjustments in
tariff levels would be made to ensure existing financial covenants were met
(for BPDB, to achieve an adequate rate of return on its revalued assets, and
for the PBSs, to cover their operating expenses and interest and an adequate
proportion of their investment programs).
27. During 1987-90 BPDB's average tariff rate was increased about 41Z, or
about 9% p.a., and that of the PBSs about 61%, or about 13% p.a., in nominal
terms, as against domestic inflation of about 9% p.a. over the same period.
Average revenues from electricity sales now reflect 65-70% of the estimated
LRMC. In addition, the program to reform tariff structures has been
successfully implemented, particularly in the case of BPDB. BPDB's tariff
rates for supplies to industt.al, commercial and large residential consumers
exceed LRMC; the number of units available to residential consumers at heavily
subsidized rates has been reduced; and with the exception of the PBSs,



- 11 -
incentives to reduce consumption during the system peak (e.g., time-of-day
tariffs) have been introduced for BPDB's major non-residential consumers.
28. Despite BPDB's average tariff rate being among the highest in the
Region, at about US$ 0.066/kWh, and initial indications that BPDB had been
able to achieve a rate of return in line with its financial covenants during
FY89-90 (Part III, Annex 1), it now appears that BPDB continues to be unable
to meet its financial covenants. However, the reason is not the level of the
tariff but rather the excessive system losses, poor collections and high
accct'nts receivable discussed in paras. 38-41 below; until these issues are
resolved, BPDB will be unable to achieve a reasonable rate of return or to
self-finance a reasonable proportion of its investment program. In the case
of the PBSs, for which the average tariff rate is US$ 0.082/kWh, a USAID-
financed study completed in 1988 concluded that while the rural
electrification program as a whole should be financially viable, individual
PBSs' financial performance could be expected to vary widely depending on
consumer mix and density; this had indeed been observed with several PBSs
being unable to meet their financial targets. In much the same way as each
DBS sets its own tariff rates with the approval of the Rural Electrification
Board, therefore, it was agreed under IDA's RE-III Project that REB would
astablish a system of individual Performance Agreements for monitoring the
performance of operating PBSs; the system has just completed its first year of
operation. Further restructuring of electricity tariffs in the near term
should focus on effecting improved load management and efficient use of the
system. An updating of the 1986 tariff study may be considered once BPDB's
financial crises are resolved and the Power System Master Plan (para. 18) has
been updated.
29. Natural Gas. Under IDA's Second Gas Project, GOB accepted the principle
of pricing natural gas based on the economic cost of supply including a
depletion premium. By end-1986, however, despite annual increases since 1980
resulting in gas prices more than two and a half times their 1980 levels, the
average gas price was only about 80% of the estimated economic cost of supply
and prices paid by power, fertilizer, residential and small industrial
consumers, accounting for more than 80% of consumption, remained below their
economic costs. Under the ESAC, GOB extended its agreement to increase gas
prices to achieve, as a first step, equality with the economic cost of supply
to each consumer group and, thereafter, to reduce the gap between the prices
of gas and substitute fuels to mobilize resources for the Budget; a program of
tariff adjustments to meet, as a minimum, the first of these objectives by the
time of the second tranche release was also agreed. In line with this, during
1987-90 gas prices were increased on average by about 80Z, or about 162 p.a.,
as against 9% p.a. domestic inflation, bringing gas prices for all consumer
groups to/above the economic cost of supply (based on presently available
estimates of economic costs).
30. With the gas subsector's rapid development in recent years and changes
in certain consumer groups' gas consumption patterns, there is now a need to
update th3 economic cost of supply, including the depletion premium, and to
consider further adjustments in the structure as well as the level of gas
tariffs with a view to economic efficiency and equity. Enhanced resource
mobilization for the gas companies and for the Budget also continue to be
important objectives. As part of the ongoing preparations for IDA's proposed
Gas Infractructure Development Project, the economic cost of gas supply is
being updated taking into account the revised gas supply base resulting from



- 12 -
the recently completed round of appraisal drilling under Second Gas, as well
as Petrobangla's recent and planned infrastructure investments. The need for
further reforms in the level and structure of transfer and retail prices is
also being asseseed, not only for dry gas, but also for natural gas liquids
which are expected to significantly augment the capital requirements and sales
revenues of Bangladesh's hydrocarbon subsector (reservoir studies for the
newly appraised wells indicate much higher condensate fractions than
originally estimated). These gas pricing reforms may include: (a) introduc-
tion of explicit capacity as well as commodity charges for some consumer
categories, among other measures to differentiate among consumers in terms of
the relative costs they impose on the system; (b) reallocation of revenues
among the gas companies taking into account the cost of an integrated grid and
the accompanying separation of the transmission and distribution functions,
among other adjustments in the gas price build-up to ensure the future
financial viability of the individual gas companies; and (c) potential for
augmenting the subsector's contribution to Budget.
31. Petroleum Products. The weighted average domestic price of petroleum
products in Bangladesh in December 1986 was about 1501 of the weighted average
border price. In the early 1980s, tile Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (which
is responsible for procurement of crude oil/petroleum products, distribution
of petroleum products and setting of petroleum product retail prices in accord
with GOB policies) had incurred financial losses when some of its prices were
below border prices. Hence, when world oil prices fell in the mid-1980s,
domestic prices were retained at relatively high levels to strengthen BPC's
financial position and to mobilize resources for the Budget. In line with
this policy, under the ESAC GOB agreed a pricing formula which would ensure
that the weighted average domestic petroleum product prices, net of distribu-
tion, marketing and other handling costs, would always exceed border prices by
at least 15x; it also agreed not to reduce the weighted average retail price
of petroleum products below levels existing in FY87.
32. Except for a brief period in early 1990, GOB has followed these
principles and, in fact, responded very promptly to the Gulf crisis in late
1990 with a cumulative increase in petroleum product prices of about 85%
between August and October 1990 as well as with direct conservation measures.
These adjustments have also brought the relative pricing structure of domestic
prices closer to that of border prices. (The ESAC had not addressed this
explicitly since a review of the impact of prices and other charges associated
with petroleum products on petroleum product consumption patterns, choice of
end-use technologies and GOB's resource mobilization efforts, carried out
during the ESAC's preparation, had shown no evidence that the structure was
causing significant distortions to resource allocation.) Al,though world oil
prices have now generally returned to pre-Gulf crisis levels, GOB's present
plans are to maintain the high prices for purposes of resource mobilization.
In line with the work being done on gas pricing during preparation of the Gas
Infrastructure Development Project (para. 30), GOB may consider broadening the
base for resource mobilization from the energy sector over the longer-term by
further increases in gas prices. One further issue, which the ESAC did not
address and which may require GOB's attention, is the impact of the high level
of the customs/excise duties on BPC's financial position and the adequacy of
the GOB-regulated mark-ups for distribution/handling for BPC's marketing
companies and the private sector. With domestic consumption of LPG on the
rise, GOB's application of sound pricing policies for LPG is being addressed
under IDA's recently approved LPG Project.



- 13 -
Institutional Performance and Development
33.   While the achievements of the energy pricing and investment planning
reforms outlined above are significant, Bangladesh's ability to optimize the
use of its limited resources is also affected by the efficiency and
effectiveness of its sector entities. Four publicly-owned entities, BPDB,
REB, BOGMCI, BPC and their subsidiaries, are responsible for the production,
.transport and delivery of commercial energy in Bangladesh. Institutional
weaknesses ir. the energy sector entities, especially in BPDB and BOGMC, have
led to serious inefficiencies in the sector's operation and managsment in the
past. For example, BPDB's technical and non-technical power system losses
have been inordinately high and its collection of billings seriously
inadequate; as a result, BPDB has had to generate nearly two kWh of
electricity for every one kWh on which it collects cash revenue. BOGMC's weak
management, overlapping functions and uneven implementation performance have
also needed to be improved. Under the ESAC, an institutional reform and
development program was agreed with a view to enhancing the planning,
management, operational efficiency and financiul viability of BPDB and BOGMC;
reduction of the main energy seccor entities' accounts receivable was a
further important aspect of the Credit. While diagnostic studies have been
completed for both entities and the needed reforms/timetable for
implementation agreed, actual implementation has been slower than expected and
the impact on performance less than anticipated. In the case of BPDB, while
the new Government has reconfirmed its commitment to the reform program,
repeated delays in its implementation have resulted in the suspension of
disbursements under IDA's Power Distribution (16 Towns) Project, and further
lending by IDA and other major donors has been suspended pending concrete
actions by GOB to address the power sector's financial problems.
34.   BPDB's Performance.  Satisfactory implementation of the BPDB
reorganization (or Action Plan for Performance Improvement--APPI) was one of
the key elements of GOB's energy sector reform program under the ESAC.
Although one of the largest public sector entities in Bangladesh, BPDB's
performance had been consistently weak, as manifested by unreliable and poor
quality electricity supply, very high system losses, low manpower
productivity, inadequate financial and accounting management, high accounts
receivable, low self-financing levels and ineffectual planning. The major
causes had been identified as GOB's intervention in BPDB's daily operations,
unclear definition of the Chairman's and Board Members' responsibilities,
excessive centralization of responsibility and particularly insufficient
delegation of responsibility to key staff in the distribution function, lack
of an appropriate incentive system to reward good performance by management
and staff, and powerful trade unions. While IDA and ADB had addressed some of
these institutional issues under previous lending operations and some progress
had been made, much remained to be done, and during the preparation of the
ESAC, GOB agreed to invite consultants (under ODA-financing) to carry out a
diagnostic study to determine the priorities for restructuring BPDB.
35.   The key recommendation of the 1987 study was that BPDB's distribution
function should be decentralized to strengthen the interface between BPDB and
its consumers to better control system losses and accounts receivable and
1 Renamed Petrobangla at the time of its reorganization in 1989.



- 14 _
improve collections; other recommendations pertained to organizational changes
and restructuring within BPDB and to generally strengthening its overall
operation, particularly in the areas of planning, finance, management
information and personnel systems. These recommendations were agreed in
principle by GOB, BPDB and major donors in early 1988. In November 1988
Cabinet approved the recommended reorganization, including the establishment
of Dnaka Electric Supply Authority (DESA) as a separate entity to handle
distribution in the Greater Dhaka area effective July 1, 1990. In January
1989 during negotiations for IDA's 16 Towns Project, a dated action program to
implement the reorganization was agreed, including the appointment of ODA-
financed consultants to assist BPDB in the implementation phase. Satisfactory
imple&aentation of the program was a covenant under the ESAC.
36.   Implementation of the dated action program has been fraught with delays,
beginning with a nine-month delay in the appointment of the implementation
consultants. As a first step toward decentralizing the distribution function,
in June 1989 BPDB delegated administrative, financial and commercial powers to
its five zonal engineers to improve accountability and performance of each
distribution zone. Over the next one and a half years, the BPDB ordinance was
amended; DESA was established, its Chairman and Board Members appointed, and
its office opened; and numerous working papers were completed pertaining to
all aspects of DESA's separation/start of commercial operations and BPDB's
reorganization. Necessary action by the BPDB and DESA Boards, APPI Steering
Committee and GOB in reviewing the working papers and in taking decisions,
however, was often slow in coming, and implementation began to fall behind
schedule. Moreover, the actual start of DESA's commercial operation faced
heavy resistance by the BPDB unions which culminated in the closing of the
DESA office in December 1990 during the overthrow of the previous Government.
At the request of ODA, in late April 1991 the new Government reconfirmed its
commitment to the principles of the reorganization, including setting up DESA,
and took various actions to strengthen BPDB's management and execution of the
APPI. Nevertheless, a further five months lapsed before GOB and BPDB were
able to take the necessary actions to enable DESA to commence commercial
operation (October 1, 1991). And even now, a number of key actions, including
GOB's sanctioning of the DESA organizational st:ucture and the transfer of
assets/liabilities from BPDB to DESA, remain to be completed before DESA can
be considered fully operational.
37.   Because of the repeated delays in DESA's start-up, ODA withdrew the
implementation consultants at end-July 1991 (when their work was originally
scheduled to be completed), and IDA suspended disbursements under the 16 Towns
Project in September 1991 (DESA's commercial operation by July 1, 1990 is a
covenant in the DCA and Project Agreement; new lending for power by IDA and
other major donors had already been suspended because of BPDB's financial
problems (para. 41]). ODA has indicated that once DESA begins operation and
ODA receives a request from GOB to resume the assistance, they will consider
reinstating the implementation consultants on an extended appointment to
assist in completing the key aspects of the reorganization. The success of
the reorganization, however, deFends upon the full commitment and involvement
of GOB, BPDB and DESA in implementing the changes. The major donors for power
in Bangladesh have, from the beginning, considered the BPDB reorganization to
be essential to improving its performance; moreover, DESA's creation is seen
as a first step, with a view to creating additional boards if DESA's
performance is significantly better than that of the distribution regions
remaining within BPDB. GOB's completing the key steps for DESA's commercial



_ 15 -
operation as detailed in an action plan agreed in August 1991 is a prerequi-
site for IDA's lifting the suspension on the 16 Towns Project; continuing
implementation of the overall reform program will be followed up during
processing of IDA's proposed Power Rehabilitation Project (FY92).
38. During preparation of the ESAC, BPDB's inordinately high gower system
losses and accounts receivable were highlighted as two aspects of its
financial performance warranting particular attention. BPDB's performance in
these areas under the ESAC was partly responsible for the 2O-month lag between
negotiations and Board presentation and the 6-month lag between second tranche
review and release (BPDB's gross system losses for FY87 were 38Z and for FY88
422, while its accounts receivable remained above 5 months' billings for these
two years).  High system losses cause BPDB to lose substar&tial revenu-s, with
the result that higher tariff increases are required to meet financial targets
agreed with donors and BPDB remains heavily dependent on GOB to finance its
investment program. High accounts receivable weaken BPDB's cash position and
its ability to keep current on its payables (e.g., fuel bills, customs duties
and debt service). Neither issue was new to BPDB or to IDA at the time of the
ESAC, and both had been addressed under IDA's Power Trans/Dist Project (system
losses through a UNDP-financed consultancy to assist BPDB in identifying means
to reduce both non-technical and technical losses; accounts receivable through
a dated covenant requiring BPDB to reduce its receivables to 3 months) as well
as under earlier lending operations by IDA and other donors.
39.   The approach taken under the ESAC was to assist BPDB through agreeing
emergency action programs designed to achieve intermediate targets while
developing longer-term action plans directed toward more sustainable
improvements in performance. In the case of system losses, the emergency
program mainly addressed non-technical losses and included establishment of a
loss monitoring unit in BPDB, more adequate staffing of commerial operations,
incGntives to staff to control losses, appointment of magistrates/police to
apprehend consumers stealing electricity, replacing consumer-installed meters,
and calibrating/sealing meters. The longer-term plan agreed in early 1990
addressed techuical as well as non-technical losses and was based on the
recommendations of the UNDP-financed consultants. In the case of accounts
receivable, attention was directed toward clearing the accounts receivable of
government departments, municipalities and autonomous corporations, aging of
accounts and writing off of old/inactive accounts, and improved billing. In
April 1990 during negotiations for IDA's proposed Power Rehabilitation
Project, in an effort to minimize BPBD's future accumulation of arrears, an
action plan to improve revenue collection from both public and private
consumers was agreed. Implementation of the longer-term plans are also
closely linked to BPDB's ongoing ADB-financed program to computerize billing.
40.   BPDB's performance in carrying out the action plans, while slow at
first, appeared to be satisfactory. According to its statistics on commercial
operations, BPDB also managed, after some delays as noted above and in Part
III, Annex 1, to bring down its gross system losses to 28% and accounts
receivable to 3.5 months' billings by the time of the second tranche release
(June 1990, based on mid-FY90 data). However, after the tranche was released,
the trends reversed, and both system losses and accounts receivable began to
rise sharply. It now appears that the figures showing improved performance
were incorrect. After the President's Memorandum recommending the second
tranche be released had been distributed to IDA's Board in late May 1990,
information was received which indicated considerable discrepancies between



- 16 -
BPDB's audited financial statements and monthly commercial operations
statistics for FY89 (e.g., sales reported in the audited accounts were 86% of
those in the commercial statistics and accounts receivable were 1402). It was
decided at the time not to withdraw the recommendation to release the tranche
since deficiencies were known to exist in the transfer of data from the field
to operations and from there to finance, and the commercial statistics had
been a consistent and apparently reliable basis for monitoring BPDB's
performance in the past. IDA requested BPDB to reconcile the differences
between the audited accounts and commercial statistics by September 1990.
However, BPDB was unable to do so, and after discussions with IDA in November
1990, it became clear that the data submitted were not accurate. In March
1991 BPDB revised its statistics on commercial operations for FY90. The
result was 39% system losses for FY90 and accounts receivable of 4.1 months'
billings at year-end; the figures for FY91 are worse, 412 and 6.3 months'
respectively.
41. Given the overall deterioration in BPDB's performance and apparent
unreliability of its accounting data, in October 1990 IDA and ADB jointly
proposed a comprehensive technical assistance (TA) package to strengthen the
financial management of BPDB and DESA over the next three-four years,
including (a) appointment of qualified/experienced financial managers; (b)
consultancy to implement appropriate accounting, internal control and
financial planning/budgeting systems; (c) engagement of an internationally
recognized audit firm; and (d) managerial development training. The proposed
TA would complement the ongoing effort to reorganize BPDB by going beyond
development of the basic levels of systems and practices to detailed
implementation of improvements in financial management and accounting, and
should provide an integrated framework for carrying out the related action
plans/computerization activities. Effecting sustainable improvements in the
power subsector's performance through such a TA program, however, will require
a clear government commitment to BPDB and DESA management to give its full
political backing to obtaining acceptable levels of accountability and
discipline among their staff. In a letter to IDA in July 1991, the new
Government outlined a number of legal and administrative actions it had
taken/planned to take in the coming months, including establishing various
task forces/fraud squads, introducing performance verification audits for high
tension consumers and shifting employees among electric supply units. While
these measures are a promising start, attention also needs to be directed
toward eliminating fraud by BPDB employees as well as cinsumers, and effective
mechanisms put in place for prosecuting/punishing corrupt employees and
consumers (as well as incentive systems for rewarding employees' good
performance).  New lending for po.er by IDA and other major donors has been
suspended pending GOB's/BPDB's/DESA's initiating implementation of the above
and achieving quantitative improvements in the power sector's performance on a
sustained basis.
42.   Petrobangla's Performance2.  BOGMC's fraRmented organization, as
demonstrated by overlapping responsibilities among the various operating
companies (OCs), inadequate central planning and performance monitoring
capabilities, and resulting weaknesses in operational efficiency, had been
identified as a key institutional issue during preparation of IDA's Second Gas
Project. GOB had also recognized the need to streamline BOGMC's organiza-
2 Renamed from BOGMC at the time of the 1989 reorganization.



- 17 -
tional structure; and following a diagnostic study to identify measures for
improving BOGMC's organizational and managerial functions carried out by IDA
(with the assistance of an international management consultant) during the
appraisal of Second Gas, GOB had agreed to implement a reorganization plan
satisfactory to IDA by July 1, 1986. In the interim, GOB requested ODA to
grant finance a follow-up study to prepare a more detaile, implementation plan
cove?ing the restructuring of the companies as well as the establishmernt of
accounting, management information (MIS) and other monitoring systems,
including training. Following delays in appointing/mobilizing the
consultants, the interim report was completed in January 1987 and the final
report in June 1987; the reform program, agreed in principle during the ESAC
appraisal, wa., to be carried out in two sequential phases, namely the
"Companies Plan" and the more complex "Systems Plan", with additional support
from ODA. The overall structure and dated implementation plan for the BOGMC
re*rganization were agreed durtng the ESAC negotiations.
43.   The primary objective of the reorganization was to divest BOGMC of all
operational activities and to reorganize them, together with those of the
existing OCs, under a new set of operationally independent OCs organized along
functional (rather than geographic) lines. BOGMC would then operate as a
holding company, holding equity in the OCs on GOB's behalf and being
responsible for investment planning and monitoring as well as sector policy
formulation. Following further delays (due in part to GOB's need to seek
Cabinet approval of the reorganization proposal which was not anticipated at
the time of negotiations), the basic elements of the reorganization (i.e., the
Companies Plan) were implemented by July 1989 and BOGMC was renamed
Petrobangla. However, implementation of the Systems Plan, including carrying
out complex inter-company transfers associated with the OCs' restructuring and
accounting/MIS system reforms, has fallen far behind schedule, largely because
of GOB's unwillingness to accept the extent of technical assistance proposed
by ODA based on the June 1987 report's recommendations. It may also be noted
that IDA staff gave insufficient attention to this matter under the ESAC--
i.e., while the specifics of the Companies Plan were detailed in the Minutes
of Negotiations, only the start date of the TA for the Systems Plan was
included in the dated implementation plan, and in the twenty months between
negotiations and Board presentation, this was changed to a review by December
31, 1989 (i.e., once the OCs were operational) of the OCs' accounting systems
with a view to determining their need for further assistance in streamlining
the systems; unfortunately, the assessment of the situation made at the time
of the ESAC second tranche review mission was quite cursory and subsequently
proved to be rather optimistic.
44. The result is that although Petrobangla has been legally restructared
and the corresponding inter-company transfers made, important elements of the
reorganization have yet to be completed for it to meet its objectives. The
Petrobangla group of companies is having to cope with accounting/HIS systems
which need updating and computerization to meet the requirementd of the new
structure; the staff also need to be trained in the new systems. As part of
the preparation of IDA's proposed Gas Infrastructure Development Project
(FY93), the 1987 Systems Plan is being updated and grant financing sought;
ensuring satisfactory implementation of the revamped Plan will be an important
objective of the Project. In Jutne 1991 (some two years behind schedule), GOB
released its equity holdings in Petrobangla's OCs; Petrobangla is now in the
process of registering the shares with the Registrar of Companies and
substituting GOB representation on the OCs' Boards. These steps are essential



- 18 -
if Petrobangla is to operate as a proper holding company and the OCs are to
operate on a commercial basis independent of direct government involvement.
In addition, with the development of the overall gas system in the east zone
now well underway, Petrobangla im actively proceeding with the formation of a
National Gas Transmission Company. Further restructuring issues, such as the
fov-mation of a single national gas production company, are being considered in
the context of IDA's ongoing Gas Subsector Review.
45. During preparation of IDA's Second Gas Project, it had been recognlied
that the financial viability of the gas operatine companies would depend on
three main factors--the margins on gas sales allowed to the companies by GOB,
the level of their long-term indebtednc s, and their ability to collect
receivables. It had accordingly been agreed during Credit negotiations that:
(a) the margins on gas sales would be such as to enable the gas companies to
cover their current expenditure, debt service and working capital require-
ments, and finance a reasonable proportion of their future investment program;
(b) the debt/equity ratios of the gas production and transmission/distribution
companies would not exceed 60/40 and 70/30, respectively; and (c) the gas
companies would maintain their accounts receivable at not more than three
months of gas sales. With the reorganization imminent, the covenants were to
apply to the reorganized gas companies; as noted above, however, the
reorganization had not yet taken place at the time of preparing the ESAC.
Preliminary estimates for FY87 indicated that the gas companies (on a
consolidated basis) would make a financial loss and have a small negative rate
of return on total capital employed; moreover, when the companies had been
able to generate profits in the past, they had typically been captured by GOB
in the form of dividends. Thus, GOB was still taking out of the gas companies
more than 75% of the gas sales revenue in the form of excise duties, taxes and
dividends, leaving them few reso_rces with which to carry out their operations
let alone self-finance a portion of their investment programs. Their overall
receivables situation was also poor (over 5 months of sales), thus weakening
their cash position. In an effort to ensure increased margins for the gas
companies, assist their financial viability and improve financial discipline
in the subsector, it was therefore decided to strengthen the existing revenue
covenant under the ESAC by fixing specific annual contributions to investment
for the gas companies (beginning with a minimum of 10% in the first year of
operation of the newly organized companies, increasing to 40% by the fourth
year) and by not allowing the companies to declare dividends until the targets
had been met. The impact on GOB's overall budgetary resources of allowing the
gas companies to retain a greater portion of their revenues would be neutral
because GOB's contribution to the gas companies' investment could be reduced
by a like amount.
46. Over the period of the ESAC, GOB has significantly increased the share
of the revenues which the gas companies are allowed to retain, from a
historical level of 10% of the additional revenuer generated by the annual gas
price increases, to ':O% in FY88 and FY89, 40% in FY90, and 1OOZ in FY91. As a
result, in FY91 the gas companies will be left with about 37% of the revenue
from gas sales. Nevertheless, the accounts for FY90 (the first year of
operation of the new companies) and forecasts for FY91 show that only three of
the five gas companies were able to comply with the self-financing targets
(10% for FY90 and 20Z for FY91). (None of the companies declared dividends in
FY90.) As noted in para. 30, one of the issues being addressed during
preparation of the proposed Gas Infrastructure Development Project is the
level and structure of future gas prices given the rapid development of the



- 19 -
gas subsector and gas consumption in recent years; this analysis will also
consider the adequacy of margins for individual gas companies, taking into
account their different cost structures. This will be of particular
importance once the ongoing gas field development and pipeline work under the
Second Gas Project have been completed and transferred to the concerned
companies (these are presently under the Project Implementation Unit in
Petrobangla).
47.   Excessive debt/equity ratios and hence high debt servicing requirements
have also precluded the gas companies from meeting their self-financing
targets; on y two of the gas companies met the debt/equity covenant under
IDA's Seconui Gas Project in FY90 and FY91l In conjunction with IDA's recent
approval of the extension of the closing date of Cr.1586-BD for Second Gas,
GOB has agreed in principle to convert a portion of the long-term debt to
equity for the most critically affected gas companies (BGFCL, BGSL, TGTDC)3.
This will be followed up, together with GOB's funding policies for the gas
companies and other capitalization issues (including revaluation of assets),
during preparation of the Gas Infrastructure Development Project.
48.   As for the gas companies' accounts receivable, GOB has complied with the
letter but not the spirit of the covenant under the Second Gas Project
(repeated under the ESAC). That is, as noted in Part III, Annex 1, although
the accounts receivable of the gas companies were brought into line with the
covenanted three months of gas sales through crash collections programs at key
points in the Credit processing cycle (e.g., Board presentation and tranche
release), the levels have not been sustained. Information as of end-March
1991 indicates that only two of the companies (BGSL and BGFCL) are in
compliance, the accounts receivable of the other companies being in the range
of 3.7-5.0 months' sales. With some 70% of the receivables due from
government agencies (including public sector corporations), GOB agreed with
IDA in early June 1991 an action program designed to bring the gas companies
into compliance by end-July 1991; information received to date indicates that
GOB is implementing the action program albeit somewhat more slowly than
planned. Longer term measures to ensure sustained compliance will be
discussed during preparation of the Gas Infrastructure Development Project.
Overall Evaluation
Implementation ExDerience
49.   Formal preparat4.on of the ESAC began in May 1986; it was appraised in
March 1987 and negotiated in July 1987. However, Board presentation was
delayed until April 1989 because of GOB's difficulty in meeting the Board
presentation conditions, particularly those concerning the energy sector
entities' financial performance; in the interim, it was also discovered that
GOB had not been implementing the subsidiary loan agreements' (SLAs')
onlending terms and conditions for commercial entities under ongoing IDA
credits, ADB loans and grants/loans from various bilateral donors. The SLA
issue was satisfactorily resolved for IDA credits before Board presentation,
and the Credit was declared effective in June 1989.
3 Respectively, Bangladesh Gas Fields Company Limited, Bakhrabad Gas Systems
Limited, Titas Gas Transmission anad Distribution Company.



- 20 -
50.   The second (and final) tranche review mission took place in December
1989 as planned. Although progress in implementing several important areas of
GOB's energy sector reform program (e.g., electricity tariffs, power system
losses and Petrobangla reorganization) appeared to be satisfactory,
performance fell short of agreed targets in other areas, including agreement
on the FY90-92 PIP for energy, natural gas and petroleum product price
adjustments, BPDB reorganization and energy sector entities' accounts
receivable. In addition, the country's de;eriorating macroeconomic management
had become a matter of concern. By mid-April 1990, GOB had made substantial
progresA in complying with the outstanding tranche release conditions; and in
early May, agreement was reached among GOB, IMF and IDA on the Policy
Framework Paper for FY91-93. In addition, GOB agreed to increase gas prices
(.ncluding prices to fertilizer manufacturers) in July 1990 as part of its
FY91 Budget package and to allow the gas companies to retain the full amount
of the increase. Accordingly, given Bangladesh's critical foreign exchange
situation, IDA's Board waived a condition which required the gas price
increase be actually implemented before second tranche release, and approved
the tranche release in June. The tranche was fully disbursed and the Credit
closed on July 3, 1990.
51.   GOB subsequently followed through with the explicit actions agreed as
part of the second tranche release, including the gas price increase on July
1, 1990; at the same time, it increased electricity tariffs and acted promptly
in adjusting petroleum product prices in response to the Gulf crisis. Annual
review of the three-year rolling PIP has become a regular feature of IDA's
involvement in the Bangladesh energy sector; in addition, the formulation of a
priority investment pzogram for energy has provided a useful model followed in
GOB's recent effort to develop a prioritized countrywide public investment
program for FY91-93. Progress on the institutional front, however, has not
been sustained, particularly in the case of BPDB--implementation of the BPDB
reorganization has encountered significant delays because of a lack of
government and implementing entity commitment, and BPDB's financial situation
has deteriorated to crisis levels (in fact, it now appears that the data
showing improvements under the ESAC were incorrect). Implementation of the
Petrobangla reorganization has also encountered difficulties.
ESAC Obiectives and Conditionality
52.   The ESAC has assisted GOB in the extension and refinement of its energy
policy as outlined in its Letter of Sectoral Policy and in implementing this
policy. As noted above, however, actions pertaining to investment planning
and pricing policy have been more effective than those directed toward
institutional strengthening. The difference may in part be the degree of
government commitment required and the relative ease with which the actions
can be monitored by IDA. While price increases are nearly always politically
difficult and the populace is likely to protest to some extent, the changes
required under the ESAC were not too extreme, GOB is accustomed to dealing
with price adjustments, and they are relatively easy for IDA and IMF to
monitor. As for the investment planning actions, these were mostly of a
technical assistance nature; even so, the entities themselves need to take a
more responsible role in the planning process instead of leaving it to IDA and
other donors. On the institutional front, progress has been very slow--
institutional changes in an entity such as BPDB, where the management is weak,
the unions strong and the changes to be effected substantial, require
considerable commitment by GOB and BPDB management if they are to move beyond



- 21 -
deciding to effect the reorganization on paper to actually implementing the
changes. The commitment to reorganize BPDB and improve its financial
performance was not there; given the 20-month lapse between ESAC negotiations
and Board presentation, IDA staff should have recognized this and pressed GOB
harder on this point. GOB is also only now following through its commitment
to reduce direct government involvement in Petrobangla's OCs; IDA staff should
have monitored this more closely.
53.   The ESAC has been successful in helping to establish a policy framework
as a basis for IDA lending for specific energy investments. Although this has
not meant that investment operations go ahead without any policy-related
conditionality (in fact, delays in presenting the ESAC to IDA's Board delayed
the processing of the 16 Towns Project and was partly responsible for IDA's
proposed Petroleum Technical Development Project ultimately being dropped), it
has meant they have a common starting point, agreed with GOB, from which to
build further conditionality. Thus, the ESAC has helped to bring about a more
coordinated and integrated approach to the sector's development--among IDA
staff, between IDA and other donors, and to a lesser extent, within GOB. As
for facilitating GOB's overall adjustment effort, adjustments in energy prices
and actions to improve cost recovery and financial performance of sector
entities under the ESAC have supported GOB's domestic resource mobilization
efforts; and substitution of indigenous natural gas for imported oil, pricing
policies to discourage uneconomic consumption and energy imports, and
formulation of a least-cost investment program have supported GOB's efforts to
strengthen its balance of payments.
54. The main actions under the ESAC were taken in the course of preparing
the adjustment program (i.e., before Board presentation) and as conditions of
second tranche release. Annex 1 in Part III gives a summary assessment of the
progress in implementing the ESAC's specific conditions. There were fifteen
conditions of negotiations/Board presentation/Credit effectiveness (3/11/1,
respectively), eleven conditions of second tranche release and nine dated
covenants/other conditions. Board presentation was held up for some twenty
months pending GOB's meeting the Board presentation conditions, the main
constraints being the energy sector entities' financial situation and progress
in the BPDB and Petrobangla reorganizations. As for the second tranche
release, data submitted by GOB within four months of the tranche review
mission showed it to be in compliance or substantially in compliance with nine
of the tranche release conditions and eight of the dated covenants/other
conditions (and in partial compliance with the two remaining tranche release
conditions and not in compliance with the remaining dated covenant). However,
it now appears that BPDB was, in fact, not in compliance with three of the
tranche release conditions (rate of return, system losses, accounts
receivable), and is still not in compliance with these and is in partial
compliance with the covenant on the BPDB reorganization. Moreover, recent
data provided by Petrobangla's gas companies indicate sustainability of
compliance is a problem for the gas companies' accounts receivable;
achievement of the gas companies' self-financing targets and implementation of
the Petrobangla reorganization have also not been fully satisfactory. Given
the present state of knowledge, it appears that the second tranche should not
have been released.



- 22 -
Performance of the Government and IDA
55.   The Government's Performance under the ESAC has been mixed.  During
Credit preparation and negotiation, there was a sense of interest and
cooperation. The Bangladesh Energy Sector Working Group performed quite well
in taking an integrated approach to developing and beginning to implement an
energy sector reform program. During the twenty months between negotiations
and Board presentation, however, attention shifted to individual conditions
under the Credit and the actions needed to bring GOB into compliance with
them. While discussions with GOB were often protracted, there still seemed to
be a conscious effort to carry through with the operation with a view to
improving the energy sector's performance. The second tranche review mission
came just six months after Credit effectiveness (eight months after Board) and
found GOB in compliance with only about half of the tranche release
conditions. Over the next four months, GOB made a considerable effort to
bring itself into compliance, the country's pressing need for balance-of-
payments support being a driving force. In retrospect, it appears that this
was che primary motivation, and that at least on the institutional side, the
previous Government lacked the requisite commitment to effect the
institutional changes and financial improvements which had been agreed for
BPDB and the Petrobangla group of companies. Moreover, GOB was careless in
verif-ing the reliability of the data provided by the implementing agencies,
at least in the case of BPDB, and therefore transmitted erroneous data to IDA
in support of the tranche release conditions. Loss of momentum in the lapsed
period between negotiations and Board presentation, as well as relatively
frequent changes in senior government appointments over the life of the ESAC,
may also have contributed to the poor performance on the institutional front.
56. While the new Government seems to recognize the seriousness of these
issues and the need for change, it has asked for time for the political
situation to settle and is only now beginning to initiate some of the
necessary actions. In the meantime, disbursements under IDA's 16 Towns
Project and new lending by IDA and other major donors for the power subsector
have been suspended, and the extension of the Credit closing date for IDA's
Second Gas Project was made contingent on GOB's taking certain key actions
with regard to the gas subsector. GOB should also be encouraged to take a
more integrated approach to investment planning for gas and power, perhaps
through formation of an engineering/planning group involving MEMR, Petrobangla
and BPDB. The shortcomings in GOB's monitoring of the use of Credit proceeds,
including procurement under the Credit and timely preparation of satisfactory
audit reports, are discussed in paras. 61-62 and 64 below.
57. As for IDA's performance under the ESAC, a large multi-sectoral team was
assembled for the Credit's preparation/appraisal/negotiation, and considerable
time was spent with GOB (BESWG) in *reparing the energy sector reform program.
This included reviewing GOB's existing energy policy as well as the results of
numerous studies/actions carried out under earlier projects; identifying
issues requiring further examination during ESAC preparation and
implementation; carrying out such work or assisting in the drafting of terms
of reference/implementation support/discussion of results for technical
assistance financed by other donors; and drawing up an energy sector policy
agenda which identified the main issues facing its development and outlined
the actions to be taken together with a timetable for implementation. IDA
staff also worked closely with the various energy sector entities in preparing
a priority investment program and financing plan for the sector for FY88-90,



- 23 -
and in drawing up action plans to reduce system losses and accounts receivable
and implement the BPDB and Petrobangle reorganizations. IDA staff continued
to provide this type of assistance throughout the twenty months between
negotiations and Board presentation and at the time of the second tranche
review mission, and are continuing to provide it up to the present.
Throughout the process, there was close coordination with the main donors for
energy in Bangladesh. Two formal coodination meetings were held in Dhaka, one
during the preappraisal and the second during the appraisal of the ESAC;
meetings were also held with individual donors/small groups of donors as
necessary. The result is much closer coordination among the donors in the
energy sector today.
58.   In the twenty months between negotiations and Board presentation,
discussions with GOB were generally carried out in conjunction with other
power and petroleum missions (one "post-negotiations" mission was carried out
in July 1988). In addition to IDA's somewhat losing its integrated approach
to the ESAC during this period, there was an increased tendency to give more
attention to the power issues, attributable in part to the perception that the
power subsector's performance was considerably worse than that of the
petroleum subsector and to the change in staffing for the petroleum subsector
during the Bank's 1987 reorganization (the task manager and power staff
remained the same). This tendency persisted to some extent through the second
tranche review mission and may have indirectly contributed, for example, to
GOB's failure to follow through on its commitments under the Petrobangla
reorganization. Having a deputy task manager responsible for the petroleum
subsector might have been helpful. Alternatively, it might have been
desirable to have split the Credit into two operations, one for power and one
for petroleum (this may also have made it more manageable from GOB's
perspective); however, the advantage of the integrated approach would then
have been lost.
59. While there were a large number of conditions under the ESAC end the
Credit was quite heavily front-end loaded, considerable assistance was
provided to GOB during the preparatory stages including extensive use of
action plans to guide GOB in meeting the targets. This appeared to make the
conditionality reasonably manageable in the early stages of the Credit.
Nevertheless, based on the ESAC's somewhat disappointing final results,
particularly with respect to BPDB's performance, it may be concluded that it
would have been more effective to take a more focussed approach, concentrating
for example on BPDB's system losses as a first step. Without GOB's and BPDB's
commitment to address the issue, however, this would not have been any more
effective. It may also be noted that during supervision, the energy sector
entities themselves expressed frustration (even resentment) that the Credit
proceeds were for general imports rather than targeted for the energy sector
(this had been decided by GOB early in the Credit's processing); this too may
have affected the entities' commitment to fulfill the ESAC conditions. While
it is planned to follow up the policy reforms initiated under the ESAC in the
context of traditional project operations (e.g., the recently approved LPG
Project and the proposed Power Rehabilitation (FY921 and Gas Infrastructure
Development (FY93] Projects), sector investment credits are also under
consideration for the longer term (e.g., proposed Power Sector Investment and
Petroleum Sector Development Projects (FY94-95]).



- 24 -
60.   Total staff inputs4 for the ESAC through Board presentation were 233
staffweeks (swks), including 43 swks for negotiations/post-negotiations
(details are in Part III, Table 1); this compares with an average of 120
swks/project (averaged across all types of lending operations) for Bangladesh
over the last three years. The 190 swks required for preparation/appraisal of
the ESAC can be attributed to the large multi-sectoral team needed to prepare
the project (the first of its kind in the sector) and the extensive assistance
IDA provided to GOB during the preparatory stages. The 43 swks for negotia-
tions/post-negotiations is due to the 20-month lapse between negotiations and
Board presentation, and the need for IDA staff to continuously monitor GOB's
progress in meeting the Board presentation conditions and to assist GOB in its
efforts to do so, as well as to do a certain amount of re-negotiation of the
conditionality under the Credit during this period. As for supervision, staff
inputs over the life of the Credit were 32 swks, of which 27 swks were in
FY90; this compares with a yearly supervision coefficient of about 10
swks/project for Bangladesh over the last three years. Only one supervision
mission was carried out in FY90 for the ESAC, the purpose being to review
GOB's progress in carrying out its energy sector reform program prior to the
second tranche release. The relatively high supervision time can be
attributed to the multi-sectoral nature of the mission and the large number of
conditions/complex issues associated with the second tranche release. In
fact, the supervision staffweeks are probably understated in that ESAC
conditionaliiy was frequently supervised informally with other projects, both
ongoing and under preparation, in the sector. A notable shortcoming of IDA's
supervision was in the monitoring of the use of Credit proceeds including
procurement (paras. 61-62); at the minimum, a post-disbursement review of
purchases under the first tranche should have been carried out before
recommending release of the second tranche. The participation of Resident
Mission staff in preparation (34 swks undiscounted) and supervision (12 swks
undiscounted) of the ESAC5 was important in following up understandings
reached during the relatively short missions of Headquarters staff to Dhaka
and in maintaining contact with GOB.
Other Aspects of the Credit
Use of Credit Proceeds. Procurament, Disbursement and Audit
61. Restrictions on the use of Credit proceeds under the ESAC followed those
of previous adjustment operations for Bangladesh (Industrial Sector Credit--
ISC/Cr.1816-BD and recent IPCs). Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement specified inter alia that Credit proceeds were to be used to finance
any imports of goods other than those included in a shortlist of ineligible
items, that not more than 25% of the proceeds were to be used to finance the
import of any commodity/group of commodities falling within a single two-digit
Division of the Standard International Trade Classification (SITC, Revision
2), and that proceeds were to be used to finance axpenditures through the
secondary exchange market (SEM) to support GOB's policy of liberalizing its
foreign exchange market system. About 94% of the Credit proceeds were used by
4 Unless indicated otherwise, staffweek measures include local higher level
staff and local consultants discounted at 4:1 ratio.
5 21 swks and 9 swks, respectively, including local higher level staff
and local consultants discounted at 4:1 ratio.



- 25 -
the public sector mainly for imports of crude oil, petroleum products and
food, and only about 6% were used by the private sector for spare parts and
general materials/equipment. Bangladesh Bank (BB) issued a foreign exchange
circular (F.E. Circular No. 48, dated December 10, 1989, later modified by
F.E. Circular No. 13, dated April 2, 1990) notifying private sector industries
of the availability of the funds through the SEM and of procedures for their
use, nearly six months after the Credit was declared effective; earlier
issuance of the notice, e.g. by Credit effectiveness, might have facilitated
greater private sector use of Credit proceeds. The SITC ceilings under the
Credit were violated in that about 72% of the proceeds were used to finance
crude oil and petroleum products which come under a single SITC Division
(Division 33); neither BB nor IDA had a satisfactory monitoring system in
place to prevent this occurring (para. 62).
62.   Procurement requirements under the ESAC were essentially the same as
under the ISC, but were considerably more lenient than under the IPCs in terms
of contract limits and review procedures. Procurement procedures/monitoring
requirements were clearly indicated in Schedule 3 to the DCA and in the
President's Report. About 94% of the Credit proceeds were disbursed against
some thirty contracts, each over US$ 2 million, for commodity purchases
(including crude oil, petroleum products, rice and soybean oil). The
remainder was disbursed against contracts below US$ 2 million, including a
small amount (about US$ 500,000) in the form of Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs). During preparation of the PCR, IDA staff (Washington and the Resident
Mission) carried out a post-disbursement review in which all procurement
documents submitted in support of withdrawal applications under the Credit
were reviewed to ensure that Drima facie they were in line with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines as amended in the DCA. The documentation submitted by
GOB was found to be generally satisfactory and to support the proposed
withdrawals, although some minor inconsistencies were noted and bid
invitations/evaluations were generally not included in the supporting
documentation. However, the ex-post review showed that BB's and IDA's
monitoring of procurement during project implementation was inadequate, and
procedures need to be put in place for ongoing/future adjustment operations to
ensure that BB and IDA monitor SITC aggregations and use of the SEM, BB
submits all supporting documentation with its withdrawal applications, and IDA
carries out prior-disbursement reviews of large contracts (e.g., US$ 5 million
under the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit). In addition, post-disbursement
reviews should be carried out as part of tranche release reviews.
63.   The Credit was available for disbursement in two tranches: the first
tranche of SDR 58.7 million (US$ 75.0 million equivalent) upon Credit
effectiveness, and the second of SDR 78.3 million (US$ 100.0 million
equivalent) subject to IDA being satisfied, following a review by December 31,
1989, that GOB was following sound energy policies including meeting the
agreed conditions for second tranche release as detailed in Schedule 1 to the
DCA (see also Part III, Annex 1). The original Credit amount (SDR 137.0
million) was supplemented by Bangladesh's allocation of the FY90 IDA Reflows;
the additional SDR 1.8 million (US$ 2.3 mill-'.on equivalent), approved by IDA's
Board in October 1989, was disbursed as part of the first tranche. The Credit
was declared effective on June 5, 1989, and US$ 30.0 million equivalent was
disbursed to the Special Account; the first tranche was fully disbursed on May
23, 1990. Although the release of the second tranche was delayed by abot1t
four months (June 15, 1990) pending GOB's compliance with tranche release
conditions, the Credit proceeds were fully disbursed by July 3, 1990, some



26 -
eighteen months ahead of the closing date. GOB had submitted withdrawal
applications for the full arnount of the second tranche well in advance of its
approval; hence, the Special Account was not utilized for the second tranche.
Expected and actual annual disbursements are shown in Part III, Table 1.
64.   In accordance with Section 4.01 of the DCA, annual audits of the project
records/accounts were required to be submitted to IDA within six months of the
end of the fiscal year concerned. The first audit report (prepared by GOB's
Directorate of Audit, Foreign Aided Projects) was received in late April 1991.
While the audit report ostensibly covered the full amount of the Credit, it
was unacceptable due to a number of deficiencies--for example, the overall
certification was given as an unqualified opinion and yet the audit report
failed to comment on several important aspects including whether Credit
proceeds were used as intended, procurement procedures were followed and any
covenants were violated (e.g., SITC ceilings); the opinion on the Special
Account was incomplete, and there was no separate opinion on SOEs; and there
were several inaccuracies in the report. GOB has been informed of these
deficiencies and agreed to submit a revised/complete audit report for the
Credit to IDA by October 31, 1991.6 While both GOB and IDA overlooked the due
date for the first audit report (December 31, 1989), attributable in part to
the fact that the only disbursement in FY89 was the initial deposit for the
Special Account in late June, power sector missions reminded GOB regularly of
subsequent audit reports in their Aide Memoires beginning in July 1990. The
poor quality of the audit report raises the question whether IDA should
consider developinZ technical assistance to strengthen GOB's audit
capabilities.
Cofinancing Support for the ESAC
65.   Cofinancing support for the ESAC has been both indirect and direct.  As
noted in para. 11, substantial technical assistance was provided during
preparation of the ESAC and in implementing the reform program by UNDP and
various bilateral donors including ODA and USAID. In addition, KfW and OECF
have respectively decided c provide, through parallel financing under terms
and conditions similar to thase for the ESAC, a grant of DM 26 million (about
US$ 15 million equivalent) and r loan of Yen 3.8 billion (about US$ 27 million
equivalent) to finance general imports. For various reasons, not all of which
were related to the energy sector reform program itself, both donors drew up
their respective agreements with GOB only relatively recently. While OECF's
agreement was signed in October 1990, the funds have yet to be released;
signature of KfW's agreement is pending satisfactory resolution of the SLA
issue (para. 49) with respect to KfW's earlier projects. Following a joint
IDA/ADB power sector mission to Dhaka in November 1990, during which the
deteriorating financial situation of BPDB was discussed with GOB and various
donors (including KfW and OECF), the release of funds under these agreements
has been held up pending GOB's taking concrete actions to address the power
sector's financial problems and the sector's beginning to show improved
performance. Comments on the PCR from KfW and OECF are included in the
Attachment.
6 The revised audit report has subsequently been received and is under
review.



- 27 -
C. Main Lessons Learned
66.   The above assessment of the ESAC has highlighted lessons in six areas
relating to: (a) government commitment; (b) type of lending instrument; (c)
Credit conditionality and use of action plans; (d) implementation and
coordination arrangements (both for policy issues and for use of Credit
proceeds/procurement); (e) complementarity with other investments and
programs; and (f) enhancing donor coordination.
Government Commitment
67.   Insufficient government and implementing entity commitment was a
constraint on all aspects of the ESAC's institutional strengthening component.
In the case of Petrobangla, GOB was unwilling to relinguish its direct
involvement in the gas companies' operations and to provide the technical
assistance required to operationalize the agreed reform objectives. In the
case of BPDB, BPDB's commitment to its reorganization was weak at best, and
IDA (and possibly GOB) underestimated the political difficulty of effecting
the reforms (i.e., the strength of the labor unions); it is now clear that
without GOB's active political backing and solid commitment of BPDB
management, it will not be possible to implement the reorganization nor will
it be possible to address BPDB's system losses and collections problems.
Commitment has also been lacking in GOB's efforts to address the accounts
receivable problems of the energy sector entities, the primary emphasis being
on meeting the required targets rather than implementing measures to improve
collections; hence improvements in the level of accounts receivable have not
been sustained. Thorough efforts are needed from the very beginning to build
and test commitment at both the political and technical levels in the
Government and implementing entities, such that they own, understand, accept
and act on the proposed reforms and implementation plans. Government and
entity management should, in turn, educate the public and the concerned
employees and provide further reassurances throughout the process. Once the
necessary decisions are in place, implementation must be done as quickly as
possible and with the requisite technical assistance.
Tyne of Lending Instrument
68. Consistent with IDA's strategy for Bangladesh at the time and with GOB's
need for balance-of-payments support, it was decided early in the ESAC's
processing that it would be a fast-disbursing adjustment operation and the
Credit proceeds would be used to finance general imports. Given the nature of
the reforms being sought, particularly in the institutional strengthening
area, it might have been preferable to have used a slow-disbursing adjustment
operation, sector investment credit, or some combination thereof which would
have had a longer disbursement timeframe. Greater commitment on the part of
the concerned energy sector entities might also have been forthcoming if at
least a part of the Credit proceeds had been used to support energy-related
investments. Based on implementation experience under the ESAC, it is planned
to follow up the initiated reforms in the context of traditional project
operations in the near term and possibly sector investment credits over the
longer term.



- 28 -
Credit Conditionality and Use of Action Plans
69. The conditions under the ESAC included the achievement of specific
targets (pertaining, e.g., to energy prices, system losses and accounts
receivable), implementation of agreed action plans (pertaining, e.g., to the
Petrobangla and BPDB reorganizations), and provision of investment plans,
results of studies, etc. to IDA for review and subsequent implementation;
action plans were also used to guide GOB in meeting some of the covenanted
targets. GOB's performance in implementing the more straightforward
conditions relating to energy pricing and investment planning was good, while
its performance in implementing the more complicated institutional reforms was
poor, particularly in BPDB's case. As noted above, government and
implementing entity commitment was a major factor in the poor performance on
the institutional front. At the same time, the design of the action
plans/Credit conditionality and weaknesses in IDA's monitoring may also have
been contributing factors. In the case of Petrobangla, for example, IDA
should have pressed for GOB's agreement up-front on the use of consultants to
work with entity management and staff in implementing the reform program, anid
the action plan should have included implementation of key actions under the
Systems Plan. In some cases, the need to achieve specific targets under the
Credit overshadowed--from IDA's perspective as well as that of GOB--longer
term efforts to address the cause of the problem, thereby precluding the
sustainability of improvements (e.g., insufficient attention has been focused
on the collections problem in the energy sector as contrasted with the
sector's excessive accounts receivable). In the case of BPDB, earlier
recognition of the political difficulty of the proposed reform program might
have led to a more focused approach, probably concentrating on BPDB's system
losses as a first step, which might have been more effective. Use of
carefully designed and closely monitored action plans nevertheless remains the
primary instrument by which institutional change can be effected in
Bangladesh; this will require intensive supervision by IDA staff.
Implementation and Coordination Arrangements
70. During Credit preparation and negotiation, GOB's Bangladesh Energy
Sector Working Group, comprised of senior officers from the participating
ministries and energy sector entities and chaired by the Secretary MEMR,
performed quite well in taking an integrated approach to developing and
beginning to implement an energy sector reform program. In the twenty months
between negotiations and Board presentation, however, attention shifted to
individual conditions under the Credit and the actions needed to bring GOB
into compliance with them. It was this attitude that largely prevailed
throughout Credit implementation. Retaining a formal working group, such as
the BESWG, throughout implementation might have helped to sustain the momentum
for the reform program and thus improved the effectiveness of its implementa-
tion. On IDA's side, having a deputy task manager for the petroleum subsector
might have resulted in more effective implementation of the gas subsector
reforms.
71. GOB's and IDA's monitoring of the use of Credit proceeds, including
procurement under the Credit, fell notably short of standard Bank requirements
for adjustment operations (the attention of both sides being mainly directed
toward monitoring implementation of the energy sector reform program). The
post-disbursement review carried out by IDA staff during preparation of the
PCR showed that for ongoing/future adjustment operations in Bangladesh,



- 29 -
procedures need to be put into place to ensure that Bangladesh Bank and IDA
monitor SITC aggregations and use of the SEM, BB submits all supporting
documentation (including in particular bid inv_tations/evaluations) with its
withdrawal applications, and IDA carries out prior-disbursement reviews of
large contracts (e.g., US$ 5 million under the FSC). It is also proposed that
post-disbursement reviews be made a regular pert of tranche release reviews.
Complementaritv with Other Investments and Programs
72.   The ESAC has been successful in helping to establish a policy framework
as a basis for IDA's lending for specific energy investments. Although this
has not meant that iuivestment operations go ahead without any policy-related
conditionality (in fact, delays in presenting the ESAC to IDA's Board delayed
the processing !-i traditional energy projects), it has meant they have a
common startin& point, which has already been agreed with GOB, from which to
build further conditionality. In fact, given the ESAC's short disbursement
period (twelve months between Credit effectiveness and closing), future
credits will have to be used to follow up the actions initiated under the
ESAC. Thus, the ESAC has helped to bring about a more coordinated and
integrated approach to the sector's development--among IDA staff, between IDA
and other donors, and to a lesser extent, within GOB. In addition, the
development of a three-year rolling energy sector PIP has )rovided a useful
model followed in GOB's recent effort to prioritize its entire public
investment program.
Enhancing Donor Coordination
73.   The ESAC proved to be an effective vehicle for enhancing donor
coordination in the energy sector, particularly in the power subsector. This
began during Credit preparation and has continued to the present. Frequent
consultations between IDA staff and the other major donors in the sector, as
well as the formal donor coordination meetings held during the preappraisal
and appraisal missions, have contributed to this process.
74.   Other lessons drawn from the ESAC include: (a) BB's earlier issuance,
e.g., by Credit effectiveness, of its foreign exchange circular, notifying the
private sector of the availability of the funds and of procedures for their
use, might have facilitated greater private sector use of Credic proceeds; (b)
the need for a Special Account under future credits may be reconsidered as the
Credit proceeds were primarily used to reimburse GOB for past expenditures on
eligible imports; and (c) the poor quality of the audit report for the ESAC
raises the question whether IDA should consider developing technical
assistance to strengthen GOB's audit capabilities.



- 30 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1999-BD)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Government's contribution to the PCR was prepared by MEMR in two parts,
one for the power subsector and one for the natural resources subsector. The
text below is as received from the Borrower; its contents are not attributable
to IDA.
Power Subsector
The following objectives were addressed to under Energy Sector
Adjustment Credit (ESAC) financed by IDA:
(a) energy resource development and investment;
(b) energy pricing and demand management; and
(c) institutional performance and development.
These were in tune with the objectives as enunciated in GOB's Third Five
Year Plan (TFYP) namely as: (a) to accelerate the development of domestic
natural gas resources to reduce the country's dependence on imported oil; (b)
to adjust energy prices to promote its efficiency and economic use, taking
into account social objectives; (c) to meet energy demand at least cost to the
economy; (d) to improve reliability and quality of power supply and reduce
system losses; (e) to improve energy sector entities financial performance and
mobilize resources required to meet Bangladesh's development goals; and (f) to
encourage private sector participation in the encrgy sector's development,
especially in exploration for oil and gas.
Energy Resource Development and Investment. In energy sector,
investment in power sub-sector is more capital intensive and demand of
electrical power rises more rapidly than other energy sector demands. The
gestation periods for power station project5 are rather longer specially in
the context of Bangladesh where external assistance is a sine-qua-non for
their establishment. The same for transmission and distribution projects is
also considerable though not as longer as the case of power stations. Under
the circumstances, the 3 year PIP addressed by ESAC augurs well for
identification of essential programme for project implementation during this
time frame. The thread is to be picked up during the time horizon of
subsequent tolling programme. This planning philosophy is giving important
signal in allocation of GOB's scarce local resources. The long term
investment plan is to be conceived of and developed in the light of
experiences gained during 3 year PIP. The development of long term investment
plan is equally important like 3 years PIP especially in the power sector as
explained earlier. Quality of 3 year PIP depends on the formulation of a
viable long term plan covering at least 10 years. BPDB made a long term Power
System Master Plan (PSMP) in 1985 covering a period up to 2005. This needs
updating as quickly as possible so that it can generate essential informations
for preparation of more realistic 3 years PIPs. It can, therefore, be said
that the concept of PIP as conceived of by ESAC, augurs well for the
development of long term investment plan for power sub-sector.



- 31 -
Enerav Pricing and Demand Management. Power tariff has been
significantly raised during 1985-90 period though national economic growth was
not achieved so much. Though the tariff is yet to reach LRMC-based position,
it may not be justified to increase tariff so rapidly. The rate of return
target could be achieved even with the existing tariff provided the BPDB
management is strengthened, system loss reduced and accounts receivable
improved. ESAC has addressed these issues very seriously and quite adequately
though remedial measures are yet to be implemented. Political situations and
natural disasters like floods and cyclones occurring during ESAC
implementation period are also to be kept in view. Demand management through
tariff mechanism in a developing country like Bangladesh is not the only way
out. Commercial ahops and industries not running ir. three shifts can be asked
to avoid consumption of electricity during evening peak hour. Irrigation
pumps can work during off peak hours. In the present socio economic
conditions of Bangladesh demand management through pricing only becomes
difficult in attaining the goals of the commercial operation.
Institutional Strengthening. Major reorganizational steps have been
recommended by ESAC for strengthening of planning, management efficiency and
financial viability of power sector entities. This reorganizational issues
preparatory works leading to implementation of the actual reorganizaticn based
on a dated action plan were not adequate and wisely prepared for such a
sensitive issue. Union influence should have been considered in designing
reorganizational steps and procedures. Major political change in the country
took place during ESAC implementation when firm steps by Government at times
were not feasible in true perspective. But it is correct to say that
identification of steps suggested by ESAC to improve financial and structural
positions of the energy sector entities are in right direction and necessary.
Measures suggested by ESAC for institutional strengthening are no doubt, aimed
at bringing about substantial improvement in this field but call for good deal
of persuasion to convince the labour leaders of their salutary effects on
management as a whole.
Findings and Lessons Learned. GOB is fully committed to BPDB's
reorganization, reduction of system loss and improvement of accounts
receivable. Constitution of a steering committee at the Ministry level with
Additional Secretary as the convener to monitor implementation of APPI
programme, constitution of a supervisory system loss task force with JS(P)1
as convener and special drive for the realization of arrear dues from the
consumers are indicative of GOB's commitment in this respect.
There is such (sic) room for improvement in the Government machinery in
Bangladesh. Coordinated actions are very often necessary by various
Ministries like Finance, Planning and Implementing Ministries. Such
coordination if improved can help to avoid delay in implementation. Task
manager approach with high level counterpart in the Government may help.
1 Joint Secretary (Power).



- 32 -
Natural Resources Subsector
Comments on relevant sections of PCR.
Evaluation Summary   : Sections vi & vii    : No comment
Part I
Page 7 to 13          : Sections 19 to 33    : No comment
Page 16 to 17         : Sections 42 to 43    : No comment
Section 44            : Regarding subsidiary company
Board formation, Petrobangla has
al:eady initiated action. As
for formation of a transmission
company, this will be reviewed
in due time.2
Sections 45 to 48    : No comment
Part III
Annex - 1   : A.  Energy Resource Development
and Investment
Section 2                   : Consultants have found
extraction of coal from
Barapukuria to be technically
feasible despite overlain water
logging and thickness of coal
seam. With normal cost
parameters as are used in the
PP3 the project is also
financially viable.
B. Energy Pricing and Demand
Management
Sections 2 to 64            : No comment
C. Institutional Performance
and Development
Sections 3, 5, 6b5          : No comment
2 Initiation of formation of OCs' Boards has been reflected in the final draft
of Part I (para. 44), along with the fact that Petrobangla is now actively
proceeding with the formation of a National Gas Transmission Company.
3 Project Proforma.
4 Cross-reference should be Sections 2 to 4.
5 Cross reference should be Sections 3, 4b, c.



- 33 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORHATION



- 34 -                                                     TABLE 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1999-BD)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Amount (USS Million)
As of 06/30/91
Oiuinai         Disbursd        Cancelled    Repaid   Outatandien
Credit No. 1999-BD                 177.3 Ia         179.45 /b        0          0          199.74
Orfiinal Date                Actual Date
Initiating Memoandum                              02/12/87                   02/12/87
L"tter of Sectoral Policy                         09/29/S7                   01/19/89
Negotiations                                      07/22V87                    07/22/87  c
Bord Approval                                     04/11/89                   04/11/89
Crdiit Agreement                                  04126/89                    04/26/89
Effectivens                                       06/27189                   06/05/89
Crcdit Closing                                    12/31/91                    07/03/90
Actual Completion                                                             07/03/90
CUMULATIVE CREDIT DISURSEMENT
FY89            FY90       FY91
(1) Plnnd d/a                                        0.00           117.30      60.00
(1i) Actual                                         30.00           147.56       1.89
(ii) (i) as % of (i)                                                125.80       3.15
MISSION DATA /d
No. of     No. of     Date of
Montb. Yc r           Weeks      Perona       Revo
Peprtion                                     May 1986                   2          12    11/14/S6
Preppmrai                                    December 1986             2.1          9       /c
Appai                                        March 19S7                2.2         10   041091S7
Post-egotiations                             July 1988                 2.5          7    07/29/88
supervison                                   December 1989             2.2          7    01/11/90
STAFFWEEKS If
FY86             FY87            FY88        FY89        FY90     FY91      Total
Project Preparation/Appralal        58.6             131.9                                                      190.5
Negotiations/Post-ncgotiationa                         1.0            21.6       20.2                            42.8
Supervision                                                                        1.1       27.0       3.9      32.0
Projct Completion Report                                                                               10.8      10.8
Total                         58.6            132.9            21.6                    27.0     14 7     276.1
FOLLOW-ON ADJUSTMENT OPERATIONS
It is plaied to foliow up the policy rmforms initiated under tbhe ZSJC In the context of traditional project operations in the near term (e.g., the recently
approved LPO Project and proposed Power Rchabilitation [FY921 and (hs Infstructure Development [FY93] Projects) and posibly setor investment
credits over te longer term (e.g.. proposd Power Sector Investment and Petroleum Sector Development Projects [PY94-95f).
/a The original Credit amount, USS175.0 millon equivalent. was supplemented by sgbladesbi allocation of the FY90 IDA reflows. US$2.3 million
equivalot.
lb Differences betwecn the disburned and original amount of the Ctedit are due to changes in SDR to USS valuation.
/c Amended Minu?s of Ncgotiations dated 03/07/89.
/d Includec oily main inissions. Additional misions carried out with other power/petrolcum minions throughout ESAC prepation and supervision.
/a Initiating memorandum was prepared following mission.
/f Includes local higher level stff and local cenulrtants discounted at 41 ratio.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BAUNLADESH
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTHENT CREDIT
I(REDIT 1999-BD)
ESAC CONDITIONS AND ACTIONS TAKEN
A. EneraY Resource Develoonent and Investment
Policy Area       Re'. 1/           Condition 2J                                                  Action TakenICurrent Status J
1.  Development
of long-term
least-cost
development
plans.
a. for            1, 6      Borrower to prepare and    in 1986, with financing from UNDP and USAID, IDA collaborated with Argonne National Laboratories (U.S.) in
BPDB                    furnish to IDA, not         preparing an interim least cost power generation expansion plan for use in formulating marginal cost bascd
later than April 30,       tariffs under the power tariff study (policy area B.1.) to ensure consistency between least-cost investment
1989, a long-term          plans arnd economic pricing.  However, the plan needed to be updated and integrated with a teast-cost
least-cost development    development plan for transmission to ensure the efficient and economic delivery of the generared power.  in
plan for power              February 1987 BPDB appointed consultants, under UNDP-financing (with ADS as the executing agency), to
generation and             prepare such a pLan in the context of preparing a feasibility study for a proposed central thermal power         w
transmission and,          project.  The consultants suibmitted their draft final report in October 1988.  IDA and ADS reviewed the         v
thereafter, to carry       report in January 1989 and found it to be satisfactory.  covenant status at time of second tranche release
out such plan taking        (June 1990): in compliance.
into account IDA's
coments.                   In looking to the future, a full-scate review and updating of the 20-year Power System Master Plan,
completed in early 1985, is now in order. The UNDP-financed system loss reduction consultants, assisting
BPDB in preparing a plan for the optimal development and renovation of its distribution network, completed
their work in June 1990 (policy area C.2.). Hence, a fully integrated plan, including generation,
transmission and distribution, could be developed to provide the backbone for the power subsector;s
development and the coordinated participation of donors in the procebs. The study could also reassess such
issues as the place of coal and nuclear power in the least-cost program and the use ot combined cycle and
conventional steam units in the further development of the system. ADS interds to grant-finance the
updating of BPOB's Power System Master Plan within the next 1-2 years; IDA will also be closely invotved in
reviewing/discussing the results.
X .
0



b.  for          1, 6       Borrower to (i) prepare   By the mid-1980s, a number of studies pertaining to the subsector's development were underway or planned,
BOGNC                   and furnish to IDA, not   including a Hydrocarbon Habitat Study. Gas-based Projects Feasibitity Study and NationaL Gas Grid Study;
tater than July 31,        following detailed seismic surveys, an appraisal drilling program was also ptanmed for the country's major
1989, a tong-term          gas fieLds to help firm up reserve estimates.  The subsector's development, nevertheless, had been somewhat
teast-cost devetopment     piecemeat, and by the time of the 1987 ESAC appraisal, it was clear that a Long-term strategy was required
plan for the gas            to map out a teast-cost plan for the integrated development of the subsector.  Petrobangla prepared such a
subsector and,             plan and reviewed it with IDA in March 1989, the priority activities of the plan being the continual
thereafter, to carry       appraisal and development of the eastern gas fields, limited exploration with increased participation of
out such plan taking        international oil coppanies, and development of an Integrated transmission system for inclusion in the long-
into account IDA's         term investment plan.  At the same time, IDA reviewed Petrobangla's FY90-94 exploration and development
comments; and (ii) by      program with particular attention to the FY90 program.  IDA staff regularly review these programs with
April 30 of each year,     Petrobangla during IDA petroteum missions.  Covenant status at time of secord tranche release (Jurne 1990):
commencing not later        in compliance.
than April 30, 1989 and
ending April 30, 1992,     The appraisal drilling program under Cr.15B6-BD was completed in 1990, the main findings being that the
review with IDA the        reserves in the northeastern gas fields are larger and contain more natural gas liquids than originally
detailed exploration       estimated.  The key elements of Petrobangla's present devetopment progra. inctude comptetion of the
and development program   associated surface facitities for the northeastern gas fietds and the north-south pipetine tinking the
for the succeeding         fields with Ashuganj in the earty 1990s; construction of the Ashuganj to Bakhrabad and Titas pipetine,
fiscal year and the        drilling of further appraisal/production wetts in the northeastern gas fietds and other known fietds, and
tentative program for      development of associated surface facilities by the mid-1990s; and initiation of exploration dritting for
the subsequent four        new gas fields in the latter-19cjs.  This and the exploration/devetopment program are reviewed 1-2 times a
fiscat years.              year during IDA petroleum missions.  Petrobangla is also continuing to discuss possible
expLoration/expLoitation arrangements with a few interested international oit companies as a resutt of the
1989 petroleum exploration promotion campaign (carried out under Cr.1402-BD). The tong-term devetopment of
the gas subsector, including the early development of the fields rich in naturat gas tiquids, is being
addressed under IDA's ongoing Gas Subsector Review.  Present covenant status: in cozrpLiance.
2.  Assessment         1, 3     Appointment of              The Geological Survey of Bangladesh had located several thick coal seams at depths of less than 200 meters
of                          consultants to              in the Barapukuria area of the Dinjapur District in the west zone of Ban>.adesh.  During preparation of the
feasibiLity/                undertake feasibitity       ESAC, GOB formulated a phased program to evatuate the deposits and to determine their technical, economic
viability of                study of the                and financiat viability.  The consultants (financed by ODA) to carry out the first phase of the feasibility
exptoitation                earapukuria coal            study were appointed in December 1987.  Covenant status at time of Board presentation (April 1989): in
of Bara-                    deposits.                   compliance.
pukuria coal
deposits.
6         Borroder to Ci) carry      The consultant's prefeasibility report was completed in October 1988.  Its preliminary fundings estimated
out, oith the assis-       total potentially mineable resources to be 265 million tons, with an average heat value of 11,400 btulpound.
tance of consultants,      Following a review of the report by GOB, ODA and IDA, it was decided to proceed to a full techno-economic
an evaluation of the       feasibility study in June 1989.  Covenant status at time of second tranche review (June 1990): in
Barapukuria coal           compliance.
deposits to determine
their technical,           The consultants submitted their draft final report in October 1990 and presented their findings in a meeting
economic and financial     (attended by GOB, ODA, IDA and other donors) in Dhaka in November 1990.  The final report was submitted in
viability; (ii) furnish    late March 1991.  IDA's comments based on a preliminary review of the draft finat report have been
to and review with IDA    informally communicated to GOB.  While the study has confirmed large proven reserves of good quality coal,
the consultant's           mining the reserves will be technicaLly difficutt and costty and recovery timited to about 10X of the
interim reports on the    reserves because of the thickness (30-40 meters) and depth (100-400 meters under the surface) of the main
study within six weeks    seam and nature of the overburden (100 meters of water-logged overburden).  Atthough the report is stilt
of their submission;       under review, it would appear that development of the Bara,ukuria deposit is unlikely to be viable for the
and (iii) review with      foreseeable future.  Present covenant status: in compliance.
IDA the consultant's
draft final report of                                                                                                                      X
the study within eight
weeks of its                                                                                                                               0
submission.                                                                                                                                0



3.  Preparation/       1. 2      Submission to IDA of        A primary objective of the ESAC was to promote the integrated and least-cost development of the energy
implementa-                 the Goverument's            sector, through: (i) preparation of long-term development plans (policy area A.1.), supported by (ii) three-
tion of                     proposed FY88-90 PIP        year rolling priority investment programs.  The PIPs were to be based on integrated targets for the energy
priority                    for energy, including a   sector, availability of financial resources ard implementation capabilities of the entities concerned; each
investment                  financing plan, for         year, shortly before the anwual budget exercise, the PIPs were to be updated and rolled forward a year.
program for                 discussion during           During preparation of the ESAC, IDA staff worked closely with the various energy sector entities (including
energy                      negotiations.               BPDB, REB, Petrobangla, BPC, MEKR and Planning Commission) in preparing the first PIP (for FY88-90) and
sector.                                                 sources for its financing.  It comprised the high priority projects crucial for achieving the revised
targets for the remainder of the Third Five Year Plan (FY86-90). GOB's proposed FY8B-90 PIP, together with
its financing plan, was discussed and agreed (with some modifications) during the ESAC negotiations.  It was
further agreed that satisfactory implementation of the PIP for any one year would require actual
expenditures by the energy sector entities on the projects included in the PIP for that year to amount to at
least 85X of the planned expenditures for that year.  Covenant status at time of negotiations (July 1987):
in compliance.
3         Agreement on FY89-91        ImpLementation of the first year of the FYo8-90 PIP was reviewed during a comprehensive post-negotiations
PIP for energy together   mission in July 1988.  Imptementation was found to be generally satisfactory, with overall expenditure on
with its financing         the energy sector projects in FY88 being 94X of that agreed uider the PIP and expenditure in the power and
plan.                      petroleum subsectors being 93X and 982, respectivety, of the agreed levels.  Prior to Board presentation,
agreement was also reached on the PIP for FY89-91, together with its financing plan. In line with GOB's
general reduction in its development program in FY89, the FY89-91 PIP was only about 93X of the FY88-90 PIP.
while the floods in 1987 and 1988 contributed to this trend, it also reflected taOS's overly cautious fiscal
management during this period; this issue was being addressed in our macro-economic dialogue with GOB.
Covenant status at time of Board presentation (April 1989): in compliance.
5         The agreed FY89 PIP for   implementation of the FY89 PIP was reviewed during the second tranche review mission In December 1989 and
energy to have been        was found to be generally satisfactory; actual expenditure as a percentage of agreed planned expenditure was
implemented in a manner   982 for the overall energy sector and 1002 and 902, respectively, for the power and petroleum subsectors.           '
satisfactory to IDA and   In looking at individual entities, REB's actual expenditure in FY89 was only 672 of its planned expenditure,
agreement to have been    but with the problems responsible for the shortfall resolved, it was expected the FY90 targets would be met.
reached on the PIP for    In the case of BPDB, while actual expenditure exceeded that planned by 8X, allocations between major
FY90-92.                   expenditure categories did not always follow the agreed plan (e.g., increased expenditure on generation
projects was accompanied by a substantial reduction in expenditure on transmission projects, although
expenditure on distribution projects was in line with the agreed plan). GOB submitted its FY90-92 PIP for
the energy sector, together with its financing plan, in March 1990.  Planned expenditure under the FY90-92
PIP was about the same as under the previously agreed FY89-91 PIP due to Bangladesh's macro-economic
difficulties and budgetary constraints.  Having swung from an overly conservative to highly expansionary
stance in early FY90, Goa had had to initiate in March 1990 a short-term program to stabilize the economic
situation by tightening fiscal and monetary policy. while the FY90 PIP was satisfactory, the FY91-92 PIP
required some changes in the allocation of resources among expenditure categories (e.g., generation and
transmission) for BPDB and in the level of resources for Petrobangla.  These were discussed with GOB during
subsequent power and petroleum subsector missions and in the course of the countrywide prioritization
exercise carried out by GOB/IDA in FY91 (see para. below). Covenant status at time of second tranche
release (June 1990): substantial compliance.
IP ,
0
t1ft
0l 
C >



6           Borrower to (i) by           Annual review of the three-year rotting PIP has become a regular feature of IDA's involvement in the
April 30 of each year,      Bangladesh energy sector.  In addition, it has provided a useful model which was followed in the broader
commencing not later        enonomy-wide context of prioritizing the public investment program in FY91 (public expenditure
than April 30, 1989 and    rationalization, including prioritization of the public investment program, was one of the key elements of
ending April 30, 1992,      GOB's structural reform program agreed under the May 1990 ESAF).  In the FY91-93 energy sector PIP submitted
review with IDA             to IDA by GOB in January 1991 in conjunction with the above prioritization exercise, the level of resources
irplementation of the       allocated to BPDB (particularly for transmission) and Petrobangla was significantly below that which was
PIP for energy for the      needed to support adequate growth in energy supplies and the economy, and those resources which were
current fiscat year and    available were spread over too many projects, resulting in under-funding of priority projects and delays in
prepare/furnish to IDA      their completion.  Moreover, the mix of local and foreign resources in the investment program in the outer
the PIP, including the      years appeared imbalanced given the extent of donor involvement in the sector and problems with the
sources of finance          availability of domestic funds in the past.  IDA staff, in turn, prepared an indicative program reflecting
thereof, for the subse-    these and other comments on GOB's program.  Although GOB has now agreed to the sector's need for additional
quent three fiscal          resources, the details of the program are still being discussed with the energy sector entities concerned.
years; and (ii) there-      At the time of writing the PCR, complete data was not available on the implementation of the FY90 PIP for
after, timely carry out    the energy sector (the emerging financial and institutional issues in the power sector, discussed under
such programs as agreed    policy areas B.1., C.1, C.3. and C.4., overshadowed IDA staff's monitoring of the FY90 PIP iiplementation).
with IDA.                   Given the country's deteriorating macro-economic situation beginning in early FY90, however, the shortfall
in expenditure for the petroleun subsector (actual expenditure was 78X of that planned) was not surprising.
While Petrobangla has managed low levels of investment in the past by allocating resources to high priority
projects, investment levels will need to be substantially increased if the northeastern gas fields and
integrated transmission system are to be developed in accord with the growing demand for gas, particularly
for power generation and fertilizer production. Present covenant status: partial compliance.
It has also been noted that IDA staff's monitoring of this dated covenant has not been strictly in accord
with the text of the covenant.  That is, in April 1990, implementation of the FY90 PIP and GOB's proposed
FY91-93 PIP should have been reviewed; since this coincided with the time of the second tranche review, IDA    Li
staff reviewed GOB's performance with respect to the second tranche release condition (which called for               ao
review of the FY89 PIP and FY90-92 PIP, respectively).  Following from this, in April 1991, the FY92-94 PIP    I
for the energy sector should have been reviewed when, in fact, the countrywide exercise of reviewing the
FY91-93 PIP was still underway. Consideration may be given under future projects to reviewing the three-
year rolling PIP in accordance with experience under the ESAC as this appears more practicable and yet it
still requires the entities/GOB to plan investments/sources of financing at least two years into the future.
The tables below show the three-year rolling PIPs agreed under the ESAC and the actual implementation of the
energy sector PIPs during FY88-90.
OQ
rDXI
o 
.0
I-



Apreed Priority Investment Programs
(Total Cost in Million Taka)
FY91-93 a/
FY88-90        FY89-91        FY90-92          GnB b/     IDA_jc
BPDB-generation          12,180           8,115        12,610           9,917       10,700
-transmission         5,388           6,664         4.650          4,361         6,400
-distribution        11,283           9,38,         6,609          5,406         6,800
-other                1.591           1.837         1.086          1.390         1.900
-subtotat            30,442          26,003        24,955         21,074        25,800
REB                       3.879           6.201         7.912           6.560        6.550
Subtotal                 34,321          32,204        '2,867          27,634       32,350
Petroleu:
Petrobangla               7,563           6,915         5,770           6,704         na #/
BPC                       1.330           1144            852           1.370         na
Subtotal                  8,893           8,059         6,622           8,074       16,060
Total                      4.1             40.263        39.489          35.708       48.410
g/  FY91-93 includes technical assistance and are in constant prices (FY91);
other years exclude TA and are in current prices.
bI GOB proposal submitted to IDA in January 1991 in coniunction with the countrywide
review of its public irwastment program.
1/  IDA's indicative program for energy as given in Bangladesh: Managing Public Resources
for Niaher Growth, April 19, 1991. Report No. 9379-BD.
yI  Not available.
[lMementation of Priority Investment Programs
(Total Cost in Million Taka)
FY88                        FY89                            FY90
Agreed         Actual         Agreed         Actual                        Actua
poser:
BPOB-generation           4,568           5,042         1.490           3,839          3,010           na
-transmission         1,329             506         2,096            732           1,073           na
-distribution         1,575           1,576         2,468          2,364           2,010           na
-other                  352             242           4M1 105                        353           na
-subtotal             7,824           7,366         6,495          7.040           6,446           na
REB                       1.146             975         1.646           1.105          2.400           na
Subtotal                  8,970           8,341         8,141           8,145          8,846           na
Petroleum:
Petrobangla               2,013           1,942         1,992             na           1,740           na
BPC                         210             235           251             no             152           na
Subtotal                  2,223           2,177         2,243           2,012          1,892         1,477
Total                      11.193          10518         10384           10157          10738            na
o



B. Energv Pricing and Demand Nanagement
Policy Area       Ref!  j/          Condition                                                     A ction Taken/Current Status I/
1.  Rationaliza-       1, 3      lmpLementation of the      Under Cr.1633-BD and Cr.1648-BD, GOB agreed to carry out a power tariff study (financed by UNDP) taking into
tiont.e-                    restructuring of BPDB's   ccnsideration the long-run marginal cost of supplying electricity and other financial considerations and to
structuring                 tariffs as agreed           begin to implement the agreed recommendations of the study by end-December 1986.  The study was completed in
of                          during ESAC                 August 1986. During negotiations for the ESAC, a program to reform power tariff structure_ based on the
electricity                 negotiations.               study's recommendations was agreed, including jn the case of BPDB tariffs: ti) reduction in the nmber of
tariffs to                                              tariff categories; (ii) phased introduction of two-part time-of-day tariffs for 33-kV and 11-kV consumers
reflect                                                 and optional two-part time-of-day tariffs for large low voltage consumers; (iii) phased reduction in the
economic                                                size of the subsidized first and second blocks for residential consumers; and (iv) phased replacement of
costs of                                                demand charges based on connected load with demand charges based on recorded maximum demand for 33-kV and
supplying                                               II-kV consumers and for selected large low voltage consumers (agricultural and small industrial); and in the
different                                               case of PBS tariffs: (i) introduction of two-part time-of-day tariffs for irrigation, general power services
consumer                                                and high voltage consumers; and (ii) replacement of the subsidized singLe-rate tariff for residential
groups and                                              consumers by a three-block increasing tariff with the same blocks as those set for BPDB's residential
annual                                                  consumers.
increases as
necessary to                                            BPDB#s bulk supply tariff (BST) to PgSs was increased 20X from May 1, 1987. and PBS tariffs were
meet entity                                             restructured in accordance with the agreed reform program from July 1, 1987.  The first stage reform for
financial                                               BPDOB tariffs was implemented from August 1, 1987 and Included reduction in the numier of tariff categories
targets.                                                from 18 to 10, Introduction of time-of-day tariffs for 33-kV, 11-kV and Large low voltage consumers, and
reduction in the size of the subsidized first block for residential consrmers from 100 kWh/month to 70
kWh/month and of the second block from 400 kWh/month to 200 kWh/month.  In January 1988, GOB amended the
August 1987 tariff so that the two-part time-of-day rate would not be applied to PBSs; it also became
evident that introduction of time-of-day metering for PBS consuimers was making little, if any, progress.        g
While IDA agreed the peak/off-peak BST rates were high relative to the flat BST rate, it continued to press
for an appropriate two-part time-of-day tariff for sales to PBSs to improve load management and for the PBSs
to pass on these costs to their large consumers through time-of-day tariffs or other effective load
management measures to encourage off-peak use of power. Further reforms to BPDB's tariffs, including
introduction of demand charges based on recorded maximum demand and further reduction in the size of
subsidized blocks for residential consumers, were to be ifplemented from Juty 1, 1988; due in part to detays
in installing new time-of-day meters with demand registers (under the system loss reduction program), the
target date for implementation was deferred to July 1, 1989. Covenant status at time of Board presentation
(April 1989): substantial compliance.
5         Borrower to have            In line with the agreed tariff reform program for BPDB, demand charges based on recorded maximum demand were
implemented agreed         introduced from July 1, 1989 for 33-kV (except PBSs) and 11-kv consumers accounting for about 40X of
reforms to electricity    comsurptlon; demand charges based an connected load continued to be levied for all other consumers (except
tariff structures in       PBSs).  As for the three-block tariff for residential consumers (which was to have been changed to 0-50
accordance with the        kWhimonth, 51-185 kWh/month and 186 + kWh/month from July 1, 1989), a revised tariff structure was
program of such reforms   Introduced from July 1, 1989 which in effect: (i) abolished the previous initial block; (ii) extended the
agreed with IDA.           range of the second block to 0-20ti kWhfmonth; (ill) capped the previous the third block for all consuption
above 200 kWh/month at 600 kWh/month; and (iv) introduced a new third block of 601 + kWh/month at a rate
substantially above the estimated LRHC of supply. Although the revised tariff included some desirable
features, including the introduction of a new third block which is consistent with GOB's equity and
efficiency objectives, it failed to aedress the issue of reducing below 200 kWh/month the nmiber of heavily
subsidized units. It was therefore agreed that before recommending to IDA's Board the release of the second
tranche, GOB would write to IDA confirming that the July 1990 tariff adjustments would include the reduction
of the first block in the residential tariff to 0-175 kWh/month; a telex to this effect was received in  
March 1990. Covenant status at time of second tranche release (June 1990): substantial compliance.             o 
0o



6         Borrower to carry out a    BPDB's three-btock residential tariff was adjusted as agreed from Juty 1, 1990 (i.e., the three blocks
program, agreed with         became 0-175 kWh/n,onth, 176-600 kWh/month and 600 * kWh/month); this brought the size of the heavily
IDA, of reforms to           subsidized portion down to 175 kWh/month in tine with the reform program recorded in the agreed minutes of
electricity tariff           negotiations as amended in March 1989.  it may be noted, however, that the PBSs' three btock residentiaL
structures.                  tariffs are stilt, 0-100 kWh/month, 101-200 kWh/month and 201 + kWh/month and that the first two blocks are
stitt heavily subsidized; the December 1989 second tranche review mission failed to note this shortcoming
because its attention was directed toward BPDB's residentiaL consumers which account for more than 90% of
residential consumption. As for further restructuring of BPDB and PBS tariffs in the future, improved load
management wi;t be increasingly important in view of rapidly growing demand against a constrained
investment program. These issues witt continue to be addressed both in ongoing projects (e.g., under
Cr.2129-BD, REB has initiated a program to introduce improved toad management measures for targe consumers,
including time-of-day tariffs) and in preparing further investment operations; it is also recommended that
the 1986 tariff study be updated once the criticat financiat issues facing SPDB have been resolved and the
updating of the Power System Master Plan has been completed. Present covenant status: substantiat
compliance.
a. in case          1, 3      Increase in BPDB's           Under Cr. 1648-BD, it was agreed that BPDB should earn a rate of return (ROR) on its revatued assets of 5%
of BPDB                   average tariff rate of        in FY86, 7.5% in FY87, 8.5% in FY88, 9% in FY89 and 10% in FY90 and thereafter.  During 1980-85 tariff rates
to                        at teast 15% no later        had been increased by 127%, representing average annual increases of about 18% in nominal terms and 5% in
achieve                    than September 1, 1987.    real terms.  White a tariff increase of about 10% should have been implemented by July 1, 1986 (12% by
an                                                      January 1, 1987) to enable BPDB to meet its targeted ROR for FY87, GOB explained during preparation of the
adequate                                                ESAC that under the new parliamentary system such tariff increases had to be included in the Budget before
rate of                                                 the start of the fiscal year concerned.  It was therefore agreed that a tariff increase of about 15% would
return on                                              be implemented from Juty 1, 1987.  Given potitical unrest in May/June 1987 during the Budget discussions, it
revalued                                               was agreed that the announcement/implementation of the increase could be deferred to September 1, 1987.  GOB
assets.                                                 implemented a 17% increase in BPDB's average tariff rate, together with the restructuring noted above, with
effect from August 1, 1987.  Covenant status at the time: in compliance.
3         Implementation of            During the July 1987 negotiations for the ESAC, GOB pressed strongly for a reduction in the ROR targets
adequate revenue             agreed under Cr. 1648-BD since they felt the targets would involve excessive tariff increases.  However,                I
increasing/cost             based on a set of assumptions agreed with BPOB, staff estimates at the time indicated that 8PDB's average
reducing actions,            tariff rate would have to be increased by about 10% with effect from July 1, 1988 to achieve the targeted 9%
including tariff            ROR in FY89.  It was therefore agreed to retain the previously agreed ROR targets.  Neverthetess, by June
increases, to ensure         1988, it was clear that SPOB would be unable to comply with the covenant for the foreseeable future; due
BPDB witl earn a rate        primarity to higher than projected operating expenses and system losses, BPDB's ROR had fallen far short of
of return of at least        the target in FY86-88, and it was estimated that a 50% tariff increase would be required to meet the 9% ROR
2% on Its revalued           target in FY89.  Two factors were considered in reducing these targets: (i) the target rates of return on
assets in FY89.              revalued assets for BPDB were generally higher than those agreed under Bank Group assisted power projects
(8% return on revalued assets was more common); and (ii) unusually large tariff increases at the time would
undermine BPDB's ongoing efforts to reduce its system losses and accounts receivabte. During the January
1989 negotiations for Cr. 2016-BD, it was agreed to amend the covenant set,i - a target ROR of 8% by FY93
with intermediate targets (2% in FY89, 4% in FY90, 6% in FY91 and 7% in Fi9%) oased on feasible tariff
increases. Projections at the time showed that the 3% increase in the Average tariff rate implemented from
July 1, 1988 (to offset the gas price increase), together with the dect.ning trend in system losses achieved
over the first six months of FY89, would be sufficien-, to achieve the 2% ROR in FY89. Covenant status at
time of Board presentation (April 1989/lat-'t data available December 1988): in compliance.
5         BPDB to have increased       GOB increased BPDB's average tariff rate I  baout 7.5% with effect from July 1, 1989.  Based on staff
its average tariff rate    estimates done at the time of the second tranche review mission and reconfirmed during negotiations for
with effect from July        IDA's proposed Power Rehabilitation Project, this adjustment, together with 3 further reduction in system
1, 1989 to enable it to    losses to about 30% for the year (which looked achievable based on BPDB's performance through mid-FY90), was
earn a rate of return        expected to give BPDB an ROR of about 4.1% in FY',.  Covenant status at timie of second tranche release (June Id
on the average current       1990/latest data available January 1990): in comp :ance.                                                              DI
net value of its fixed                                                                                                                             X
assets in operation of       GOB increased BPDB's average tariff rate by anothe  'X. with effect from July 1, 1990, bringing it to Tk              Ili>
at least 4% in FY90.         2.35/kwh; assuming 28% system losses (as targeted m4, he agreed long-term action plan to reduce losses), it              F'
was estimated that this would give BPDB an ROR of just over 5% in FY91 (as against a 6% target under                  0
Cr.2016-BD).  It now appears, however, that these ROR were not achieved.  When BPDB's FY89 audit report was



received in June 1990, significant differences were identified between BPDB's monthly commercial operations
statistics (which ha  aeen used by IDA and other donors to monitor BPDB's performance on a regular basis)
and its audited financial statements for FY89; for example, sales reported in the audited accounts were 86X
of those in the commercial statistics and accounts receivable 140X. Since deficiencies were knomn to exist
in the transfer of data from the field to operations and from there to finance, and since the commercial
statistics had been a consistent and apparently reliable basis for monitoring SPDB's performance in the
past, IDA requested BPDB to reconcile the discrepancies between the two sets of accounts. When BPDB uas
unable to do so, after discussions with IDA in November 1990, it became clear that the data submitted were
not accurate; in March 1991 BPDB revised its statistics on commercial operations for FY90. Using the
revised figures for systems losses (39% for FY90/41% for FY91) and assuming the other variables remain as
previously estimated, BPDB's ROR would fall below 2X in FY90 and FY91. The primary issue appears to be a
widespread breakdown in accountability and discipline among BPDB's staff, resulting in BPDB's dismal
financial performance as welt as a lack of reliabte data by which to measure its performance. As a result,
as discussed in more detait in the text of the PCR (para. 41, Part I) and later in this Annex (policy area
C.2., fourth para.), further lending by IDA and other donors is pending GOB's taking concrete actions to
address these issues. With power tariffs in Bangladesh already among the highest in the Region, resolution
of the corruption problem is the first priority in improving SPOD's financial performance.
b. in case         1, 2      Increase in PBS's            Under Cr.1633-BD, financial performance targets had been agreed for the PBSs caLting for each PBS to take
of PBSs                   average tariff rate of       atl necessary measures (including adjustment of the structure/level of its retaiL tariffs) to ensure: (i)
to enable                 at least 15K from July       the average price per kWh sold by the PBS is not less than that soLd by BPDB; (ii) as of the PBS's sixth
them to                   1, 1987.                    year of operation, gross revenues cover operating expenses and interest; and (iii) as of the PBS's seventh
cover                                                  year of operation, internaL funds cover at least 20X of investment.  Pending completion of the power tariff
opera-                                                 study, it was further agreed under Cr.1633-8D that BPDB's BST rate for supplies to PBSs would be calculated
ting                                                  based on a methodology satisfactory to IDA and the rate adjusted accordingly from Juty 1, 1986.  Although
expenses                                               this adjustment was not implemented in 1986, during preparation of the ESAC, it was agreed that a 20X
and                                                    increase would be effected from July 1, 1987 and that PBS retail tariffs would be increased 15K on average
interest                                              at the same time.  In fact, BPDB's BST rate was increased 20K from May 1, 1987 and PBS retail tariffs 25K             4.-
and an                                                 (together with the restructuring noted above) from July 1, 1987.  Covenant status at time of negotiations             a
adequate                                               (July 1987): in compliance.
propor-
tion of
invest-
ment.
ODa
0
t'3
o0



5         Each PBS to have            In line with the adjustments made in BPDB's average tariff rate and its BST rate for supplies to PBSs, PBS
increased its average      retail tariffs were increased on average some 3X effective July 1, 1988 and another 11X effective July 1,
tariff rate with effect    1989, bringing the average PBS rate to Tk 2.60/kWh as compared to BPDB's average of Tk 2.16/kWh in FY90.
from July 1, 1989 to       During negotiations for the ESAC, it was noted that USAID planred to finance corsultants to undertake a
ensure (i) the average    pricing impact study for rural consumers of electricity in Bangladesh, and that, among other things, it was
price per kWh sold by      expected the study would recommend revised financial targets for the P8Ss.  The study was completed in 1988.
such PBS shall not be       Its main conclusion was that although the rural electrification program as a whole should be financiatly
less than the average      viable, individual PBSs' financial performance could be expected to vary widely depending on consumer mix
price per kWh sold by      and density; hence, individual Performance Agreements woutd be a more reasonable basis for monitoring
BPDB; (ii) as of the       performance than woutd a uniform set of financial targets.  During the March 1990 negotiations for Cr.2129-
sixth year of operation   BOD, therefore, it was agreed that REB would establish a system of annual Performance Agreements to set and
of a PBS, gross            monitor specific annual operating and financial performance targets for individual operating PBSs. By the
revenues from all          time of the ESAC second tranche release, proposed performance targets for operating PBSs had been revieved
sources related to such   and found satisfactory by IDA. REB subsequently executed these Performance Agreements with the operating
PBS's operations within   PBSs, thus completing full implementation of the system.  Although it was noted at the time of negotiations
such fiscal year shall     for the ESAC that the financial targets for the PBSs may need to be revised following completion of the
be sufficient to meet      USAID study, the legal documents for the ESAC were never thus amended.  Legally, therefore, covenant status
its electricity            at time of second tranche release (June 1990) was partial compliance; with the appropriate amendment,
purchases, adminis-        however, the covenant status would have been in compliance.
trative expenses,
depreciation and           Effective July 1, 1991, PBS retail tariffs were increased another 13X, bringing the average PBS rate to Tk
interest expenses; and    2.94/kWh as compared to BPDB's average of Tk 2.35/kWh.  REB has prepared its first report on the performance
(iii) as of the seventh   of the individual PBSs against their respective performance targets (Performance Agreements); this will be
year of operation of a    discussed during the next supervision mission (Fall 1991).
PBS, funds produced
from internal sources
in each fiscal year
shall be equivalent to                                                                                                                       4.
not less than 20X of
the anrual average of
such PBS's capital
expenditures incurred,
or expected to be
incurred, during such
fiscal year and the
preceding and next
following fiscat years.
2.  Annual             1, 2      Increase in the price      Under Cr. 1586-BD, GOB accepted the principle of pricing natural gas based on the long-run marginal cost of
increases in                of gas to power, ferti-    extraction, transmission and distribution plEs a depletion premium.  Despite successive 20X increases in the
natural gas                 lizer and residential       average gas price in FY86 and FY87, however, the prices paid by power, fertilizer, residential and smalt
prices as                   consumers of about 30X      industrial consumers remained below the economic cost of supply and the average gas price was onty about 801
necessary,                  from July 1, 1987.          of the economic cost of supply.  Under the ESAC, GOB extended its agreement to increase gas prices: Ii) to
as a first                                              achieve, as a first step, equality with the economic cost of supply (including a depletion premium) for each
step, to                                                consumer group; and {ii) thereafter, to reduce the gap between the price of gas and that of substitute fuels
achieve                                                 to mobilize resaxrces for the Budget.  During preparation of the ESAC, a program of tariff adjustments
equality                                                designed to achieve, as a minimm, the first of these objectives by the time of the second tranche retease
with                                                    was prepared.  In line with this, GOB increased the average gas price by 25X effective Juty 1, 1987, with
economic                                                above average increases of 301 to power, fertilizer and commercial consumers and by 25X to residential
costs of                                                consumers.  Covenant status at time of negotiations (July 1987): substantial compliance.
supply for
each
consumer                                                                                                                                                                   .
group end,
thereafter,
to reduce                                                                                                                                                                  -'
gap between
price of gas
0



and that of
substitute
fuels in
order to
mobilize
resources
for the
Budget.
5         An increase in the         A further 15X increase for all consumer groups except residential consumers was implemented effective July
price of gas to power,    1, 1988.  Following this, the average gas price was slightly above the estimated economic cost of supply but
fertilizer, small          certain consumer groups (namely, power, fertilizer, small industrial arnd residential consumers) stitl
industrial and residen-    remained below their economic cost of suppty.  The revised tariff introduced from July 1, 1989 increased
tiaL consumers of at       prices to power, smatl  industrial, residential and commercial consumers by about 16X, 17X, 16Z and 13X,
least 15X to have taken   respectively, giving an overall weighted average increase of about 10X.  While this brought gas prices on
ptace with effect from    average and for all consumer groups, other than fertilizer manufacturers, to at least the economic cost of
July 1, 1989.              supply, gas prices to fertilizer manufacturers still remained about 10% below the economic cost.  A waiver
on this condition was requested (ard was granted) from IDA's Board at the time the second tranche release
was recommended based on the progress which had been made in gas price adjustments under the ESAC and GOB's
commitment, as confirmed in a March 1990 tetex to IDP, to increase gas prices 151 on average effective July
1, 1990 (i.e., as part of its FY91 Budget package), including a 151 increase for fertilizer manufacturers.
Covenant status at time of second tranche release (June 1990): partial compliance.
Gas prices were increased 151 for all consuter categories from July 1, 1990. Based on presently available
estimates of the economic cost of supply, including a depletion premium, this brought gas prices for all
consuaer groups up to/above the economic cost. As for the future, sas prices should continue to be
increased annually because of inflation and the depletion premium to gradually close the gap between the
price of natural gas and that of substitute fuels and to mobilize resources for the Budget. Moreover, given -
the rapid development of the gas subsector in recent years (e.g.. change in estimated reserves, presence of    ;
natural gas liquids and need for an integrated transmission network at least in the east zone) and changesr
in gas consumption patterns by certain consumer groups (e.g., power has a high peak demand for gas), there
is a need to update the economic cost of supply, including the depletion premium, and the level/structure of
prices with a view to ensuring sound energy pricing policies are sustained.  This will be done during the
preparation of IDA's proposed Gas Infrastructure Development Project (FY93).
3.  Increase           1             NA                     Under Cr. 1586-BD, GOo had agreed to the principte of the gas companies self-financinrg a reasonable
margin on                                               proportion of their future investment requirements.  Nevertheless, preliminary estimates for FY87 indicated
gas price                                               the gas companies (on a consolidated basis) would make a financiat loss and woutd have a smalL negative rate
received by                                             of return on totat capital employed. Moreover, in the few cases in the past where companies were able to
gas                                                     generate profits, they had been captured by GOB in. the form of dividends.  Under the ESAC, therefore,
companies to                                            monitorable self-financing targets were agreed for the new gas companies (scheduted to begin operations in
cover costs                                             Juty 1989) with a view to ensuring that GOB would increase sufficiently the margins on gas prices received
and an                                                  by the companies to enable them to meet these targets and would require the gas companies to declare
adequate                                                dividends only after the targets had been met.
proportion
of
investment.
H
0



6         Borrower to ensure (i)      In FY88 and FY89, GOB increased the gas companies' share of the additionaL revenues generated by the amnual
the margin on gas           gas price increases from an average of about 10% in the past to 201.  With the margins for the gas companies
prices (net of excise       stilt inadequate, the gas companies continued to depend heavily on GOB atlocations to finance their
duties) received by the    investments and had difficulty in financing their incremental working capital requirements.  By mid-1989,
gas companies will be       the gas subsector had undergone a significant reorganization (policy area C.3.).  Effective July 1, 1989,
set at a level suffi-       GOB increased gas prices by about 10X on average, reserving 60Z of the gas price increase for the Budget,
cient to enable each        thus leaving 401 for the gas companies in FY90.  During the December 1989 2SAC second tranche review
gas company to finance      mission, preliminary financial projections prepared for the largest production (BGFCL) and
its operating and           transmission/distribution (TGTDC) companies indicate  that neither company would be able to achieve the 10%
administration costs        self-financing target for FY90.  Further anatysis looking ahead to FY91 indicated that the 20X self-
(including taxes,           financing target may be achievable provided alt additional revenues resulting from the proposed 15X average
interest expenses and       gas price increase (poticy area B.2., secord para.) were retained by the gas colp.nies; this analysis aLso
amortization of             assumed that capitat restructuring may be necessary for some of the gas companies, such as BGFCL, once the
principat on debt) and      transfer of assets and liabitities in connection with the reorganization was compteted.  GOB confirmed in
at least 10% of its         March 1990 that the fult 15% gas price increase, to be implemented with effect from July 1, 1990, woutd be
investment program from    retained by the gas companies.  Covenant status at time of second tranche release was considered to be not
internatly generated        in compliance.  However, the FY90 audited accounts have subsequently shown that, at the time of the second
funds in FY90, 20% in       tranche release, SGFL, TGTDC and JGTDC were in compliance, white BGFCL and BGSL did not compty.  No
FY91, 30% in FY92 and       dividends were declared by any of the gas companies in FY90. Covenant status at time of second tranche
40% in FY93 and             release (June 1990):  partial compliance.
thereafter; and (ii)
the gas companies wilt    As for FY91, GOB imptemented the 15% gas price increase from Juty 1, 1990, passing on the futt amount of the
not dectare a dividend      increase to the gas companies (30% to production, 55% to transmission/distribution and 15% to
until their respective      exploration/dritting).  Forecasts for FY91 indicate that even with the increased margins, SGFL and BGSL are
targets have been           unlikely to be in compliance with the 20% self-financing covenant.  Analysis of the earnings and financial
achieved.                   performance of the gas companies continues to indicate three principle weaknesses: lack of adequate margins
avaitable to the gas companiies, excessive debt f nancing and poor cotlection performance.  These issues are
being addressed in connection with the recently approved extension of the ctosing date of Cr. 1586-BD and           4S
preparation of the proposed Gas Infrastructure Development Project.  Present covenant status:  partial              Ln
compliance.
It has also been noted that the formulation of the gas companies' Revenue Covenant under .he ESAC does not
follow that of the Bank's Standard Cash Generation Covenant in that it does not take into account the
companies' need for working capitat. The table betow demonstrates the differences in gerformance of the gas
companies in FY90-91 as measured by the two covenants. Under the Gas Infrastructure Development Project, it
wilt be proposed to inctude working capitat in the calculation (which will also be consistent with the
original covenant under Cr. 1556-SD).
ESAC Covenant                    Bank's Standard Covenant
FY90       FY91                      FY90         FY91
(10%)      (20%)      iTarget)       (10%)        (20%)
2.0       36.7 c     BGFCL          27.4 c       -79.5
47.6 r     10.6        SGFL        -194.2          40.0 c
-101.1      -88.0        BGSL           2.5         -16.9
23.1 c     27.8 c      TGTDC        -31.9          19.6 c
165.1 c    12B.3 c      JGTDC        -38.8          86.3 c
c  In compliance with covenant.
xD
tD X4
0
CD



4.  Naintain            1             NA                       Eastern Refinery Limited is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bangladesh Petroleut Corporation, which is
weighted                                                  responsible for procurement of crude oil and petroleum products and distribution of petroleum products as
average                                                   welt as setting of petroleun product retail prices in accord with GOB's policies.  Under Cr. 1749-BD, GOB
retail price                                              established a toll-processing fee whereby BPC compensates ERL based on product yield, refining complexity
of petroleum                                              and a reasonable return on investment, together with yield norms and a system of bonuses and penalties.
products                                                  BPC's petroleum product prices to the three marketing companies (also BPC subsidiaries) are to be
at/above                                                  determined, in turn, on a cost-plus basis, and the level/structure of retail prices on the basis of BPC's
level pre-                                                prices to the marketing companies plus a mark-up to cover distribution, marketing and other handling costs
vailing in                                                and an ad valorem excise duty.  In the early 1980s, some of BPC's prices were below border prices, resulting
FY87 and                                                  in financial losses.  In the mid-1980s, despite a sharp drop in world oil prices, GOB maintained retail
ensure that                                               prices at relatively high levets in order to strengthen BPC's financial position and mobilize substantial
BPC's                                                     resources for the Budget.  Hence, in FY87 the weighted average domestic price of petroleum products was
weighted                                                  about 150% of the weighted average border price.  With a view to protecting BPC's financial viability while
average                                                   also mobitizing resources for the Budget, the following petroleumn product pricing principle was agreed
transfer                                                  during negotiations for the ESAC: ii) BPC's weighted average transfer price (including excise duty) would
price                                                     exceed the weighted average border price by at least 15%; and (ii) the weighted average retail price would
(including                                                not be reduced below that existing in FY87.
excise duty)
exceeds
c.i.f.
import
price.
6         Borrower to Ci) ensure       In line with the above, petroleum product prices were maintained at FY87 levels until January 1, 1990 when
the weighted average        gasoline prices were reduced by about 40% (price reduction was announced in December 1989).  While GOB's
retail price of             purpose in thus reducing gasoline prices--to promote tocal refinery upgrading of significant naphtha                  I
petroleum products are      surpluses (otherwise exported at volatile prices) and domestic use of locally produced gasoline to                   4o
not reduced below FY87      substitute for imported diesel in transport--was valid, it failed to address related issues/remedies (e.g.,   0'
levels; and (ii) iaple-    increase in diesel price, taxing of diesel engines, etc.) required to ensure a more efficient demand/supply   I
ment a pricing              balance for petroleun products white also being fiscally neutrit.  The short-term Budget imrpact of the price
mechanism which ensures    reduction was especia'ly important because of the projected shortfall in GOB's budgetary revenues for FY90.
BPC's weighted average       In an effort to bring GOB into compliance with the covenant ard at the same time ensure revenue neutrality,
transfer price for          the December 1989 ESAC second tranche review mission recommended an offsetting price increase in petroleut
petroleum products,         products (e.g., 50 paisa/liter increase in diesel price).  GOB subsequently increased the price of alt
includlhg excise duty,      petroleun products by about 40 paisa/liter, effective April 15, 1990, raising the weighted average tra,nsfer
exceeds the weighted        price to about 36% above border prices and the weighted average retail price to about 4% above the FY87
average c.i.f. import        level.  Covenant status at time of second tranche release (June 1990): in compliance.
price by at least 15X.
GOB responded promptly to the Gulf crisis with two successive increases in petroleum. product prices on
September 1 and October 4, 1990, for an overall increase of about 85% on average since the April 1990
increase. Direct conservation measures were also introduced (e.g., BPDB curtailed its oil consumption
through load shedding during the system peak). While world oil prices have generally returned to pre-Gulf
crisis levels, GOB has maintained its petroleum prouuct prices at the October 1990 levels because of its
need to mobilize resources for the Budget. However, the economy-wide implications of this decision have yet
to be fully assessed. Present covenant status: in compliance.
011
lb
I-
0
tsJ
0



C.  !nstitutional Performance and Development
Policy Area        Ref. y           Condition 1/                                                    Action faken/Current Status J
1.  Reorganiza-        1, 3      Agreement on a reform       Under ODA financing GOB invited consultants starting in July 1987 to conduct a diagnostic organizational,
tion/streng-                 program for 8POB and a      financial and management study of BPDB to determine priorities for its restructuring.  The study's key
thening of                   dated timetable for its    recommendation was that BPDB's distribution function should be decentralized to strengthen the interface
BPOB to                      implementation.             between BPDB and its consumers to better control system losses and accounts receivable and laprove
inprove its                                              collections; other recommendations pertained to organizational changes and restructuring -ithin BPDB and to
operational                                              generatly strengthening its overall operation particularly in the areas of planning, finance and
performance                                              administration.  These recomnendations were agreed in principle by GOB, BPDB, IDA, ADB and ODA in early
and                                                      1988.  In November 1988 Cabinet approved the recommended reorganization, including the establishment of
development.                                             Dhaka Electric Supply Authority as a rew/separate distribution entity effective July 1, 1990.  In January
1989 during negotiations for Cr. 2016-8D, a dated action program to implement the reorganization was agreed,
including the appointment of WOA-financed consuttants to assist BPD8 in the implementation phase.  Covenant
status at time of Board presentation (Aprit 1989): in comptiance.
6         Borrower to carry out       As a first step toward decentratizing the distribution function, in June 1989 BPDB detegated administrative,
the dated action            fi.anciat and commercial powers to its five zonat engineers to inprove accountabitity and performance of
program agreed with IDA   each distribution zone.  During the December 1989 ESAC second tranche review mission, however, it was
for the reform of BPDB.   determined that imptementation of the remaining aspects of the agreed program had fatlen seriously behind
schedule due in part to late appointment of the consultants; it was therefore agreed that certain key
actions would need to be completed before release of the tranche could be recomaended. GOB made
satisfactory progress in this respect during March-April 1990: DESA was established and its key staff
appointed, BPDB's ordinance was amended, a preliminary report on the metering requirements/bulk supply
tariff structure for electricity supplies to DESA was prepared, and the inplementation consultants assembled   I
in Dhaka.  Moreover, a revised dated action program teading to coomerciat operation of DESA by January 31,    4r
1991 was agreed in April 1990 during negotiations for IDA's proposed Power Rehabititation Project.  Covenant   4
status at time of second tranche retease (June 1990): in compliance.                                                I
While the consultants together with BPDB/DESA staff prepared the various working papers more or tess in tine
with the agreed program in the early months of FY91, necessary action by the BPDB and DESA Boards, the
Steering Comittee and GOB was often stow in coming, and implemer'tation began to fatl behind schedule.  This
was exacerbated by the repeated threats of the SPDB unions to strike if DESA was formed, culminating in the
closing of the DESA office by the unions in earty Decemtber 1990 during the overthrow of the previous
Goverrment. Fotlowing a review visit in late March 1991 (the bulk of the consultant's work was to be
cotpleted by 4nd-Aprit), ODA requested written confirmation from the rew Government that it was committed to
the principles of the reorganization, inctuding start-up of DESA's comnerciat operation on a specified date,
and that BPOB would cooperate fully with the implementation. GOB confirmed its coffmitment in late April and
took various actions tp strengthen BPOB's management and execution of the reorganization.  Nevertheless, in
the face of continuing pressure from the BPDB unions, GOB/BPDB repeatedly failed to take the necessary
actions to enable DESA to commence commercial operation. As a result, in accordance with earlier
correspondence with GOB, WDA withdrew the implementation consultants at the erd of July (when their work was
originally scheduled to be completed), and IDA suspended disbursements under Cr. 2016-BD effective Septebter
4.  DESA finally began commercial operation on October 1, 1991, although a nmzber of key actions, including
GOB's sanctioning of the DESA organizational structure, remain to be completed. IDA's tifting of the
suspension is contingent, inter alia, on GOB's compteting these key steps as detaited in an action ptan
leading to DESA's commercial operation prepared and agreed with GOB in August 1991.  ODA has atso indicated
that once DESA begins commerciat operation and upon receipt of a request from GOB, oDA will consider
reinstating the implementation consultants on an extended appointment to assist in completing the key
aspects of the reorganization.  Continuing implementation of the reorganization will be monitored in             0 
conjunction with the further processing of IDA's proposed Power Rehabilitation Project (FY92).  Present    oi
covenant status: partial compliance.
0



2.  Reduction of       1              NA                      Over the past decade, BPDOB has made numerous efforts, assisted by multilateral and bilateral donors, to
power system                                              reduce system losses.  Under the provisions of Cr. 1648-BO, BPDB appointed in November 1986 UNDP-financed
tosses to                                                 consultants (i) to address the problem of non-technicat losses by improving its consumer accounting
reduce waste                                              including appropriate metering/billing; and (ii) to prepare investment pLans and guidelines for
of                                                        expanding/reinforcing the overloaded distribution system to reduce technical losses.  During negotiations
resources.                                                for the ESAC, GOB and BPDB agreed to implement an emergency program to reduce non-technicat losses.  in
February 1988 this progrem was extended in consultation with IDA, ADB and ODA; the revised program included
establishment of a separate loss monitoring unit headed by a general manager, more adequate staffing of
BPDB's conmercial operations, incentives Xo BPDB's staff to control losses, appointment of magistrates and
police assistance to apprehend people stealing electricity, replacing consumer-installed high and Low
voltage meters with new BRDB meters, calibration of meters for other categories of consumers and adequate
sealing of all meters.
3         Reduction of BPDB's          After a slow start, BPDB implemented the loss reduction program consistently and, from a peak of 46X in
grcss system losses to      October 1987, reduced system losses to an average of 35X during June-December 1988 (34X in December 1988)
an average not              according to BPOB's monthly statistics on commercial operations.  Covenant status at time of Board
exceeding 35% for a         presentation (April 1989/latest data available December 1988): in compliance.
period of at least
three months.
5         Gross system losses of       According to BPDB's monthly statistics on commercial operations, system losses continued to decline steadily
BPDB to have been           during 1989 reaching 27X in January 1990 (28% on average during November 1989-January 1990).  In addition in
reduced to an average       early 1990, in accordance with a covenant under Cr. 2016-BD and as reconfirmed during negotiations for IDA's
of 32X during the           proposed Power Rehabilitation Project, a long-term action plan to reduce both non-technical and technical
preceding three months.    losses in BPDB's distribution system was agreed based on the recommendations of the  lNDP-financed
consultants. Covenant status at time of second tranche release (June 1990/latest data available January
1990): in compliance.                                                                                                I
In the period February-May 1990, BPDB's system losses increased steadily reaching 43X according to BPDB's    co
monthly statistics on commercial operations; the agreed long-term action plan had a target of no more than    I
30D for FY90. Possible causes of the increased losses identified at the time included the beginning of
activities to implement the BPDB reorganization, including the establishment of DESA which met with
considerable resistance from the BPOB unions, as well as the evolving political situation in the country.
In fact, it now appears that the earlier improving trend in system losses reported in BPDB's monthly
statistics on commercial operations was not correct, as BPDB was unable to reconcile satisfactorily the
significant differences discovered between the audited accounts and commercial statistics for FY89 (policy
area B.1.a., fourth para.). In March 1991 BPDO revised its statistics on commercial operations for FY90,
showing 391 system losses for the year (401 for November 1989-January 1990, the period considered for the
second tranche release). The situation deteriorated further in FY91 to 41X system losses for the year.
As discussed in more detail in the text of the PCR (para. 41, Part 1), prerequisites for IDA's proceeding
with the proposed Power Rehabilitation Project and other new lending for BPDB projects include: (i) clear
demonstration of the govermnent's political commitment to support BPDB (and DESA) management in addressing
the widespread breakdown in accountability and discipline among their staff; (ii) GOB approval/initiation of
implementation of comprehensive technical assistance packages proposed by IDA/AD8 to strengthen BPDB's (and
DESA's) financial management over the next 3-4 years; and (iii) GOB's/BPDB's (DESA's) concerted effort to
carry out the agreed action plans designed to reduce system losses and improve revenue collection over the
medium/long term as well as additional emergency measures to reduce system losses and accounts receivable in
the near term. Further support for the sector from other donors is also unlikely to be forthcoming until
GOB takes concrete actions to address BPDB's (and DESA's) performance problems.
10 I
0
0



3.  Reorganiza-        1              NA                      During the appraisal of Cr.1586-BD, a diagnostic study to identify measures for streamlining BOGMC's
tion of                                                   organizational structure and improving its operational efficiency was carried out by IDA with the assistance
BOGMC on                                                  of an international management consultant.  Recognizing the need for reform, GOB agreed during Credit
functionat                                                negotiations to submit a reorganization plan for BOGMC to IDA by December 1, 1985 for implementation by July
lines to                                                  1, 1986.  In the interim, GOB requested ODA to grant finance a follow-up study to prepare a more detailed
strengthen                                                implementation plan covering the restructuring of the companies as well as the establishment of accounting,
gas                                                       management information and other monitoring systems, including training.  Due to the delayed appointment and
subsector                                                 mobilization of the consultants, the study started in November 1986, the interim report was completed in
entities.                                                 January and the final report in June 1987.  The reform program, agreed in principle during the ESAC
appraisal, was to be carried out in two sequential phases, namely the "Companies Plan" and the more complex
"Systems Plan", with additional support from ODA. The primary objective of the reorganization was that
BOGMC would be divested of all operational activities and these would be reorganized, together with those of
the existing operating companies, under a new set of operationally independent OCs organized along
functional (rather than geographic) lines. BOGMC wouLd then operate as a holding company, holding equity in
the OCs on behalf of GOB and being responsible for investment planning and monitoring as well as sector
policy formulation.
3         Agreement on the             The overall structure and dated implementation plan for the BOGMC reorganization were agreed during the ESAC
reorganization of BOGMC    negotiations; a technical assistance contract with suitable consultants to assist in the implementation,
and implementation of       particularly with the accounting issues, was to be entered into by end-1987 (Phase II of ODA assistance) and
the first steps.            the legal aspects and Board/managerial appointments completed by mid-1988.  Subsequent to the ESAC
negotiations, GOB determined tlF-t the reorganization proposal had to be submitted to Cabinet for approval;
in the course of this, GOB requested and IDA agreed to some changes in .he set of new OCs to be established
(e.g., responsibility for solid minerals exploration/devetopment would remain with BOGMC, pending initiation .>
of a significant minerals project; and the transmission function would remain combined with the distribution
function and be regionalized as oart of three gas transmission/distribution OCs, pending commissioning of
the north-south pipeline and integration of the national gas grid). As a result, the schedule for
implementing the basic elements of the reorganization (i.e., the Companies Plan) was delayed about a year.
In accordance with the revised schedule, at the time of the ESAC Board presentation, the BOGMC ordinance had
been appropriately amended and all of the OCs (with the exception of exploration and drilling (SAPEXI) had
been legally established and their managers appointed. As for the TA, a fundamental difference arose
between GOB and ODA regarding the terms of reference and extent of assistance required by BOGMC in
implementing the reorganization; in an effort to break the impass, it was agreed to change the ESAC
condition to a review by December 31, 1989 of the OCs' accounting systems with a view to determining their
need for further assistance in streamlining the systems (i.e., carrying out the Systems Plan) once the OCs
were operational. A point which was incorrectly noted in the President's Report is that at the time of
Board presentation there was only one gas production company; in fact, there were (and still are) two
production companies. Formation of a single production company is being addressed in the context of IDA's
ongoing Gas Subsector Review. It may also be noted that with the development of the overall gas systeau. n
the east zone now well underway, Petrobangla* is actively proceeding with the establishment of a Nationat
Gas Transmission Company. (*BOGMC was renamed Petrobangla in 1989 at the time of the reorganization.)
Covenant status at time of Board presentation (April 1989): substantial compliance.
5         Key reforms of the gas      With the legal establishment of BAPEX, appointment of its key managers and appointment of the Boards of
subsector to have been      Petrobangla and all OCs, GOB had essentially completed the actions agreed under the dated implementation
carried out in              plan for the BOGMC reorganization by end-July 1989.  In the President's Memorandum to the Board prepared at
accordance with the         the time of second tranche release, it was noted that the division of assets and liabilities was expected to
dated action plan           be completed during FY90, to be followed by computerization of the Petrobangla complex and implementation of
agreed with IDA.            new accounting policies and procedures during FY91.  Hence, covenant status at the time of second tranche
release was considered to be in compliance. In fact, it was only partial compliance in that GOB
representatives were still present on the Boards of the OCs (the agreement with IDA was that the OCs' Boards
would include Petrobangla and company representatives but no GOB representatives; GOB's control would be            OQ Z
exercised through Petrobangla's Board which would include GOB representatives).  Moreover, GOB still held    (D r
equity in the OCs (contrary to the agreement that Petrobangla would hold equity in the OCs on behalf of             g-X
GOB).  Thus, GOB had not allowed Petrobangla to operate as a proper holding company, nor had it allowed the  Ln
OCs to operate on a conmiercial basis independent of direct government involvement.  As a prerequisite to           o
IDA's extenc'ing the closing date of Cr. 1586-80, GOB released its equity in the OCs in June 1991.
0



Petrobangla is now in the process of registering the shares with the Registrar of Companies and substituting
GOO representation on the OCs' Boards. Covenant status at time of second tranche release (June 1990):
partial compliance.
6         Borrower to carry out        In the period since the second tranche release, although the inter-company transfers of assets/liabitities
the dated action plan       associated with the OCs' restructuring have by now been completed, the necessary changes in the accounting,
agreed with IDA for the    MIS and other monitoring systems and associated training have yet to be introduced--i.e., implementation of
reorganization of the       the Systems Plan has fatten considerably behind schedule.  While this may be attributed in large part to
gas subsector.              GOB's unwilLingness to accept the extent of technicat assistance proposed by ODA based on the June 1987
report's recommendations, it is aLso due to IDA staff's failure to give sufficient attention to this aspect
of the reform program both in negotiations and during supervision of the ESAC. At one point, it was planned
that imptementation of this component would be monitored urder IDA's proposed Petroleum Technical
Devetopnent Project; however, the proposed Project was dropped from IDA's lending program in mid-1989 at
GOO's request. Since then, the TA for the Systems Plan had not been actively pursued. Now, as part of the
preparation of IDA's proposed Gas Infrastructure Devetopment Project (FY93), the 1987 Systems Plan is being
updated and grant financing sought; ensuring satisfactory implementation of the revamped Plan will be an
important objective of the Project. Present covenant status: partial compliance.
4.  Reduction of
accounts
receivable
by energy
sector
entities to
improve
financial
viabitity.
a. BPDB            1              NA                      Under Cr. 1648-BD, it had been agreed that BPDB's accounts receivable shoutd not exceed 3 months' bitlings            un
by June 30, 1988.  In January 1987 SPOB's accounts receivable were equivalent to 6.2 months' billings and             0
remained above 5 months, bitlings during FY88.  Under the ESAC, intermediate targets of 4.5 months' bittings    I
before Board presentation and 4.0 months' bittings before Credit effectiveness were agreed along with an
action program to help BPDB in meeting these targets. During negotiations for Cr. 2016-BD, the final target
was retaxed to 3.5 months' bittings by June 30, 1989.
3         Reduction of BPDB's          According to BPDB's monthly statistics on commercial operations, BPDB's accounts receivable were brought
accounts receivable to      down from some 5 months' billings during most of 1988 to 4.2 months' bittings in December 1988.  Covenant
the equivalent of 4.5       status at time of Board presentation (April 1989/tatest data avaitabte December 1988): in compliance.
months' bittings.
4         BPDB's accounts              According to BPDB's monthly statistics on commercial operations, BPDB's accounts receivabte were brought
receivable to have been   down to 3.9 months' billings in February 1989 and remained at 4.0-4.1 months' biltings until June 1989 when
reduced to the equiva-      they were reduced to 3.4 months' biltings.  Covenant status at time of Credit effectiveness (June
tent of no more than 4      1989/tatest avaitable data February 1989): in comptiance.
months' biltings.
5         BPDB's accounts             With its accounts receivable on the rise again by the time of the December 1989 ESAC secord tranche review,
receivabte to have been    GOB/BPDB agreed to implement an action plan directed toward clearing the outstanding dues of various
reduced to the              govermnent departments, municipalities and autonomous corporations.  As a result, a retroactive adjustment
equivalent of no more       was made to the September 1989 accounts in its monthly statistics on commercial operations, reducing its
than 3.5 months'            accounts receivable from 4.0 months' bitlings in August 1989 to 3.5 months' billings in September 1989.
billings.                   According to its commercial operations statistics, accounts receivable were then maintained at more-or-less
this level through January 1990.  In addition in an effort to minimize BPDB's future accumulation of                -'D
arrears, a dated action plan to improve revenue colLection from both pubLic and private consumers was agreed lb
in Aprii 1990 during negotiations for IDA's proposed Power Rehabititation Project.  Covenant status at time  ro r5
of second tranche release (June 1990/latest data available January 1990): in comptiance.
In subsequent issues of its monthly statistics on commercial operations, BPDB revised the accounts                  o
receivable figure for December 1989 and January 1990 to, respectively, 3.9 and 4.0 months' billings,
_?



explaining that the difference of 0.5 months' bitlings was an estimate of the benefit they had expected to
receive from a penalty waiver program launched in May-June 1990. In fact, the total benefit was about one
months' bitlings but under standard accounting procedures should not be recorded until it had been realized
(i.e., in June 1990). In the period February-May 1990, BPDB's accounts receivable increased steadily,
reaching 5.3 months' billings according to BPDB's monthly statistics on cowmerciat operations. As in the
case of power system tosses, it now appears that the earlier accounts receivabte figures were not correct;
and in March 1991, SPDO revised its statistics on commercial operations for FY90, showing accounts
receivable to be in the range of 3.8-4.7 months' biltings in FY90 (with a figure of 4.4 months' bittings in
January 1990, the month considered for the second tranche retease). The situation deteriorated further in
FY91 with BPDB's accounts receivabte rising from 4.4 months' billings in July 1990 to 6.3 months' billings
in June 1991. These issues are being addressed as noted above (policy area C.2., fourth para.).
5         Arrangements,                Although BPDB has taken a number of actions to improve its consumer bilting including instatlation of
satisfactory to IDA, to   meters, hiring of quatified accountants and updating of consumer tedgers under its system toss reduction
have been implemented       program, bitling of registered consumers by the time of the second tranche release review mission showed
for biLling BPDB's          only marginal improvements with about 93% of registered consumers being billed.  During preparation of the
consumers, aging its        ESAC, it was learned that BPDB had on its books some receivables that dated back to the early 1970s and
accounts receivable,        numerous accounts that were no longer active; in early 1987 therefore SPDB initiated an aging analysis of
formulating a policy        its accounts receivable.  By the December 1989 second tranche review mission, the aging analysis had been
for writing off and,        completed for all high tension consumers and low tension industrial consumers which account for about 65% of
thereafter, writing off    energy sales; under Cr. 2016-BD, it had been agreed that the aging analysis for the domestic and commercial
BPDB's bad debt.            consumers (about 1 million) accounting for the remaining 35% of sales would be completed by June 30, 1990.
This aging of accounts/updating of ledgers has resulted in SPDO's effectively writing off in FY89 about 3.3
months of receivables which corresponded to bad debts.  While GOB has endorsed this action, the adjustments
have yet to be confirmed by independent auditors.  Covenant status at time of second tranche release (June
1990):  substantial comptiance.
During the second hatf of FY90, bitting showed some improvement reaching about 95% of registered consumers,
and cotlections for FY90 reached about 92% of the amount billed as compared with 79% for Fr89; however, the
aging analysis has fallen behind schedute. Urder ADB's Sixth Power Project, BPDB is in the process of
instatting two mainframe computers for computerizing the bitting systems for Dhaka and Chittagong; in
addition under Cr. 2016-80, 25 desk-top computers are being provided for automating bitting-retated
activities at 25 major electric supply units (ESUs). However, progress in ccmputerization has been slow due
to inadequate staffing and resistance by the BPDB unions. The main thrusts of the action plan to improve
revenue collection agreed in April 1990 during negotiations for IDA's proposed Power Rehabilitation Project
inctude: (i) completing consumer database updating and achieving 100% bitting; (ii) reducing bitting tag
and improving efficiency of bilting and cotLection through computerization of billing function for Dhaka,
rhittagong and 25 major ESUJs; (iii) vigorously implementing sound credit and disconnection policies and
collection arrangements with government support; (iv) strengthening revenue accounting and internal and
external auditing; and (v) improving consumer service through establishing a consumer service cell for each
ESU. Implementation of this is closely linked to the system loss reduction action plan, SPDB
computerization p-ogram and BPDB reorganization. The comprehensive TA packages proposed by IDA/ADS to
strengthen BPDB'. (and DESA's) financial management include assistance in implementing improved accounting
and internal control procedures and would provide an integrated framework for these activities.
b. Gas             1             MA                       Under Cr. 1091-BD and Cr. 1586-BD, it had been agreed that the accounts receivable of the gas companies
Companies                                              (Bakhrabad Gas Systems Limited under Cr. 1091-BD and the new gas companies under Cr. 1586-BD) woutd be
maintained at not more than 3 months' gas sates. In January 1987, BGSL's accounts receivable were
equivatent to 3.7 months of gas sales (the new gas companies had not yet been established, so the covenant
did not apply). During negotiations for the ESAC, GOB agreed that the accounts receivable of each gas
company would be reduced to the equivalent of no more than 3 months' gas sales in accordance with existing
covenants.                                                                                                         Al
0



3         Reduction of the             SGSL's audited accounts for FY88 showed its accounts receivable at 3.6 months of gas sates.  By December
accounts receivable of      1988, BGSL reported it had reduced its accounts receivable to 3.0 months' sates.  Since the new gas
each gas company to the    companies were scheduled to begin operation only in July 1989, the covenant applied only to BGSL.  Covenant
equivalent of 3 months      status at time of Board presentation (April 1989/latest data available December 1988):  in compliance.
of gas sales in
accordance with
existing agreiments
with IDA.
The accounts receivable    At the time of the December 1989 second tranche review mission, while BGSL's accounts receivable were
of each gas company to      reported to be slightly betow 3 months' gas sates, the accounts receivable of the other four gas companies
have been reduced to        were well above the covenanted 3 months; the figures as of September 30, 1989 (latest data available at time
the equivalent of no        of mission) were BGFCL--7.0 months, SGFL--4.9 months, TGTDC--4.5 months, JGTDC--3.9 months and BGSL--2.9
more than 3 months'         months of gas sales.  Following a series of actions, agreed during the mission, aimed firstly, at settling
billings.                   accounts (receivable and payable) among energy sector entities and secondly, at implementing more vigorously
existing disconnection policies for defaulting consumers, GOB reported that all but one of the gas companies
CTGTDC) were able to reduce their accounts receivable to 3 months' gas sates or less by end-February 1990
(BGSL--2.4 months, BGFCL, SGFL and JGTDC--3.0 months each, and TGTDC--3.7 months). In addition, GOB
confirmed in March 1990 that necessary measures would be taken to r4.duce further the gas companies' accounts
receivable in subsequent months.  Covenant status at time of second tranche release (June 1990/latest data
availabLe February 1990): substantial compliance.
The audited accounts to June 30, 1990, received subsequent to the second tranche release, indicate that the
gas companies have been unable to sustain the collection ratios reported by GOB in March 1990. These
accounts and more recent information show the following (months of gas sales):
BGSL         BGFCL        SGFL          JGTDC        TGTDC
June 30, 1990                3.1          6.3          5.4           3.9          4.9
March 31, 1991               2.1          2.4          4.4           5.0          3.7
Latest information indicates that only BGSL and PGFCL are in compliance.  As of March 31, 1991, about Tk
1,635 million or 73% of the receivables of the gas companies were reportedly due from goverument agencies.
Accordingly, to bring the receivables in each gas company below the covenanted 3 months' sales tevel by end-
July 1991 and as a condition for the extension of the closing date of Cr. 1586-BD, G08 confirmed in May/June
1991 that: (i) Ministry of Finance will promptly settle debts of government departments owed to the gas
companies; (ii) MEMR will concurrently settle debts of energy sector agencies; and (iii) atl other
receivables designated by Petrobangla as government corporations (e.g., SCIC, BPDB, BJMC) will be collected
by the gas companies under the same procedures and regulations accorded to commercial customers.
Furthermore, Petrobangla agreed that all uncollectible non-government consumer receivables in each gas
company will be written off or covered by provision after due legal process. Information received to date
indicates that GOB is taking the necessary measures to follow-up the above comaitments albeit somewhat more
slowly than planned.
c. BPC             1             NA                       With BPC's accounts receivable at 75 days of sales as of June 30, 1985 and with some customers such as BPDB
in default for 10 months to BPC's marketing subsidiaries, it was agreed urnder Cr. 1749-BD that: (i) BPC
would introduce a system from January 1, 1987 whereby BPC and its subsidiaries would provide credit for a
maximum of 45 days and would levy interest on amounts outstanding beyond 30 days from the billing date; and
(ii) BPDB would reduce the amounts owed to BPC's subsidiaries for petroleum products purchased up to June
30, 1986 by paying at least Tk 50 million per month until such amounts are fully paid. During preparation
of the ESAC, it was learned that aLthough a notice establishing the system had been issued, the system was  (  _
not yet being fully imptemented and BPDB, for example, was continuing to accumulate arrears.  During
negotiations for the ESAC, it was agreed that: (i) the system agreed under Cr. 1749-B9 would be amended to  0 r4
levy interest beginning on day 31 of the credit period (instead of on day 1); (ii) the system would be fullyi. X
implemented from July 1, 1987; and (iii) the first call on BPDB's monthly payments to BPC's subsidiaries             IF
would be for the Tk 50 million to discharge its accumulated arrears (where arrears are defined as amounts   o
outstanding for more than 45 days) and the remainder would be used for current obligations.
C)



3         Satisfactory                 The system was implemented as agreed from July 1, 1987.  For all customers other than BPC's marketing
implementation of BPC's   subsidiaries, BPDB and Biman, payment for petroleum product deliveries is on a cash basis.  For those
system, agreed with         customers for which credit is exterded, it is limited to 45 days from the billing date, and interest is
IDA, for collection of      charged beginning on day 31 of the credit period.  BPC's audited accounts show that in the period beteen
bills for petroteum         Juty 1, 1987 and Jure 30, 1989, its accounts receivable were redched from 112 days of sates to 91 days, and
product deliveries.         Ohose of its three subsidiaries from 87 days of sales to 65 days.  The improvement in BPC's subsidiaries'
receivables refLects the progressive reduction in BPDB's arrears from Tk 2,701 million at end-FY87 to Tk
2,275 million at end-FY89. Covenant status at time of Board presentation (April 1989): in coupliance.
5         BPC to have been oper-       Throughout FY90, BPC ccntinued to implement satisfactorily the system agreed for the collection of bills for
ating a system,             petroleum product deliveries.  FY90 figures indicate further improvement in BPC's accounts receivable to 85
satisfactory to IDA,        days of sales and in those of its subsidiaries to 55 days of sales.  As for BPDB's paying BPC's subsidiaries
for collection of bills    the requisite Tk 50 million per month, over the period July 1, 1987 to June 30, 1990, BPDB's monthty
for petroteum product       payments averaged Tk 100 miLlion.  By erd-FY9O, BPDB had reduced its arrears to Tk 1,669 mittion.  Covenant
deLiveries; and             status at time of second tranche retease (June 1990): in compliance.
Borrower to have caused
BPDB to reduce its          Throughout FY91, BPC has continued to implement the system agreed for the collection of bills for petroleum
arrears to BPC's            product deliveries, and BPDB to pay off its arrears.  As of June 1991, BPDB's arrears are reported to be Tk
subsidiaries for            1,147 million; a further favorable factor for the reduction of BPOB's arrears has been its reduced purchases
petroleum products by       of petroleum products since FY89.  It may be noted, however, that BPC's cotlection system apparently fails
not less Tk 50 million      to specify how settlement of interest is to be made. Presently, BPDB owes about Tk 450 million for interest
per month until such        (Biman about Tk 50 million); BPOB is disputing the charge and refuses to pay.  It may also be noted that
amounts have been fully    BPC's subsidiaries' receivables could have been further reduced if Biman had been required to fotlow a
paid.                       similar course of action as BPDB; Biman's arrears to BPC's subsidiaries have remained at the Tk 160 mitlion
level since end-FY87. Both of these issues will be followed up in the course of supervising Cr. 1749-BD.
O'
0
Sh
0



1/ Reference codes are as follows:
I - Action taken dcwing project preparation.
2  Condition of rnegotiation (invitation to negotiate dated June 19, 1987 and supplemntal telex dated July 6, 1987).
3 - Condition of Board presentation (pare. 24 of agreed minues of negotiations dated July 30. 1987 and agreed anwduents to agreements
recorded in the above dated March 7, 1989; additioial conditiors indicated in Mr. Asanlranas July 29, 1988 letter to Secretary, External
Resources Division).
4 - Condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 of Development Credit Agreement).
5  Condition of second tranche release (para. 2 of Schedule 1 to DCA).
6 - Other coenmat tader ESAC (Schedule 4 to DCA).
M IA - not applicable.
/ Reflects actions through end-Juie 1991 Were available.
a
10



- 55                          ATTACHMENT
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1999-BD)
COFINANCIERS' COMMENTS
Kreditstanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Germany)
The following comments on the draft PCR were received from KfW:
After reviewing the draft PCR on the captioned Project, we are impressed with
the thorough analysis and conclusions ("lessons learned"), as well as the
candid and unmistakable language of the report. We are satisfied to note that
no softening of IDA's position on future aid to Bangladesh's energy sector is
envisaged.
For a minor amendment of para. 65 (and page i), may we suggest inclusion of
KfW's condition for signing the Financing Agreement, which in the draft PCR
appears as a rather technical matter; satisfactory solution of BPDB's overdue
payments to the Government of principal and interest covenanted in previous
electricity subsector projects.1 Conditions for releasing the first and
second portions are:
-    reduction of accounts receivable to 4 and 3.5 monthly sales,
respectively;
-    decrease in the gross system losses to 35% and 32%, respectively.
We may add that during the bilateral government negotiations held in end July
no progress was recorded as regards BPDB's debt service obligation. Our
contribution to ESAC, thus, remains pending.
Again, we appreciate your sending us the draft PCR, and we are looking forward
to continued fruitful cooperation with you.
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
The following comments on the draft PCR were received from OECF:
I have received comments from OECF Tokyo regarding the draft Project
Completion Report (PCR) for subject credit. I do apologize for OECF's delayed
response to your kind invitation to comment on the draft PCR. OECF's comments
are as follows:
1 This change has been incorporated in para. 65.



- 56 -
ATTACHM4NT
Page 2 of 2
1.   Paragraph 65 implies that OECF'e cofinancing represents indirect support
for the ESAC.2 However, as is clear from paragraph 54, IDA' release of the
second tranche was premature. OECP, by declining to release its cofinancing
until the Government achieves compliance with second tranche release
conditions, is directly supporting the restoration and completion of the
program*
2.   Since the program is indeed ongoing, important conditionality remains
unfulfilled, and the cofinanciers have not completed their disbursements, it
might be more appropriate to finalize the PCR at a later date.3
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the draft PCR. We look forward to
continued cooperation and communication with the Bank regarding developments
in the energy sector of Bangladesh.
2 Para. 65 has been changed to make it clear that OECF's support is
considered "direct" cofinancing support.
3 Although disbursements under OECF's and KfW's financing for general imports
based on conditions similar to the ESAC are yet to be completed, IDA's Credit
for the ESAC has been fully disbursed and the Credit closed. Since there are
no direct linkages between the three funding sources, it is appropriate for
IDA to finalize its PCR at this time.



