Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1999 BD
(Energy Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 26, 1989
CREDIT NUMBER 1999 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
   AGREEMENT, dated April 26, 1989, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH   (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated January 19, 1988  from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen its energy sector and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution 
of such program; and
     (B)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has  requested the Association 
to assist in the financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit   
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part  of this 
Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "SEM" means the Borrower's Secondary Exchange Market;
     (b)  "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
34/Rev.3 (1986);
     (c)  "BPDB" means the Bangladesh Power Development Board established under the 
Borrower's President's Order No. 59 of 1972;
     (d)  "PBS" means a Palli Bidyut Samity, a cooperative organization established or 
to be established in accordance with the Rural Electrification  Board  Ordinance, 
1977, to operate and manage a rural electrification scheme;
     (e)  "BOGMC" means the Bangladesh Oil, Gas and Mineral Corporation established 
under the Borrower's Ordinance No. XXI of 1985;
     (f)  "BPC" means the Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation established under the 
Borrower's Ordinance No. LXXVIII of 1976;
     (g)  "Bangladesh Bank" means the Central Bank of Bangladesh established  under 
the Borrower's Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (President's Order No. 127 of 1972);
     (h)  "fiscal year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower, beginning July 1 and 
ending June 30;
     (i)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
     (j)  "gas companies" means production, transmission and distribution gas 
companies managed or held by BOGMC; and
     (k)  "Taka" and "Tk" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms  and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in  various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred thirty seven million Special  Drawing Rights (SDR 
137,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the  Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in Bangladesh Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of,  the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April  30, 1992 June 30, 1990 or  such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall  promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment  charge shall accrue 
from a date sixty days after the date of this Agreement to the respective dates on 
which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be 
cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places as the  Association 
Page  3
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the 
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency  specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.O5. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semi-annually on 
May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on  each  
May  15 and November 15 commencing May 15, 1998 1999 and ending November 15, 2027 
2028. Each installment to and including the   installment payable on November 15, 2007 
2008 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter  shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as determined 
by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five 
consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the  Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and  after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not  yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such  revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph  (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition  has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is hereby  specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.O2 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in   conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial practices, and shall  provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds  of the Credit 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association shall, not later than July 31, 
1988, October  31, 1989, exchange views on the progress achieved in the carrying out 
of the energy sector policy reforms set out in this Agreement and in the letter 
referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement.  Prior to such exchange of views, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its review and comments a report on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of said policy reforms, in such form and in such 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Page  4
Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently  maintained sound 
accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
               this Section including those for the Special Account for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
               not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
               certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
               such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
               reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph
               (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records
               (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
               audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
               auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and
               internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen  which 
shall make it improbable that the program set out in the letter referred to in the 
Preamble to this Agreement, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01. The following  event is specified as an additional  condition to 
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the  meaning of Section 
12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that BPDB's accounts receivable have been 
reduced to the equivalent of no more than four months' billings.
     Section 6.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Page  5
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Secretary or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy 
Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the External Resources Division of the Ministry of 
Finance Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          External Resources Division
          Ministry of Finance Planning
          Government of the People's
            Republic of Bangladesh
          Dhaka, Bangladesh
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                BAHIRSAMPAD                      SETU BJ 64226
                Dhaka
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of  America, as  of  the day and year first 
above written.
                   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
                   By /s/ A.H.S. Ataul Karim
Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   All goods imported into the People's Republic of Bangladesh may be financed out 
of the  proceeds of the Credit, except that no withdrawals shall be made in respect 
of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods for which payments shall not have been made through 
releases to, and consistent with the procedures governing the operation of, SEM, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree;
Page  6
     (b)  expenditures for goods to be supplied under a contract which a national or 
international financing institution or any other agency shall have financed or agreed 
to finance;
     (c)  expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose or 
for luxury consumption;
     (d)  without limitation to the foregoing paragraphs (a), (b) and (c), 
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or sub-groups or  any 
successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower:
    Group         Sub-group             Description of Items
      112         -                     Alcoholic beverages
      121         -                     Tobacco, unmanufactured
                                        tobacco refuse
      122         -                     Tobacco, manufactured
                                        (whether or not containing
                                        tobacco substitutes)
      525         -                     Radioactive and associated
                                        materials
      667         -                     Pearls, precious and semi-
                                        precious stones, unworked
                                        or worked
      718         718.7                 Nuclear reactors, and
                                        parts thereof, fuel
                                        elements (cartridges),
                                        non-irradiated for nuclear
                                        reactors
      897         897.3                 Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                        platinum group metals
                                        (except watches and watch
                                        cases) and goldsmiths'
                                        wares (including set gems)
      971         -                     Gold, non-monetary
                                        (excluding gold ores and
                                        concentrates)
     (e)  expenditures for items under SITC Group 661, Sub-group 661.2, in the form of 
clinker;
     (f)  expenditures for items under SITC Group 672, Sub-group 672.5, other  than 
billets imported exclusively for use in rerolling mills;
     (g)  expenditures for items in any single SITC Division in excess of 25% of the 
total amount of the Credit;
     (h)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
     (i)  expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; and
     (j)  payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower  on 
goods, or on the importation, procurement or supply thereof.
2.   Without limitation or restriction upon any other provisions of this Schedule, no 
withdrawals (except for withdrawals under prior commitments by  the Association) shall 
be made and no commitments shall be entered into by the  Association (to pay amounts 
to or on the order of the Borrower), in respect of expenditures to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn 
from the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached 
the equivalent of SDR  58,700,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after 
the exchange of views referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement based on evidence 
Page  7
satisfactory to the Association:
     (a)  with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of  the 
Project and the program described in the letter referred to in the Preamble to this 
Agreement; and
     (b)  that the following actions have been taken:
          (i)  the agreed priority investment program for fiscal year 1988 1989
               shall have been implemented in a manner satisfactory to the
               Association, and agreement shall have been reached on the
               priority investment program for fiscal years 1989, 1990 and
               1991, 1990, 1991 and  1992, pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule
               4 to this Agreement;
         (ii)  an increase in the price of natural gas to power, fertilizer,
               small industrial and residential consumers of at least 25% 15%
               shall have taken place with effect as of July 1, 1988 1989;
        (iii)  BPDB shall have increased its average tariff rate with effect as
               of July 1, 1988 1989 to enable it to earn a rate of return on
               the average current net value of BPDB's fixed assets in
               operation of at least 9% 4% in fiscal year 1989 1990;
         (iv)  each PBS shall have increased its average tariff rate with
               effect as of July 1, 1988 1989 to ensure that: (A) the average 
               price per kWh sold by such PBS shall not be less than the
               average price per kWh sold by BPDB; (B) as of the sixth year of
               operation of a PBS, gross revenues from all sources related to
               such PBS's operations within such fiscal year shall be
               sufficient to meet its electricity purchases, administrative
               expenses, depreciation and interest expenses; and (C) as of the
               seventh year of operation of a PBS, funds produced from
               internal sources in each fiscal year shall be equivalent to not
               less than 20% of the annual average of such PBS's capital
               expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, during such
               fiscal year and the preceding and next following fiscal years;
          (v)  the Borrower shall have implemented agreed reforms to
               electricity tariff structures pursuant to paragraph 5 of
               Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
         (vi)  the gross system losses of BPDB shall have been reduced to an
               average of 30% 32% during the preceding three months;
        (vii)  the key reforms of the gas sub-sector shall have been carried
               out pursuant to paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
       (viii)  the accounts receivable of BPDB and each gas company shall have
               been reduced to the equivalent of no more than three months'
               billings;
         (ix)  (A) BPC shall have been operating a system, satisfactory to the
               Association, for the collection of bills for deliveries of
               petroleum products; and (B) the Borrower shall have caused BPDB
               to reduce BPDB's arrears to BPC's subsidiaries for petroleum
               products by not less than Tk 50 million per month until such
               amounts have been fully paid. For purposes of this paragraph,
               the word "arrears" means amounts outstanding for more than 45
               days; and
          (x)  the implementation of arrangements, satisfactory to the
               Association, for billing BPDB's consumers, aging its accounts
               receivable, formulating a policy for writing off, and,
               thereafter, writing off, BPDB's bad debt.
3.   If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 2 above, the Association 
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress   achieved, and actions 
taken, are not satisfactory and within 90 days after  such notice the Borrower shall 
not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, then the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit or any part thereof.
Page  8
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in the extension  and 
refinement of its energy policy and to strengthen energy sector institutions.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:  Resource Development and Investment
1.   Development of long-term least-cost development plans for BPDB and BOGMC.
2.   Assessment of the technical, economic and financial viability of the exploitation 
of the coal deposits at Barapukuria.
3.   Preparation and implementation of the priority investment program for the energy 
sector.
Part B:  Energy Pricing and Demand Management
1.   Rationalization and restructuring of BPDB's and PBSs' electricity tariffs to 
reflect the economic costs of supplying different consumer groups, and each  year, if 
necessary, increase their tariff rates in order to: (i) in the case of BPDB achieve an 
adequate rate of return on revalued assets; and (ii) in the case of PBSs enable them 
to cover their operating expenses and interest and an adequate proportion of their 
investment programs.
2.   Increase of the price of natural gas each year, as necessary, to achieve, as a 
first step, equality with the economic costs of supply for each consumer group, and, 
thereafter, to reduce the gap between the price of gas and that of substitute fuels in 
order to mobilize resources for the Borrower.
3.   Increase of the margin on the price of gas received by gas companies to cover 
their costs and an adequate proportion of their investment programs.
4.   Ensuring that the weighted average retail price of petroleum products remains at 
or above the level prevailing in fiscal year 1987, and that BPC's  weighted average 
transfer price, including excise duty, exceeds c.i.f. import prices.
Part C:  Institutional Reform and Development
1.   Reorganization and strengthening of BPDB to improve the efficiency and 
effectiveness of its operational performance and development.
2.   Reduction of power system losses to reduce the waste of resources.
3.   Reorganization of BOGMC on functional lines to strengthen gas subsector entities.
4.   Reduction of accounts receivable by energy sector entities to improve their 
financial viability.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and  IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   The Guidelines are hereby modified as follows:
     (a)  By the deletion of paragraph 2.8 and the substitution therefor of the 
following:
Page  9
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international community should be notified in a timely manner
     (see also para. 2.44) of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's invitation
     list, prequalify, or bid, in at least one newspaper of general circulation
     in the Borrower's country and by at least one of the following methods:
          (i)  a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum,
               Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical
               journal of wide international circulation; or
        (iii)  notice to local representatives of countries and territories
               referred to in these Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of
               the goods required."
     (b)  By the addition at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the following:
          "As an alternative, the bidding documents may require the bidder to
          state the bid price in a single currency widely used in International
          trade and specified in the bidding documents."
     (c)  By the deletion of paragraph 2.55 and Appendix 2.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for commonly traded commodities  may be awarded on the basis   of price 
quotations available from organized international commodity markets.
2.   Whenever the Borrower and the Association shall be satisfied that goods of  a 
specific type, design or manufacture shall be required in the interest of  equipment 
standardization or of other valid considerations relating to the  efficient 
utilization of existing productive capacity, such goods, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed the equivalent of $15,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on a 
negotiated basis under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Other goods, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $2,000,000 per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of the normal 
procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for goods referred to in Part B.2 of  this 
Schedule estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines  shall apply. Where 
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to  said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making  of the 
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract for goods referred to in Part A.1 of this 
Schedule, and each contract for goods referred to in Part B.1 and B.3 of  this 
Schedule estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the  procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where 
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed  copies of the contract together 
with the other information required to be  furnished to the Association pursuant to 
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be 
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraphs, the 
procurement decisions may be reviewed by the Association on a random basis, in which 
event the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special 
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of 
the contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
Page  10
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.   For purposes of Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than April  30,  1988, 
1989 for comments, a long-term  least-cost development plan for power generation and 
transmission; and
     (b)  thereafter, carry out such plan taking into account the Association's 
comments thereon.
2.   For purposes of Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  (i) prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than April 30,  1988, 
July 31, 1989, for comments, a long-term least-cost development plan for  the gas 
sub-sector; and (ii) thereafter, carry out such plan taking into  account the 
Association's comments thereon; and
     (b)  by April 30 of each year, commencing not later than April 30, 1988 1989 and 
ending April 30, 1992, review with the Association: (i) the detailed  exploration and 
development program for the succeeding fiscal year, and (ii) the tentative program for 
the subsequent four fiscal years.
3.   For purposes of Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  carry out, with the assistance of consultants, an evaluation of the 
Barapukuria coal deposits in order to determine their technical, economic and 
financial viability;
     (b)  furnish to the Association the consultants' interim reports on the study and 
review such reports with the Association within six weeks of their submission to the 
Borrower; and
     (c)  review with the Association the consultants' draft final report of the study 
within eight weeks of its submission to the Borrower.
4.   For purposes of Part A.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  by April 30 of each year, commencing not later than April 30, 1988 1989 and 
ending April 30, 1992: (i) review with the Association the implementation of the 
priority investment program for the current fiscal year,  and (ii) prepare and furnish 
to the Association, for comments, the priority  investment program, including the 
sources for the  finance thereof, for the subsequent three fiscal years; and
     (b)  thereafter, timely carry out such programs as agreed with the Association.
5.   For purposes of Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall carry out a program, 
agreed with the Association, of reforms to the power tariff structures.
6.   For purposes of Part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  ensure that the margin on gas prices (net of excise duties) received by the 
gas companies will be set at a level sufficient to enable each gas company to finance 
its operating and administration costs, including taxes,  interest expenses and 
amortization of principal on debt, and at least: (i) 10% of its annual investment 
program from internally generated funds in fiscal year 1989; 1990 (ii) 20% in fiscal 
year 1990 1991; (iii) 30% in fiscal year 1991;  1992 and (iv) 40% in fiscal year 1992 
1993 and thereafter; and
     (b)  ensure that the gas companies will not declare a dividend until their 
respective targets set forth in paragraph (a) above have been achieved.
7.   For purposes of Part B.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
Page  11
     (a)  ensure that the weighted average retail price of petroleum products will not 
be reduced below the levels existing in fiscal year 1987; and
     (b)  implement a pricing mechanism which will ensure that BPC's weighted  average 
transfer price for petroleum products, including excise duty, exceeds  the weighted 
average c.i.f. import price by at least 15%.
8.   For purposes of Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall: carry out the dated 
action program agreed with the Association, for the reform of BPDB.
     (a)  review with the Association the findings and recommendations of the 
institutional study of BPDB;
     (b)  by March 31, 1988, prepare a dated and monitorable action program  for the 
reform of BPDB, satisfactory to the Association; and
     (c)  thereafter, carry out such action program.
9.   For purposes of Part C.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall carry out the dated 
action plan agreed with the Association, for the reorganization of the gas sub-sector.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in  
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (b)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to SDR 
23,500,000 $30,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited  in the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit  Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment of 
the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the basis 
of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from  the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special 
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.  Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit  Account in the respective equivalent amounts as shall 
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this  Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the  time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no further 
deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when  either of the 
following situations first arises:
          (i)  the Association shall have determined that all further
               withdrawals can be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Page  12
               Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
               General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus the amount of 
               any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
               Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
               shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the  Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount  not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association for crediting to the Credit Account) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. No further  deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be 
made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
