                                                                                                           95242
Albania Natural Resources Development Project                                                           June 14, 2010




 FORESTRY

 Natural Resources Development Project




Overview
Forests cover more than 50 % of Albania’s surface area. The post-communist transition period
in Albania was characterized by a massive internal and external migration of population, weak
enforcement of laws    and regulations, and overuse of natural resources − all of which resulted
                     moll
in considerable degradation of forests and pastures and erosion of soil. In response, the
International Development Association (IDA) and the Swedish government supported
participatory forest and pasture management planning and investment in 251 rural communes
through the National Resource Development Project (NRDP). These investments have helped
to support increases in income earned from forest and agricultural activities in communal areas
and a significant reduction in erosion, and Albania is now one of the first countries to sequester
carbon on eroded lands through the BioCarbon Fund.


Challenge                                              MULTIMEDIA
Following roughly two decades of transition,          Loading the player ...
illegal logging, and overgrazing of forests and
pasture lands, Albanians living in rural areas
started to become conscious of the damaging
effects these practices were having on the
environment. To address this, residents
organized in community-based organizations
with their main goals of protecting and rationally
using their resources.


Approach
Participatory planning and management of forest
and pasture lands was piloted in only 30 communes during
the implementation of the Albanian Forestry Project financed        More Results
by the World Bank (1996-2003). Given its positive outcome
and wide community support, the approach was extended
under the NRDP Project in more than 200 communes. This
experience led to the decision of the government of Albania
in June 2008 to formalize forest land rights transfers to 345
communes - resources which are used by almost one million
                                                                    220,000
                                                                    tons of erosion reduced,
people. The project has addressed the issues of soil                improved water management,
degradation and improved watersheds by (1) financing                and conservation of biodiversity,
                                                                    and forest protection, which is
participative forest management planning; (2) piloting the          contributing to less
preparation of micro-catchment plans which integrate                sedimentation in the irrigation
                                                                    channels and hydropower dams.
agriculture, forest and pasture management; (3) financing
investments in forestry, pasture and agricultural lands; and
(4) financing carbon sequestration activities on commune
forest lands through payments from the BioCarbon Fund.              MORE INFORMATION
                                                                    Slide-Show: Forestry

Results                                                             Slide-Show: Albanian Carbon
                                                                    Sequestration
The project worked with 251 communes (33 more than the
project objective). It is estimated that the improved              Project documents
management of Albania’s forest and pasture resources and
watersheds in 251 communes, through participatory
planning, institutional change support and small-scale
investments in planting of forests and orchards in degraded
lands, thinning and cleaning of degraded forests and pastures, erosion and grazing control
measures, contributed between 2005 and 2011 to:

      an 8 % increase in income earned from forest activities in communal forest and pasture
      lands;

      a 28 % increase in income earned from forest and agriculture activities in micro-
      catchments;

      approximately 220,000 ton reduction in erosion; and

      the establishment of forest and pasture extension service.

Albania is one of the first countries to sequester carbon on eroded lands. The Biocarbon Fund,
a public/private initiative administered by the World Bank, reached an agreement with the
government in June 2007 to purchase emission reductions received from carbon sequestration
activities.
Partners
The IDA team worked closely with (i) the Ministry of Environment, Forestry and Water
Administration of Albania, which was responsible for overall project management; (ii)
communes involved in the approval of forest management plans and supervision of
investments; and (iii) Forest and Pasture Users Associations that participated in the process of
preparation of management plans and implemented the investments. Key Development
Partners included the Swedish government, which provided a financial contribution to the
project.
Voices



           Given its large areas of abandoned and highly eroded lands,
           Albania had great potential for carbon sequestration. This
          would attract the attention of other investors to help Albania
          afforest its degraded lands, while at the same time be able to
               sequester some carbon − bringing direct benefits to
         the communities that are part of this scheme as well as to the
                                     globe.
                               — Drita Dade, WB Project Team Task Leader




                You have to have been here 10 years ago to see – no
          vegetation but much degraded lands and overgrazed forests.
         Through some interventions under the World Bank Project we
         made a huge service to the forest. We cleaned and thinned it to
           allow good woods to grow better and to open space for the
           wildlife to come back in our forests. We stopped goats and
          animals from grazing for the first three years. What we see
          here now shows that with proper management we can have
           good quality of timber, and animals and other plants are
                                coming back.
                            — A farmer from Gjalish, Uleza Commune, Mat.


Toward the Future

More sustainable, community-based natural resource management in Albania will lead to
enhanced productivity, incomes, and, overall, improvements in land and water resources for
the public sector. The NRDP has been at the forefront of developing Payment for
Environmental Services (PES) and mitigation against climate change by providing a scheme to
finance carbon sequestration on commune forest land through payments from the Bio Carbon
Fund to local actors. Additional research is needed to quantify the benefits and costs of
providing these services, with the ultimate goal of ensuring they are self financing in the long
term. In addition, follow-up operations could take advantage of European Union accession
funds provided for rural development to strengthen further the capacities of forest users’
associations.


NB: This story, originally published in 2010, was updated to reflect results captured in the
Implementation Completion Report (2012).
