 IEG
                                                                                          Report Number: ICRR14878

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                    Date Posted: 10/16/2015

               Country: Nicaragua
             Project ID: P110092                                              Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Ni Greater Managua         Project Costs (US$M):                     40                38.5
                         Water And Sanitation
                         (prasma)
  L/C Number:                                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                     40                 38
      Sector Board:      Water                      Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                             Board Approval Date :                              12/16/2008
                                                             Closing Date:          02/28/2014         02/28/2015
         Sector(s):       Wastewater Collection and Transportation (50%); Water supply (50%)
         Theme(s):        Urban services and housing for the poor (100%)


Prepared by:              Reviewed by:          ICR Review                Group:
                                                Coordinator:
Maha J. Armaly            Peter Nigel Freeman   Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:
 According to the Financing Agreement (4527-NI and H4300-NI dated January 21, 2009, p.5, the
objective of the Project is to increase access by the population of the Greater Managua region to reliable
water and improved sanitation services. The definition is similar in the PAD, p. 5.


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

c. Components:
 Component 1: Coverage Extension and Improvement for WSS in Low -Income Neighborhoods - Original
Cost US$20 million (IDA US$20 million). Final Cost US$17.17.
This component financed studies and works related to the following activities:
Water Supply: (a) construction of new primary, secondary and tertiary networks; (b) Replacement or
rehabilitation of primary, secondary and tertiary networks; (c) Supporting infrastructure (valve chambers,
macro-meters, etc.);
Sanitation: (a) Construction of new primary, secondary and tertiary networks; (b) Minor replacement or
rehabilitation of existing networks as needed; (c) New network extension to connect to existing primary
collectors.
After the intervention, all inhabitants in the targeted neighborhoods should have access to a continuous or
nearly continuous supply of drinking water, as well as adequate sewers. All connections include metering.
This component also financed similar activities in Managua’s satellite cities, among others Tipitapa and
Ciudad Sandino, which suffer from similar challenges. Some investments in rehabilitation or repair of
existing wastewater treatment systems were also included.

Component 2: Improvement of Water Supply and Efficiency in Selected Areas - Cost
US$15 million (IDA US$15 million). Final Cost US$17.34
This component financed activities to reduce water losses in the system in six macrosectores in the
southwestern part of the city, along with two satellite cities: Tipitapa and Ciudad Sandino. Activities
include:
Supply side: (a) Rehabilitation and capacity extension for water sources (mostly boreholes); (b) Increase
in adduction and storage capacity (pumping stations, water storage tanks); (c) Increase in wastewater
collector capacity; (d) Rehabilitation and extension of low-technology wastewater treatment systems.
Efficiency: (a) Leak reduction campaigns; (b) Registration of illegal connections; (c) Creation of District
Metering Areas through the installation of macro-meters and the installation of valves creating separate
and independent supply zones; (d) Optimization of energy consumption in pumping systems through
better system management
Demand side: (a) Metering at a household level; (b) Updating the user registry (cadastro de usuarios); (c)
Improvement of billing and collection practices targeted to low-income households.

Component 3: Institutional Strengthening and Project Monitoring and Evaluation - Cost
US$5 million (IDA US$5 million). Final Cost US$3.49:
Sub-Component 3A: Institutional Strengthening :
This sub-component financed activities identified in the Institutional Development plans of the Nicaraguan
Water and Sewerage Enterprise (ENACAL) and is complementary to financing from the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) , such as: (a) Technical assistance, as well as goods and services; (b) Tariff
studies and appropriate payment mechanisms for low-income neighborhoods; (c) Trainings and study
tours in countries with similar conditions, and (d) Other activities necessary to strengthen the utility
Sub-component 3B: Project Management and Monitoring : This sub-component financed the incremental
costs of non-staff salary, travel, and the operating costs of personnel working on the project’s
implementation within ENACAL. It also finances M&E activities, including the collection of information and
development of reports for continued evaluation. It also covers audits.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 The total estimated Project cost at appraisal was US$40 million originally to be fully financed by IDA
through a Sector Investment Loan. At completion, total cost remained at US$38.5 million of which
US$0.59 million was contributed by the Government. US$ 2 million were cancelled from the loan due to
mis-procurement. The Project was appraised in October 2008, and became effective in May 2009. There
was one extension of the closing date from February 2014 to February 2015 in order to complete ongoing
works. Restructuring was formally finalized in December 2013.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
At the time of appraisal, Nicaraguan poor urban dwellers had 26.5% access to piped water and only 1.2%
had in-house toilets. About 72.5% utilized latrines and the remainder had no access to sanitation
services. The Nicaraguan Water and Sewerage Enterprise (ENACAL) was responsible for the provision
of Water and Sanitation Services to urban areas and had difficulties extending services to the population.

The Project objective was highly relevant to the Bank and Government strategies at the time of appraisal.
The Bank Country Partnership Strategy for Nicaragua (CPS) dated October 11, 2007, (FY08-12) (p. 23)
was aligned to the Government’s priorities and supported infrastructure and sustainable development;
and strengthening governance and accountability by modernizing state institutions and promoting citizen
participation, which are well reflected in the Project. The Government’s Economic and Financial Program
(2007-2009) targets improved coverage and service quality through reduced system losses and improved
cost recovery (CPS p. 16).

The Project’s objectives are substantially relevant to the current government and Bank strategies.
Nicaragua’s National Plan for Human Development 2007-2012 emphasized increasing poverty-related
spending and boosting investment in social sectors and rural infrastructure, including expanding access
and achieving efficiency in the delivery of basic services (CPS 2013-2017 October 3, 2012 p. 8). The
Bank’s role in the current strategy (p. 23) is to continue supporting the design of the national water and
sanitation strategy. Complementary efforts to broaden access to potable water and improved sanitation
are also envisaged as part of the agenda to improve health outcomes. The Bank will continue providing
strategic and policy support to the sector aimed at improving financial sustainability in the urban systems
and mobilization of additional financial resources for the rural sector to help reduce the current gaps. The
Bank will support the development of new techniques of sanitation marketing, and disaster risk mitigation
in urban water systems. The Project did not emphasize financial sustainability in its objective although it
included 100% cost recovery as an outcome indicator. The reasons for this approach are (a) this was the
first operation for the Bank in the sector; (b) other donors were already engaged and aiming to tackle this
issue; and (c) such division of labor was requested by the Government. Nevertheless, the Bank team
opted to include the indicator remain engaged and to be able to monitor this indicator. A 100% cost
recovery though ambitious and not achieved, was not unrealistic given the starting point of 81%.

The overall relevance of objective is substantial.

b. Relevance of Design:
The design of the project is substantially relevant to the objective of the Project. The stated objective is
straight forward: to increase access of the population of the Greater Managua region to reliable water
and improved sanitation services. Reliability is well defined: piped potable water with adequate pressure
and continuity of at least 16 hours per day, 7 days a week. The outcome indicators track the number of
beneficiaries for these two services. The outcomes also include an indicator for cost recovery which is
not stated in the objective. The components address investments in water and sanitation and
infrastructure to extend and improve services and efficiency. The third component includes support for
implementation, studies on tariffs and payments and training. The components do not include sufficient
emphasis on cost recovery to reach the target that was set. The tariff study was dropped and there were
too many variables that the ICR considered “beyond the responsibility” of the implementing agency to
affect this objective/target.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

The objective of the Project is to increase access to reliable water and sanitation services to the
population of the Greater Managua Region.

Outputs:

-        14,298 new household water connections completed vs. 14,100 new water connections revised
target. 1500 rehabilitated water connections were completed vs. 1500 rehabilitated water connections
revised target. A total of 15,798 water connections vs. 15600 revised target water connections. The
original target number of new and rehabilitated connections was 15,000.
-        1 water utility was supported as planned. (new core indicator)
-        19,716 sewer new or rehabilitated connections completed vs. an original target of 30,000
connections and a revised target of 19,000. (The revised target value is due to cancellation of some
funds for sewer connections).
-        54% increase in collections vs. 90% original, 65% revised targets and 44% baseline
-        37.5 million m3 of water passed through micro meters vs. a revised target of 29.8 million m3 and
a baseline of 25.5 million m3 (new/change).
-        26,339 illegal water connections were registered vs. 15,000 original target.

Outcomes:

-       161,896 beneficiaries receive reliable water vs. 150,000 targeted.
-       62,295 beneficiaries access improved sanitation vs. 54,830 revised and 120,000 original
beneficiaries.
-       Cost recovery ratio achieved was 0.64 vs. a target of 1.0 and an original 0.81 ratio.
-     Total collections of US$849,317,748 vs. a new target of US$750,000,000, and a baseline of
US$599,755,335 baseline in 2008. (new)

Prior to restructuring, the Project achieved or over achieved 3 out of 5 of the original target outputs
Prior to restructuring the Project achieved or over achieved 1 out of 3 original outcomes
Efficacy is rated modest.

Following restructuring, the Project achieved or over achieved 5 out of 6 of revised target outputs
Following restructuring the Project achieved or over achieved 3 out of 4 revised outcomes
Efficacy is rated substantial.
The Project succeeded in achieving the access targets that reflected the Project Objective, but failed in
achieving the important intended target of cost recovery. With regard to intermediate indicators, the
Project delivered on all of them except for the sewer connections - which was due to misprocurement that
led to the cancellation of sanitation works in 9 neighborhoods.

5. Efficiency:
  At appraisal, cost benefit analysis was conducted using avoided costs, hedonic prices and willingness to
pay. The water and sewerage components were analyzed separately and then aggregated to provide an
indication of the overall economic viability of the project. The project was estimated to generate a net
benefit to the economy of US$21.1 million, an overall economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of 24.7
percent and a benefit cost ratio of 1.5. Each of the individual components were found economically viable
with an EIRR ranging from 17.2 to 26 percent. A sensitivity analysis was conducted which demonstrated
the robustness of the results.

For the ICR, a similar approach utilizing avoided costs. Pre- and post- economic analysis use a discount
rate of 12%. The ICR presents a thorough economic analysis with sound background research
particularly on the health impact in order to establish the benefits.

The analysis compares costs estimate at completion with the cost estimates at appraisal by discounting
the final costs to 2008 levels and concludes that final costs were 12% lower than estimates (p. 28).

For the water expansion component, benefits were estimated based on surveys that measured time spent
on collecting water, the cost of containers used for storing water and the number of households that
bought or boiled water. The resulting avoided costs/benefits was US$13/household per month as
compared to the willingness to pay at appraisal of US$11.5 per household per month.

For the sanitation component, the analysis relied on a study on the Economics of Sanitation in Nicaragua
(2012) and estimated the avoided costs of health care, productivity loss, premature death, and the time
using other out-of-home sanitary solutions. A 45% factor was applied to attribute benefits to sanitation.
The results show that the total benefit per household is US$15/month.

For the efficiency gains, that savings in operating costs were not attained because water losses did not
materialize by the end of the Project (ICR p. 31). The monthly cost of operation and management of
storing water by households (US$7) was less than the willingness to pay at appraisal (US$11).

For the Wastewater Treatment Plant investment, due to the difficulty of the exercise and given that the
benefits were outside the objective of the Project, the environmental benefits in Lake Managua were not
measured but are assumed to be substantial. The benefits that were estimated were based on the
increase in connections over 5 years, using the tariff established in 2002.

Comparing the real costs and benefits of the Project, the overall rate of return is 18.9% and the net
present value is US$13.44 million. (ICR p. 32)

The ICR compares average costs per connection under this Project with several similar projects in the
region and finds that water connections were 30% lower and sanitation connections were 60% lower than
the respective averages in the region.
Technical Efficiency. The economic analysis refers to an increase in water losses (p. 31). The team
explained that this was due to increased water production and distribution in the system.

Financial Efficiency. A shortcoming in the efficiency performance of the Project/ENACAL is the
deterioration in the cost recovery indicator.

Administrative Efficiency. Misprocurement caused delays. The closing date was extended by one year to
complete ongoing contracts.

Based on the above, efficiency is rated substantial.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                      Yes                                     24.7%                                    100%

    ICR estimate                   Yes                                      18%                                     100%
                                      * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:
   Prior to restructuring, relevance is rated substantial, efficacy is rated modest and efficiency is rated
substantial, leading to a moderately unsatisfactory outcome
Following the restructuring, relevance is rated substantial, efficacy is rated substantial and efficiency is
rated substantial, leading to a satisfactory outcome.

The mid-term review was completed in September 2011, triggered restructuring (which was signed in
December 2013) and initiated marked improvements in disbursements. The reason for the delay in
signing was ongoing elections in Nicaragua. Taking the mid-point between these two dates,
disbursements were at 37.5%. Applying this rate to to the ratings of outcome yields a moderately
satisfactory project outcome.

 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The PAD and the ICR (including the Borrower’s report) acknowledge the need for attention to the
maintenance of the infrastructure built under the Project. The challenge is paused due to the lack of
financial resources/cost recovery which diverts attention to more urgent repairs, as well as the need for
equipment (p. 50). The lack of success by the Project in furthering financial performance is a substantial
risk, mitigated by the awareness of ENACAL and the government of the issue and the continued Bank
support in policy dialogue and investments by other donors. The Government has requested the Bank to
continue its engagement on the policy front and by providing technical assistance on issues of energy
efficiency and non-revenue water, and the Bank has developed policy notes to support cost recovery.
Efficiency programs established under the Project were replicated in other cities (e.g. the condominial
sewerage system, NRW water activities and social and environmental concerns). The lack of progress on
non-revenue water reduction despite the emphasis given to it by the Project indicates a need for
additional attention. The Government has consistently provided subsidies to operational (95% covered -
ICR p. 17) and capital costs (100% in this Project) which moderately mitigates the risk of the deterioration
of the assets. Such a policy is not sustainable in the long run, and is not sufficient to pursuing a policy of
cost recovery in order to maintain and expand the system.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High
8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:
   The Project was a new engagement by the Bank in the Nicaraguan water and sanitation sector.
The Bank incorporated lessons learned from other projects in the region and cooperated with other
donors to learn from their experiences. Project design and monitoring framework was simple and
straightforward focusing on delivering infrastructure services to beneficiaries – responding to the
request of the borrower given the stronger involvement in reform by other donors (PAD p. 13). The
Bank team did not pursue difficult reform measures, but introduced them into the Project discussions
and in the results framework, and at the same time recognized them as a risk to the Project.

The Project utilized staff from the utility company ENACAL to strengthen the institution and to keep the
Project integrated in the Government’s program. The Project included a strong focus on social and
environmental aspects of the Project and included training for ENACAL’s staff. The inclusion of
training in hygiene practices strengthened the positive impact of the Project on final beneficiaries.

The components directly addressed the Project objectives of improving access to water and sanitation
services. The results framework was simple and the indicators measurable without undue difficulty to
the Borrower. The Project was ready within a year and conformed to Bank fiduciary and safeguard
policies.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                   Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:
  The Borrower appreciated the Bank’s technical expertise and support to develop the commercial
management, non-revenue water, condominial sewerage and social and environmental interventions.
The Bank was responsive to the Government’s request to include investments to upgrade the
wastewater treatment plant, and prepared a sector policy note and a modernization strategy. The
Bank team remained involved in and supported the higher level and long term goals of the utilities.

Implementation support missions were regularly undertaken 2-3 times a year. The mid-term review
was undertaken on time, was comprehensive and used to undertake the restructuring. Problems in
procurement caused delays, including misprocurement and a rebidding. Earlier detection of technical
difficulties was necessary in some cases (illegal connections, ICR p. 7, and metering, p. 15).
Safeguards were successfully undertaken and monitored closely by the Bank.


  Quality of Supervision Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :          Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:
    The Government as represented by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit was highly committed
to the Project during preparation and implementation. The government demonstrated strong
leadership in the process making clear what its development plan requires, while managing donors
participation. It asked for the involvement of the Bank in specific activities in coordination with other
donors. It remained involved in Project implementation progress and was active in policy discussions.
However the Government did not take important reform measures such as increasing tariffs. A
shortcoming in the Government's performance is its hesitancy to take action on cost recovery.

The Municipality of Managua facilitated project implementation by providing appropriate response to
involuntary resettlement which was acceptable to the Bank.
   Government Performance Rating                        Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:
   The implementing agency the Nicaraguan Water and Sewerage Enterprise, ENACAL, was highly
committed to the Project. ENACAL housed the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) which incorporated
the required staff from several departments. The Unit was well staffed and effectively undertook
Project activities in 27 neighborhoods. Social and environmental staff provided training to contractors
and ensured adherence to requirements. Staff were responsible for implementing and monitoring of
hygiene practices, proper operation of meters and toilets to enhance the effectiveness of the
investments and the benefits to users. ENACAL used its own funds to finalize activities to ensure
project completion. Shortcomings were present in the performance of procurement and financial
activities, which in the case of procurement led to misprocurmeent and eliminated support to 9
neighborhoods. Additionally, cutting household’s informal connections which was finally done by
ENACAL (ICR p. 7). Meter installation and billing faced logistical challenges (ICR p. 15) that limited
the impact of the investments. According to the Project team, these issues were or continue to be
resolved by ENACAL.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:
   The results framework had a simple design and indicators that were mostly relevant and measurable.
They reflected well objectives and content of the Project, and were easy to adjust during restructuring.
The outcome indicators reflected the objectives of providing access to reliable water and sanitation. The
financial efficiency outcome indicators, while not part of the statement of objective, were necessary to
engage with the borrower and the donors on policy issues. The output indicators focused on the number
of connections, but also included the impact on poor beneficiaries, as well as financial indicators.

b. M&E Implementation:
   The PCU within ENACAL was responsible for collecting, verifying and monitoring the M&E data from
various departments. The results framework was adjusted during the restructuring to reflect the changes
that has been occurring, including the cancellation of a sewerage connection contract. With the difficulties
in achieving the financial outcome indicator, the teams introduced a simpler indicator showing the
increase in collection to reflect ENACAL’s efforts to improve revenues based on a program to eliminate
consumer debts (ICR p. 14). The indicator is not sufficiently robust to account for the reasons of
improvements in revenue collection as total revenues would include new connections. The task team
indicated that a program was in place to reduce debt and improve collections. The study on tariff
structure was dropped and was to be financed by other donors.

c. M&E Utilization:
   The M&E framework was used to show progress of the Project in achieving its objectives and flagged
delays, particularly at the end of the Project (ICR p. 6). It was used to engage the borrower in reform
issues and financial sustainability during and after the Project. The ICR (p.9) emphasizes the role of the
indicators in engaging the borrower in the policy dialogue on cost recovery, ENACAL's performance and
the overall sustainability of the water and sanitation sector. The ICR indicates that such a dialogue led
ENACAL to take actions to improve collections.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues
a. Safeguards:
Overall compliance with safeguard requirements is rated Satisfactory in the ICR. (ICR p. 9)

Environment. The Project triggered Environmental Assessment (OP4.01) Category (B). Project
environmental performance was rated Satisfactory, given the emphasis on including environment related
requirements in contracts and good supervision by ENACAL staff. The upgrading of the wastewater
treatment plant had in mind a positive environmental impact on Lake Managua. With the addition of the
wastewater treatment plant investment, the Environmental Impact Assessment was updated and public
consultation were held.

Social/Resettlement. The Project triggered Involuntary Resettlement (OP4.12) and adhered to the
requirements during implementation. Contracts included social consideration, and ENACAL carried out
quality control checks on site and provided technical assistance to contractors. With the Municipality of
Managua, the PCU managed the resettlement of 31 families, who were found to be highly satisfied with
their new homes in an ex-post review.

The ICR does not report on OP 4.04 for Natural Habitats and OP 4.11 for Physical Cultural Resources,
which were triggered during preparation. The task team indicated that the OPs were discussed during
missions and no issues were encountered during implementation.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement was undertaken using Bank guidelines for procurement and engagement of consultants and
was rated Moderately Satisfactory in the ICR. ENACAL did not have experience with Bank procurement
process, but had experience in the procurement requirement of other donors. Training was provided
during preparation, but was not sufficient to avoid delays. The ICR p. 8 indicates the lack of capacity to
prepare technical specifications, bid documents and to conduct the bidding process. A case of
mis-procurement caused delays and the cancellation of US$ 2 million. Another bid had to be relaunched.
(ICR p. 8). The Project required annual procurement audits to be undertaken. The ICR does not report
on the results. According to the team, procurement audits were undertaken annually as per the legal
agreement, and the findings of the ICR on procurement are based on these audits.

Financial Management was conducted in compliance with Bank requirements and rated Moderately
Satisfactory. FM shortcomings persisted throughout implementation. Two issues were identified:
weaknesses in internal control due to use of excel spreadsheets to manage accounts; and report of an
unexpected deficit of $500,000 at the end of the Project. The deficit was due to miscalculation of
exchange rates and an in crease in costs (ICR p. 10). The ICR does not report on the outcome of the
annual financial audits. According to the Project team, audit reports were received, but with some delays.
Most reports were unqualified, with recommendations on internal control issues which were usually
addressed by management of ENACAL.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
The Project had other positive impacts notably: (a) reducing the volume of discharge of contaminated
water into Lake Managua following the construction of the waste water plant; (b) institutional development
of ENACAL and its staff through introduction of innovative new techniques and practices, emphasis on
non-revenue water, coordination among several departments (ICR p. 13).

d. Other:
The Project focused in its design and implementation on services to low income settlements. At the end
of the Project, 73% of the beneficiaries were in low income settlements vs. a plan of 50%.

12. Ratings:                         ICR               IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                            Disagreement/Comments
                   Outcome: Moderately            Moderately
                            Satisfactory          Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   High           Despite good intentions, the
                     Outcome:                                              Government did not take action to
                                                                           move to cost recovery, which has
                                                                           actually deteriorated from levels before
                                                                           the Project
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
  The ICR provides the following lessons with which the IEG review concurs.
1.       The benefit of integrating PCUs in the agency responsible for the sector in terms of institutional
development and contribution to the success of the project outweighs the potential costs of a unique
compartmentalized PCU dedicated to one Bank Project.
2.      A simplified project focusing on physical infrastructure and access to beneficiaries is more likely
to succeed in achieving its clear objectives especially given a determined government with a clear
vision and preference to gradual approach to reform.
3.      Emphasis on social inclusion and public participation when targeting low income settlements
improves acceptance of the Project and the safeguarding of assets built.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is well written, candid and describes well the challenges faced in meeting the Project’s objective.
Minor shortcomings include:
(a)      Over-emphasis on the financial sustainability and operations of the utility, which was not a major
focus of the Project. Nevertheless, the discussion was necessary during and post implementation in
order to keep the Government’s commitment and focus on this important issue.
(b)      The economic analysis is extensive and provides detailed background on the assumptions (e.g.
time saved, health cost savings), for each component separately. The analysis does not provide a
comprehensive view of the final quantified costs and benefits of each component and the totals for the
project for easy reference to the reader.
(c)      The cost table in Annex 1 is not adjusted for the cancellation of US$ 2 million due to
misprocurement.
(d)       The ICR does not provide a discussion of the annual financial audit reports and their outcome.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
