                                  Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00003467



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IDA-45270 and H4300)



                                     ON A

                             CREDIT AND GRANT

            IN THE AMOUNT OF XDR27 MILLION (US$40 MILLION)

                                    TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA

                                    FOR A

          GREATER MANAGUA WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT



                                August 17, 2015




Water Global Practice
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             At Appraisal (October 31, 2008)
                  SDR0.67112 = US$1
                  US$1.49004 = SDR1
                   C$19.6874 = US$1
                    US$.0508 = C$1

             At Closure (February 27, 2015)
                 SDR 0.71053 = US$1
                 US$1.407390 = SDR1
                  C$26.8054 = US$1
                   US$.03731 = C$1


         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AECID     Spanish Agency for International Development
          Cooperation
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DANF      Departamento de Agua no Facturada, Department of
          Unbilled Water
ENACAL    Nicaraguan Water and Sewerage Enterprise
ESI       Economics of Sanitation Initiative
ESMAP     Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
FAD       Spanish Fund for Development Assistance
FM        Financial Management
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GON       Government of Nicaragua
GMR       Greater Managua Region
IADB      Inter-American Development Bank
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA       International Development Association
IRR       Internal Rate of Return
JICA      Japanese International Cooperation Agency
KfW       German Development Bank
MDGs      Millennium Development Goals
MHCP      Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
MINSA     Ministry of Health
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NRW       Non-Revenue Water
ORS       Oral Rehydration Salts
     PAD               Project Appraisal Document
     PDO               Project Development Objectives
     PCU               Project Coordination Unit
     PHRD              Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
     PISASH            Nicaragua’s Program for Humane Water and Sanitation
     PRASMA            Greater Managua Water and Sanitation Project
     TA                Technical Assistance
     VSL               Value of Statistical Life
     WSP               Water and Sanitation Program
     WSS               Water Supply and Sanitation
     WWTP              Wastewater Treatment Plant




Vice President:                         Jorge Familiar
Country Director:                       J. Humberto López
Practice Manager:                       Wambui Gichuri
Project Team Leader:                    Lilian Pena P. Weiss
ICR Team Leader:                        Lilian Pena P. Weiss
                                                      Table of Contents

Data Sheet ............................................................................................................................ i
     A. Basic Information ................................................................................................... i
     B. Key Dates ............................................................................................................... i
     C. Ratings Summary ................................................................................................... i
     D. Sector and Theme Codes....................................................................................... ii
     E. Bank Staff .............................................................................................................. ii
     F. Results Framework Analysis ................................................................................ iii
     G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ............................................................. vii
     H. Restructuring (if any) .......................................................................................... vii

Section 1. Project Context, Development Objectives & Design Context ........................... 1
Section 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................... 4
Section 3. Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................. 10
Section 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ................................................ 19
Section 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................ 20
Section 6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................... 21
Section 7. Borrower Comments ........................................................................................ 23
Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 24
Annex 2: Outputs by Component ..................................................................................... 25
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 26
Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ................ 42
Annex 5: List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 44
Annex 6: Borrower’s Report ............................................................................................. 45
Annex 7: Map ................................................................................................................... 52




                                                                                                                                       1
Data Sheet


A. Basic Information
                                                                          NI Greater Managua
Country:                Nicaragua               Project Name:             Water and Sanitation
                                                                          (PRASMA)
                                                                          IDA-45270, IDA-
Project ID:             P110092                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          H4300
ICR Date:               07/24/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          NICARAGUA
Original Total
                        XDR 27.00M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 25.63M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 25.63M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Nicaraguan Water and Sewerage Enterprise (ENACAL)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: Not Applicable


B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/07/2008     Effectiveness:            05/11/2009         05/11/2009
Appraisal:            10/23/2008     Restructuring(s):                            12/23/2013
Approval:             12/16/2008     Mid-term Review:          10/10/2011         09/26/2011
                                     Closing:                  02/28/2014         02/28/2015


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:               Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:

                                                                                                  i
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                    QAG Assessments
                                   Indicators                                         Rating
     Performance                                         (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                     Quality at Entry
Project at any time          Yes                                              None
                                                     (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Wastewater Collection and Transportation                                50                   41
Water Supply                                                            50                   48
Public Administration - Water, Sanitation and Flood
                                                                         0                   11
Protection



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Urban services and housing for the poor                                 100                100


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:              Jorge Familiar                       Pamela Cox
Country Director:            J. Humberto López                    Laura Frigenti
Practice
                             Wambui G. Gichuri                    Guang Zhe Chen
Manager/Manager:
                                                                  Maria Angelica Sotomayor and
Project Team Leader:         Lilian Pena P. Weiss
                                                                  David Michaud
ICR Team Leader:             Lilian Pena P. Weiss                 Not Applicable
ICR Primary Author:          Elizabeth Hunter Eiseman             Not Applicable




                                                                                                    ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The Project's Development Objective is to increase access to reliable* water and sanitation
services to the population of the Greater Managua Region (GMR).

*Reliable water is defined as piped potable water with adequate pressure and continuity of at least 16 hours
per day, 7 days per week.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)

The PDO was not revised during the life of the Project.




                                                                                                         iii
(a) PDO Indicators
                                 Original Target                           Actual Value
                                  Values (from       Formally Revised       Achieved at
  Indicator    Baseline Value
                                     approval         Target Values        Completion or
                                   documents)                              Target Years
               Additional beneficiaries with access to reliable water supply in the targeted
Indicator 1
               neighborhoods.
Value         0               150,000                                   161,896
Date          11/14/2008      02/28/2014                                12/31/2014

              This indicator was 108% achieved. Reliable water is defined at the PAD. The
Comments      Project increased water reliability through water infrastructure, pressure
              management, leaks identification and repair.

               Additional beneficiaries with access to improved sanitation services in the
Indicator 2
               targeted neighborhoods.
Value         0                  120,000               54,830                62,295
Date          11/14/2008         02/28/2014            02/28/2015            12/31/2014
               This indicator was 114% achieved. The target was reduced in 2013 due to:
Comments       cancellation of funds for sewerage; transferring of sewerage funds to the WWTP;
               and revision of the original connection to sewerage rate to a more realistic one.
Indicator 3    Increased ENACAL's cost recovery ratio
Value         0.81               1.0                                         0.64
Date          11/14/2008         02/28/2014                                  12/31/2014
               The target was not met. Factors beyond ENACAL’s control (energy prices,
               tariff levels, staffing policies) decreased the cost recovery ratio. To capture
Comments
               PRASMA’s positive impact on ENACAL’s sustainability, the total collection
               amount indicator was added.
Indicator 4    Total Collection (Amount (USD))
Value         599,755,335                              750,000,000           849,317,748
Date          11/14/2008                               02/28/2015            12/31/2014
               This indicator was 113% achieved. This indicator was added in the December
Comments       2013 restructuring to capture the Project’s success in improving ENACAL’s
               financial situation through its efficiency activities.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicators

                                       Original Target                 Actual Value
                                                         Formally
                                         Values (from                   Achieved at
  Indicator        Baseline Value                         Revised
                                           approval                    Completion or
                                                       Target Values
                                          documents)                   Target Years
              New piped household water connections that are resulting from the project
Indicator 1
              intervention (Number, Core)
Value                     0                 14,100                         14,298
Date                 11/14/2008           02/28/2014                     12/31/2014
Comments      This indicator was 101% achieved. Core Indicator

                                                                                              iv
              Piped household water connections that are benefiting from rehabilitation works
Indicator 2
              undertaken by the project
Value                      0                    1,500                               1,500
Date                 11/14/2008              02/28/2015                          12/31/2014
Comments      This indicator was 100% achieved. Core Indicator.
Indicator 3   Number of water utilities that the project is supporting (Number, Core)
Value                      1                                                          1
Date                 11/14/2008                                                  12/31/2014
              This indicator was 100% achieved. Core Indicator. PRASMA supported
Comments      ENACAL through financing infrastructure investments and institutional capacity
              building activities.
              Number of additional new or rehabilitated water connections in the targeted
Indicator 4
              neighborhoods.
Value                      0                   +15,000                             15,798
Date                 11/14/2008              02/28/2014                          12/31/2014
Comments      This indicator was 105% achieved.
              Number of additional new or rehabilitated sewer connections in the targeted
Indicator 5
              neighborhoods
Value                      0                   +30,000            19,000           19,716
Date                 11/14/2008              02/28/2014         02/28/2015       11/17/2014
              This indicator was 104% achieved. As commented for PDO indicator two, the
              scope of the sewerage works was reduced in 2013. This number represents just
Comments
              access to sewer connections, while actual connections are captured in the PDO
              indicator two.
Indicator 6   Percentage of beneficiaries in low-income settlements.
Value                      0                     50%                              73.09%
Date                 11/14/2008              02/28/2014                          12/31/2014
Comments      This indicator was 146% achieved.
              Number of connections in targeted neighborhoods with at least 16 hours of daily
Indicator 7
              service.
Value                      0                    40,000                             30,959
Date                 11/14/2008              02/28/2014                          12/31/2014
              This indicator was 77% achieved. This indicator was calculated using a
Comments      different methodology than the first results-level indicator and should have been
              adjusted during the restructuring.
Indicator 8   Total volume passing through micro-meters per semester (m3)
Value                25,529,440                                 29,819,380       37,454,588
Date                 09/01/2012                                 02/28/2015       12/31/2014
              This indicator was 126% achieved. This indicator was restructured from
              “increase in micro-metering percentage” to the above indicator to increase
Comments
              measurability given that not all installed micrometers were being read by
              ENACAL.
Indicator 9   Increase in percentage of tariff collection in targeted areas
Value                     44                      90                65              54.14
Date                  9/26/2011              02/28/2014         02/28/2015       12/31/2014
              This indicator was 80% achieved. Delays in awarding contracts and in
Comments
              finalizing the works limited the timeframe for ENACAL’s commercial team to

                                                                                             v
               implement the collection strategies. The baseline value was revised from 63 to 44
               during the Mid-Term Review.
               Number of illegal connections registered in participating settlements in the
Indicator 10
               targeted neighborhoods
Value                      0                   15,000                              26,339
Date                  11/14/2008             02/28/2014                          12/31/2014
               This indicator was 176% achieved. PRASMA strengthened the Department of
               Non-Revenue Water’s (DANF) capacity. As part of the Project the DANF
Comments
               alongside other Departments scanned Managua’s aqueducts to identify illegal
               connections and leaks.
               Advancements in the execution of the different components of PRASMA and its
Indicator 11
               impact on ENACAL’s Institutional Development Plan
Value                      0                    100%                                100%
Date                  11/14/2008             02/28/2014                          11/17/2014
               The indicator was 100% achieved. The indicator reflects the percent of
               disbursements since all PRASMA activities supported ENACAL’s Institutional
Comments
               Development Plan (e.g. extending coverage, reducing water losses and increasing
               ENACAL’s technical capacity)
Indicator 12   Timely presentation of progress reports
Value                      0                      4                                   4
Date                  11/14/2008             02/28/2014                          12/31/2014
               This indicator was 100% achieved. The PCU presented progress reports in a
Comments
               timely fashion throughout implementation.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
        Date ISR
No.                            DO                         IP                Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
 1      01/16/2009       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00
 2      04/07/2009       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00
 3      07/22/2009       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       2.00
 4      01/25/2010       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       2.01
 5      05/21/2010       Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory                2.98
 6      11/29/2010   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                2.58
 7      05/30/2011   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                3.76
 8      11/16/2011   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                9.51
 9      06/29/2012   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory              20.10
 10     12/23/2012   Moderately Satisfactory        Satisfactory                     25.39
 11     04/12/2013   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory              25.39
 12     11/27/2013   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory              32.11
 13     06/09/2014   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory              37.79
                          Moderately                 Moderately
 14     12/07/2014                                                                     39.00
                        Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
 15     02/27/2015   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                39.41


                                                                                               vi
H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO       IP      in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The restructuring included: (i) an
                                                     extension of the closing date
                                                     from February 28, 2014 to
                                                     February 28, 2015 to allow for
                                                     completion of key works
                                                     contracts, orderly closure of all
                                                     activities and disbursement of
                                                     additional funds that became
                                                     available due to exchange rate
                                                     fluctuations; (ii) the reallocation
                                                     of funds between disbursement
                                                     categories to account for
                                                     cancellation of some activities
 12/23/2013      No       MS      MS         34.83 and cost increases in others; (iii)
                                                     the addition of a new outcome
                                                     indicator and the adjustment of
                                                     the Project’s intermediate results
                                                     indicators to better reflect the
                                                     current scope of the Project; and
                                                     (iv) the cancelation of the
                                                     development of tariff studies and
                                                     appropriate payment
                                                     mechanisms for low-income
                                                     neighborhoods activity given
                                                     that these activities are being
                                                     carried out in parallel by another
                                                     donor.

                             Graph 1: Disbursement Table




                                                                                     vii
Section 1. Project Context, Development Objectives & Design Context

Context at Appraisal

1.      At the time of appraisal, Nicaragua was the second poorest country in Latin America.1 Of
the country’s 5.5 million inhabitants, 48 percent lived below the poverty line and 17 percent lived
in extreme poverty. Poverty was high even in urban areas where 31 percent of the population lived
below the poverty line and seven percent lived in extreme poverty. One of the reasons for the high
urban poverty rates was the steady flow of rural to urban migration. This was especially true in the
Greater Managua Region (GMR),2 the country’s urban, economic and industrial center, where 15.7
percent of the population lived in extreme poverty.3

2.       Access to basic services for the urban poor living in extreme poverty in Nicaragua was
limited: only 26.5 percent had access to piped water and 1.2 percent to in-house toilets. The
majority of this population utilized latrines (72.5 percent), but 26.3 percent did not have access to
sanitation services. Raw sewage running throughout the streets of informal housing developments
was not uncommon. The Nicaraguan Water and Sewerage Enterprise (ENACAL)4 was responsible
for provision of WSS services to most urban areas and was the primary provider in the GMR but
was struggling to extend reliable5 WSS service to the entire population.

3.       ENACAL in the GMR. Approximately 50 percent of ENACAL’s 410,000 registered users
resided in the GMR. In the 2005 census, 93 percent of Managua’s population reported having
potable water, yet ENACAL judged this number to be exaggerated and based on household
connections rather than actual access to water service. Many households received intermittent
service with some only receiving two hours of service a day. Although water supply was not
meeting demand, non-revenue water (NRW) losses accounted for approximately 55 percent of
water produced. Water consumption was also not closely measured; only 42 percent of connections
had functioning meters and ENACAL estimated that more than 60 percent of residents in low-
income neighborhoods had informal, or artisanal, connections to the system. To improve water
service in Managua, ENACAL, with the support of Japanese International Cooperation Agency
(JICA), developed a Water Supply Master Plan in 2005 that outlined the following four areas of
action: (i) rehabilitation of existing and development of new urban water sources; (ii) increase in
efficiency; (iii) reduction in losses; and (iv) coverage improvements and extensions in low-income
neighborhoods.

4.       Sanitation posed another significant challenge for ENACAL in the GMR. ENACAL
provided only 38 percent of the population with sewerage services and did not treat the collected
wastewater before discharging it into Lake Managua. The majority of the population in the GMR
relied on septic tanks or pit latrines, increasing the risk of contamination of water sources and
related health problems. To overcome these challenges, ENACAL developed a Sanitation Master
Plan in 1996 (revised in 2002) to construct primary collectors and wastewater treatment plants
(WWTP). At the time of Appraisal, ENACAL was overseeing the construction of a WWTP for
Managua and collection system in line with this Plan.



1
  Estimated per capita income was US$957 in 2006 (PAD).
2
   Greater Managua is defined as the Metropolitan area of Managua and adjacent municipalities.
3
  The Metropolitan Region generated 35.6 percent of the GDP and was home to approximately 1.8 million people (PAD).
4
  ENACAL is a decentralized public organism.
5
  The PAD defines reliable water as piped potable water with adequate pressure and continuity of at least 16 hours per day, 7 days per
week.

                                                                                                                                     1
5.      In addition to service provision challenges, ENACAL faced serious financial constraints.
At appraisal, only 70 percent of clients paid their water bills. ENACAL was operating at a US$1.7
million deficit per month, limiting its capacity to maintain the system, connect new users and
provide quality service. At the time of Appraisal, ENACAL was finalizing an Institutional
Development Plan in an effort to improve this dire situation and was working with the Inter-
American Development Bank (IADB) to strengthen its business and financial management.

6.       Rationale for Bank Assistance. The Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (MHCP) asked
the World Bank to lead donor involvement in the WSS sector and requested the implementation of
three new Bank-financed WSS projects. The MHCP also requested that the Bank reestablish a
roundtable on water to leverage support from other donors and coordinate the investments of the
many donors, which included the IADB, JICA, the Nordic Fund, the Spanish Fund for
Development Assistance (FAD), and the German Development Bank (KfW), already involved in
the sector. The Bank’s assistance was sought specifically on the Greater Managua Water and
Sanitation Project (PRASMA) given its wide range of experience in improving w ater utilities’
sustainability and in assisting water utilities extend coverage to poor areas. PRASMA marked the
re-initiation of the Bank’s engagement with ENACAL after several years of limited interaction.6

7.       Higher Level Objectives. PRASMA’s high-level objective was to contribute to the
improvement of the quality of life of the population living in the GMR by providing access to
reliable WSS services. The Project directly supported the 2008 to 2012 Country Partnership
Strategy’s (CPS) strategic objectives to improve infrastructure and sustainable development and to
improve social equity and opportunity through human capital development. In addition, PRASMA
supported the Bank’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Program’s pillar on institutional strengthening.
PRASMA also directly supported the Government of Nicaragua’s (GoN) National Development
Plan’s goal to increase the coverage and quality of infrastructure to support economic growth and
achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Although coverage gaps predominated in
rural areas, the significant migration of rural populations to the GMR made urban investments to
extend coverage key to achieving the MDGs. The National Development Plan detailed the GoN’s
strategy to increase the sustainability of the WSS sector through strengthening and modernizing
ENACAL.

Original Project Development Objective (PDO)

8.      The objective of the Project is to increase access by the population of the Greater Managua
region to reliable water and improved sanitations services.7

Revised PDO & Key Indicators

9.        The Project’s PDO was not revised during the life of the Project.

Main Beneficiaries

10.     PRASMA aimed to benefit 150,000 Nicaraguans in the GMR with reliable WSS services.
PRASMA also expected to benefit ENACAL through building its capacity to control NRW losses,
to collect tariffs and to provide systematic social support throughout interventions among other

6
  In parallel to the PRASMA Project, the GoN also requested that the Bank support a rural WSS project (the PRASNICA Project). By
working in parallel in the urban and rural WSS sectors, the Bank was the best-placed donor to support overall WSS sector
development in Nicaragua.
7
  PDO as it appears in the Financing Agreement.

                                                                                                                              2
measures. ENACAL’s efficiency gains were expected to improve the reliability of WSS provision
throughout the GMR.

11.     Given the fact that the fourth monitoring moment of Project benefits was carried out by the
implanting agency from October to December 2014 and tabulated in January 2015, right before
Project closure, in order to quantify the results of the intervention in terms of actual connections
and collection in the benefiting neighborhoods, no Beneficiary Survey was carried out as part of
this ICR process.

Original Components as per the Loan Agreement

12.      Component 1. Coverage Extension and Improvement of WSS. A. Increasing coverage of
WSS services in the Greater Managua region through the financing of primary, secondary and
tertiary water and/or sewer network rehabilitation investments or repairs of existing wastewater
treatment systems. B. Carrying out of technical and feasibility studies, social interventions and
provision of technical assistance in connection with such increased and improved WSS services.

13.      Component 2. Improvement of Water Supply and Efficiency in Selected Areas. A. Carrying
out of technical and diagnostic studies separate from those carried out under Part 1.B of the Project
to evaluate, inter alia, current WSS supply and demand, losses and unmet demand, and determine
technically and financially efficient combinations of additional sources and efficiency
improvements in the provision of WSS services. B. Carrying out of water supply and efficiency
improvements separate from those carried out under Part1.A of the Project, including, inter alia:
(i) rehabilitation and capacity extension for water sources; (ii) increased adduction and storage
capacity, including increases in wastewater collector capacity; (iii) rehabilitation and extension of
low-technology wastewater treatment systems; (iv) creation of district metering areas; (v)
optimization of energy consumption in pumping systems as well as conducting of leak reduction
campaigns; (vi) improvement of metering at the household level; (vii) updating of the Recipient’s
WSS user registry catastro de usuarios); and (viii) improvement of billing and collection practices
targeted to low-income households.

14.      Component 3. Institutional Strengthening; Project Management and Monitoring. A.
Carrying out of institutional strengthening activities, including inter alia: (i) provision of technical
assistance, equipment and services aimed at supporting the Recipient’s implementation of the
Institutional Development Plan; (ii) development of tariff studies and appropriate payment
mechanisms for low-income neighborhoods; and (iii) conducting of exchanges of experience with
other countries, training and consultancies to move towards a unified WSS policy. B. Project
Management and Monitoring. (i) Supporting ENACAL to implement, manage, monitor and
evaluate the Project through, inter alia: (i) the provision of technical assistance, household surveys,
the financing of incremental operating costs, the carrying out of training and study tours, and the
upgrading of the working environment; and (ii) carrying out audit services in accordance with the
Loan Agreement.

Revised Components

15.       The Project team carried out a level II restructuring in December 2013. In this restructuring,
Component 3, section (ii), “development of tariff studies and appropriate payment mechanisms for
low-income neighborhoods” was dropped given that another donor intended to carry out the
activity.



                                                                                                      3
Other significant changes

16.      Other significant changes in the restructuring included adjusting the results framework,
reallocating funds between activities (See Annex 1) and extending PRASMA’s closing date by one
year. A complete description of changes to the results framework is detailed in the Data Sheet, but
the most significant adjustment was the addition of a new outcome level indicator, ENACAL’s
total collection rate, to capture the impact of the commercial efficiency activities. In addition, the
scope of the sewerage connection indicators was reduced given the transfer of funds from sewerage
works to the Ciudad Sandino Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP), an activity that was not
anticipated at Appraisal but incorporated at a later stage to reflect ENACAL’s priorities, the
cancellation of works in nine communities (discussed in more detail in the Implementation Section)
and the understanding that connection to sewerage systems is a continuous process that involves
the community and takes place over a course of time (the original target was too ambitious by
assuming an almost perfect connection rate (4 out of 5 beneficiaries connecting)). PRASMA’s
closing date was extended by one year to permit the orderly completion of activities, especially
several major contracts that had works extending beyond the original closing date.

Section 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

17.      Soundness of Background Analysis. The Project team analyzed lessons learned from
similar urban WSS projects in the region and incorporated them in PRASMA’s design. For
example, PRASMA’s design (i) incorporated social accompaniment from the outset and throughout
the project cycle to increase community ownership of the works (based on experience in Honduras,
Brazil and Peru) using as much as possible existing social structures and local leadership; and (ii)
included hygiene education with WSS investments to reap the full health benefits of improved
service. The design team also carefully analyzed other donors’ investments as well as ENACAL’s
Water Supply Master Plan, Sanitation Master Plan and Institutional Development Plan to ensure
an organized approach to improving coverage, reliability and efficiency. A Policy and Human
Resources Development Fund (PHRD) grant financed by the Government of Japan supported
designs for the first 64 neighborhoods and three macro-sectors during preparation, increasing
Project readiness.

18.      Assessment of Project Design. The PDO, to extend reliable water and improved sanitation
services, captured the cumulative impact of both the infrastructure investments and efficiency-
focused activities. The infrastructure investments provided the platform for reliable service, and
the efficiency activities promoted the capacity of ENACAL to provide service reliably. The PDO
was easily measureable given PRASMA’s clear definition of reliable water service as piped potable
water with adequate pressure and continuity of at least 16 hours a day, seven days a week.

19.      PRASMA concentrated on infrastructure investments and efficiency improvements. The
efficiency improvement activities, which were innovative for ENACAL at the time of Appraisal,
focused on building ENACAL’s sustainability and capacity to provide reliable service. The Bank
had significant value to add on these innovative activities given its experience with projects with
similar elements, such as the Uruguay Adaptable Program Loan for the OSE Modernization and
Systems Rehabilitation Project (P101432). The components were clear and ENACAL, with the
support of a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), had the capacity to carry out the activities. The
activities were also strongly aligned with company goals, increasing institutional commitment to
their successful implementation. For example, the infrastructure investments were part of
ENACAL’s Master Plan for improving coverage and service throughout the GMR. In addition, the

                                                                                                    4
more innovative, efficiency-focused activities directly supported ENACAL’s Institutional
Development Plan. Another positive design aspect was the inclusion of innovative infrastructure
approaches (such as condominial sewerage systems) and social and environmental accompaniment
in all works contracts, a practice that ENACAL did not systematically apply prior to the Project.

20.      Implementation Arrangements. The Project had very clear implementation arrangements:
ENACAL acted as the sole implementing agency. ENACAL requested that a PCU within its Project
and Investment Division lead overall coordination and engineering matters. In order to avoid the
isolation of the PCU and the Project from ENACAL’s operating structure, the implementation
arrangements included ENACAL’s departments to the degree possible. For example, the
environmental, social, financial management (FM) and procurement personnel supported the PCU
from their respective departments. 8 In addition, the commercial management and NRW
departments managed implementation of their respective activities. A high level committee with
division leaders was formed to facilitate coordination among the various departments.

21.     ENACAL did not have recent experience implementing Bank Projects, but its Project and
Investment Division had significant practice implementing other multilateral and bilateral projects.
Nevertheless, after assessing the capacity of the environmental, social, FM and procurement
personnel, World Bank specialists identified the need to strengthen staff capacity and the working
environment in most departments. As a result, the Project’s design incorporated social and
environmental capacity building exercises as well as office space improvements. In addition, given
that ENACAL staff had many responsibilities beyond PRASMA, the design anticipated contracting
additional staff to support implementation.

22.      Risk Assessment. The Project team conducted a detailed assessment of potential risks and
proposed clear mitigation measures. The team rated the overall implementation risk as Substantial
given ENACAL’s initial reluctance to engage with the Bank on non-infrastructure activities, the
limited availability of water to meet demand in Project areas, as well as the size of the Project and
the need to carry out procurement processes in a timely measure among other issues. The
Substantial risk rating also reflected the design risk of moving beyond straightforward
infrastructure interventions to more complex efficiency improvement activities. In particular,
ENACAL’s financial vulnerability was flagged clearly during preparation. Mitigation measures
included study tours and workshops to highlight innovative methods for improving operations.
Activities to increase water availability and operational sustainability, as well as significant
supervision support. Although the majority of mitigation methods proved effective, several risks
materialized. For instance, the mitigation measures to facilitate timely procurement processes,
which included annual audits of procurement processes as well as the publication of processes on
the GoN’s procurement website, were not enough to enable efficient procurement. PRASMA’s
yearlong extension was largely a result of slow procurement. The commitment from ENACAL’s
management and from the Ministry of Finance in improving ENACAL’s financial situation was
indicated as a mitigation measure for the substantial risk involved in this. Although an active policy
dialogue around ENACAL’s financial situation took place throughout the Project implementation,
they were not enough to turn around the Utility’s financial performance (however, the project was
fully implemented regardless).

23.   Adequacy of government commitment. The GoN was highly committed to strengthening
the WSS sector and requested the Bank’s assistance to lead donor involvement in the sector.
PRASMA was the largest of three projects the GoN had requested that the Bank develop to improve

8
 As the Project evolved, PRASMA supported the hiring of FM and procurement specialists exclusively for the PCU given the
workload of the departments and the limited time they had to devote to the Project.

                                                                                                                           5
WSS services throughout the country. In addition to a high level of government commitment,
ENACAL’s executive director, senior management and board members participated in the design
and development of the Project and expressed commitment to ENACAL’s strengthening and to the
successful implementation of the Project.

Implementation

24.     The Project achieved full disbursement 9 and finished with a Moderately Satisfactory
implementation rating. The Project surpassed three of its four outcome-level indicators and
achieved 10 of its 12 intermediate indicators. Project implementation benefited from a strong
alignment between company and Project goals, effective social accompaniment, as well as the
introduction of international expertise. Limited high-level commitment to ENACAL’s financial
sustainability, a weak approach to disconnecting artisanal networks as well as procurement issues
presented minor implementation shortcomings.

25.     The Project was also flagged as a problem project for a short period of time given its
Moderately Unsatisfactory “Progress Towards Achievement of PDO” and “Overall
Implementation Progress” ratings from December 2014 until February 2015. This temporary
downgrading reflected the probability of key actions, including the un-blocking of a collector that
transported raw sewage to Ciudad Sandino’s new WWTP, the conclusion of the macro sector work
and the completion of the condominial sewerage networks in Bello Amanecer, would not be
completed before the Project’s closing date. ENACAL’s management team and the Bank designed
an ambitious action plan to improve the rating during the last months of implementation.
ENACAL’s leadership, displaying a high level of commitment to the successful implementation of
PRASMA, utilized US$500,000 of their investment budget to carry out final activities and
appointed a senior manager to oversee progress. This effort alongside significant commitment from
the PCU and technical staff resulted in the timely and effective resolution of the identified issues
and an upgrading of the overall Implementation Rating to Moderately Satisfactory.

26.      Strong Alignment. Project implementation benefited immensely from the strong alignment
between ENACAL’s growth plans and Project activities. As described in the Project Design
Section, PRASMA directly supported ENACAL’s Master Water Supply, Master Sanitation and
Institutional Development Plans. The Project’s direct support of ENACAL’s larger vision for the
WSS sector resulted in a high level of ownership of the Project. When funds ran short towards the
end of the Project, ENACAL invested over US$500,000 of its own funds to ensure the Project’s
successful completion. In addition, ENACAL’s Plans provided a structure that organized the
investments of the many donors in the sector, minimizing overlap and maximizing the impact of
each individual project.

27.      Social Accompaniment and Community Engagement. High quality social accompaniment
laid the ground work for successfully carrying out works in low-income, marginalized communities
and played a key role in generating beneficiary satisfaction, motivating connection to the sewerage
systems, and promoting long-term sustainability of the works. PRASMA introduced a new social
management scheme, which required contractors to include experienced social specialists among
their staff. PRASMA’s social team was responsible for the development of the social methodology
the contractors employed and the supervision of the contractor’s social management work.
PRASMA’s social staff accompanied communities from the pre-investment to the post-
construction phase and worked directly with Community Monitoring Committees (created through

9
  Although PRASMA achieved full disbursement, ENACAL returned approximately US$2 million of disbursed funds due to mis-
procurement.

                                                                                                                          6
the Project) and already existing Family, Health and Life Committees ( Poder Ciudadano).
Community members were consulted on the design and installation of the works and received
capacity building on hygiene practices, water conservation, care for their WSS connections and
payment for WSS service among other themes. PRASMA’s social staff also built the capacity of
ENACAL’s Department of Community Management staff to provide assistance to households
through developing a monitoring plan, which included four visits per household, to promote
hygiene, connection to the sewerage systems, proper operation of the water meter, how to care for
the water system, and proper use of toilets. The Community Management team’s personalized
approach was key to motivating households to connect to the sewerage system.

28.      International expertise. The Bank engaged high-level international experts to introduce
and develop new approaches to WSS management, such as condominial sewerage, NRW reduction
methods as well as tariff collection strategies, at ENACAL. Although ENACAL was initially more
interested in traditional infrastructure activities, the positive interaction between the experts and the
ENACAL team gradually opened the doors to the successful implementation of the Project’s
innovative activities. During the ICR Fact-Finding mission, ENACAL staff highlighted the value
of the Bank’s convening power. For example, ENACAL was hesitant to construct condominial
sewerage systems prior to PRASMA, but close work with a World Bank international expert
motivated ENACAL to engage in a pilot and to subsequently extend condominial sewerage systems
throughout the country. Similarly, the social, NRW reduction and commercial management
activities were developed in close coordination with World Bank international experts who carried
out highly personalized capacity building sessions and helped ENACAL develop tailored
implementation strategies. This personalized approach was key to moving the softer activities
forward successfully.

29.      Commitment to ENACAL’s financial sustainability. The inclusion of the cost-recovery
indicator at the PDO-level played a key role in generating consistent, high-level policy dialogue
with the GoN on methods to improve ENACAL’s financial performance. At the request of the
MHCP, the Bank developed policy notes for the sector and developed a modernization plan for
ENACAL with the goal of reaching full cost recovery. The measures required for full cost recovery
(raising tariffs, controlling energy costs and revising ENACAL’s staffing policies), as expected at
appraisal, were not taken by the GoN. Rather than taking such measures, the GoN chose to promote
efficiency improvements within ENACAL and to continue subsidizing ENACAL’s operations10.
This approach limited ENACAL’s capacity to successfully achieve its cost recovery goal during
the life of the Project.

30.     Artisanal Connections. The WSS works did not include a uniform approach to cutting
households’ artisanal connections to the network, generating difficulty in formalizing new
connections. In some cases, the contractors were responsible for cutting the connections and in
other cases ENACAL was responsible. Oftentimes, however, the connections were not cut during
construction, creating more work at later stages of the Project as the pipes that had to be cut had
already been covered. In other cases, the artisanal connections were cut in such a manner that it
was very easy for beneficiaries to reconnect to the network informally. To compensate, ENACAL
allocated their own personnel to remove the artisanal connections and ensure proper connection to
the formal network.


10
   Decisions on ENACAL’s operational efficiency rely on the Company’s Directive Board, as per its legal framework. In the case of a
financial deficit, the Board requests to MHCP the corresponding subsidy. MHCP reviews and approves the request according to its
budget availability. In some cases, the supplementary funding is submitted to the National Assembly as budgetary reform.



                                                                                                                                 7
31.     Procurement Issues. Procurement difficulties were the main reason for the extension of the
Project’s closing date by one year. ENACAL’s capacity to prepare technical specifications and
bidding documents, conduct bid evaluations and adhere to the bidding documents and the
Procurement Guidelines was limited, jeopardizing procurement processes. Most significantly, the
Project experienced one case of mis-procurement that resulted in the cancellation of WSS works in
nine neighborhoods and the return of US$2 million of financing to the World Bank11. This case
impacted the number of sanitation beneficiaries, but did not impact the smooth project
implementation. In addition to this case of mis-procurement, ENACAL had to re-launch a key bid
for works in Bello Amanecer given its lack of response to an anonymous fraud claim on the first
bid. Despite these difficulties, ENACAL’s procurement specialists, with close support from the
Bank supervision team, managed to procure the required works by the Project’s revised closing
date. See the Fiduciary Compliance Section for more on procurement.

32.      Mid-Term Review (MTR) and Restructuring. The Bank team performed a comprehensive
assessment of PRASMA’s progress during the MTR in September 2011 and highlighted areas that
could be improved during the second half of implementation. The MTR updated the economic and
financial assessments done at Appraisal and provided the GoN with new financial and operational
efficiency projections. The MTR also checked accuracy of baseline figures and other indicators’
methodologies. The MTR recommended a minor restructuring to facilitate implementation
(adjusting disbursement categories and indicator targets) to reflect the addition of the Ciudad
Sandino WWTP and the cancellation of the funds for the nine neighborhoods. The restructuring
took place approximately two years after the MTR given ENACAL’s preference to process the
changes after Nicaragua’s presidential elections (November 2011) and subsequent internal delays
in sending a formal request. Nevertheless, the delays in process the restructuring did not affect the
Project’s implementation pace, since the changes were not substantial. By the time the restructuring
was processed in 2013, the Project team had greater perspective on implementation progress,
enabling the inclusion of additional adjustments, such as the year-long extension and inclusion of
the total collections PDO-level indicator, to guide the Project to its PDO.

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)

33.      M&E Design. In general, the results framework provided a concrete method to assess the
progress of the Project towards achieving its PDO. The intermediate indicators were
straightforward and reflected the scope of the Project’s activities, and the results level indicators
captured the cumulative impact of the Project’s investments. One results-level indicator, the
company’s cost-recovery ratio, reflected the impact of external factors, such as energy prices, as
well as Project activities. At the time of design, ENACAL’s financial sustainability was a top
priority for ENACAL, and ENACAL had a clear roadmap, which included cost control measures,
revenue increases and tariff increases, to achieve the cost-recovery ratio target. The Project directly
supported activities to control costs and increase revenue, and the GoN had expressed its
commitment to increasing tariffs at preparation. Raising the indicator to the PDO-Level, provided
a means for the Bank to align itself with ENACAL’s priorities, highlight the importance of
achieving sustainability, and engage in high-level dialogue on financial sustainability.
Nevertheless, the inclusion of this indicator was ambitious and risky given both the tremendous
challenge of achieving full cost recovery in five years (ENACAL had a cost recovery ratio of .81
at Appraisal) as well as the indicator’s reliance on political decisions and vulnerability to external
factors. The PAD’s risk framework acknowledges this risk stating that overall utility performance
was closely tied to the continued commitment of ENACAL’s leadership and high-level government

11 The mis-procurement case refers to the incorrect disqualification of the lowest bidder and contract awarding to the second
lowest without solid technical grounds.

                                                                                                                           8
officials to improve ENACAL’s financial sustainability. During the restructuring, a new PDO-level
indicator on total collections was added to capture the impact PRASMA’s revenue increasing
activities had on improving ENACAL’s financial sustainability. T he design foresaw using
ENACAL’s established M&E system for data collection and development of progress reports.

34.      M&E Implementation. In actuality, the PCU was responsible for collecting, organizing and
validating information from the various departments involved in the implementation of PRASMA.
The PCU had a staff member assigned solely to M&E. The Community Management Department
in coordination with the PCU’s social specialist played an important role in monitoring and
collecting information on indicators at the community level. The specialists and community team
applied a household survey that included a range of indicators on households’ WSS service ,
sewerage connections and hygiene practices. The Project also supported the development of a
company scorecard that included indicators to track the efficiency and overall performance of
ENACAL. The Commercial Management Department updated the scorecard on a regular basis
during implementation.

35.      M&E Utilization. Throughout Project implementation, ENACAL’s leaders and the Bank
team utilized the indicators to guide conversations on project performance as well as ENACAL’s
overall performance. In particular, the cost recovery outcome indicator played a key role in
promoting high-level policy dialogue on the financial sustainability of the urban WSS sector. Even
though it was clear by the MTR that the cost-recovery indicator would not be met, the team decided
to maintain it given its importance to the long-term health of the sector and its role in promoting
high-level discussions. The indicators related to tariff collection (both at Managua level and at
“target areas”) were also particular relevant to push forward and to extend beyond the Project the
good actions developed. For instance, ENACAL put together a task force formed by staff from its
commercial, operations and community management departments to improve collection rates in
the 27 neighborhoods and improve the “percentage of tariff collection in targeted areas” indicator
before the Project’s close. The effectiveness of this task force was so positive that ENACAL has
continued carrying out tariff collection with this multi-department task force post-Project. The good
results shown at the PDO-indicator of Collection also motivated ENACAL to extend the collection
campaign throughout the regional units of the Utility.

Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

36.      Social and Environmental Safeguards. The Project finished with a Satisfactory rating for
compliance with social (Involuntary Resettlement (O.P. 4.12)) and environmental (an
Environmental Assessment Category B (O.P. 4.01), Natural Habitats (O.P. 4.04), Physical Cultural
Resources (O.P. 4.11)) safeguards. Bank supervision teams commended ENACAL for its high
quality social and environmental management throughout implementation. All the works contracts
contained environmental and social accompaniment in line with and beyond the requisites of the
safeguard policies. The majority of construction firms in Nicaragua, however, had limited
experience providing social and environmental support. To ensure that the accompaniment was not
just a “check mark” in the contract, the social and environmental teams of PRASMA carried out
systematic quality control on-site and provided technical assistance to contractors to ensure
satisfactory social management.

37.     In regard to the Involuntary Resettlement Safeguard, the PCU, in coordination with the
Municipality of Managua, successfully managed the resettlement of 31 families. The Bank
conducted an ex-post review and found the resettled families to be highly satisfied with their new
homes. To ensure compliance with the environmental safeguards, ENACAL’s environmental team
regularly supervised works. With the addition of the Ciudad Sandino WWTP, the environmental

                                                                                                   9
team successfully updated the Environmental Impact Assessment in compliance with Bank
policies, holding public consultations and sharing documents publically among other actions.
Given the success and positive impact of the accompaniment, ENACAL is now applying the social
and environmental accompaniment models to all works contracts irrespective of financing.

38.      Financial Management. PRASMA closed with a Moderately Satisfactory FM rating.
Moderate FM shortcomings persisted throughout implementation but did not prevent the timely
and reliable provision of information required to manage and monitor the implementation of the
Project. Shortcomings included internal control weaknesses that were amplified by ENACAL’s
reliance on excel spreadsheets to manage accounts. The other issue related at the end of the Project
when ENACAL identified and reported an unexpected financial deficit in funds of around
US$500,000. The deficit resulted from miscalculations in the exchange rate and an increase in
works cost. ENACAL provided the funding to cover this deficit, resolving this issue.

39.     Procurement. Although, as described in the Implementation Section, PRASMA faced
many procurement challenges that resulted in delays and fund cancellations, PRASMA closed with
a Moderately Satisfactory procurement rating. ENACAL, albeit with difficult and significant
supervision support, carried out almost all12 PRASMA’s processes and contracts according to the
Bank's Guidelines.

Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase

40.     The GoN and ENACAL have demonstrated their commitment to improving ENACAL’s
operational and commercial efficiency post-PRASMA. At the request of the GoN, the Bank is
helping ENACAL develop a Master Plan for Operational Efficiency in Managua through a
technical assistance (TA) grant financed by the Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
(ESMAP, P11092). The Plan focuses on NRW reduction and energy efficiency maximization.
ENACAL decided to focus on efficiency improvements to improve its financial sustainability and
cost recovery in the short to mid-term given the GoN’s cautiousness to take other types of measures
such as tariff increases.

41.      In addition, the new Program for Humane Water and Sanitation (PISASH), which focuses
on building the capacity of regional offices and improving infrastructure in 19 cities, incorporates
a number of the good practices developed through PRASMA. Specifically, the PISASH team is
planning to build condominial sewerage systems, extend NRW activities and incorporate social and
environmental accompaniment throughout the project cycle. Illustrating the importance of the
experience of PRASMA to PISASH, most of PRASMA’s staff have been hired to work on
PISASH. Despite PRASMA’s positive results and ENACAL’s continuation of activities developed
under the Project, in the short term, there is no plan for a follow-up Bank project given ENACAL’s
access to significant financing through the PISASH program. 13 Nevertheless, the Bank will
continue supporting ENACAL and the good practices developed in PRASMA through TA
activities such as the Master Plan mentioned above.

Section 3. Assessment of Outcomes

PRASMA’s PDO was to increase access to reliable WSS services to the population of the
GMR.

12
   The exception is the mis-procurement case.
13
   The PISASH Program is financed by a pool of international donors, including the Spanish cooperation, the Central American Bank
for Economic Integration and the European Union, and has over 300 million dollars in funds for investments over the next 15 years.

                                                                                                                               10
Relevance of Objectives
Rating: High

42.     The objective of increasing access to reliable WSS services is still highly relevant to
ENACAL, the GoN and the World Bank. ENACAL’s strategic objectives for 2013 to 2017 include
reducing the levels of NRW in Managua and throughout the country, improving the financial
sustainability of the company, and extending WSS services to marginalized populations. The
GoN’s National Plan for Human Development for 2012 to 2016 also highlights the importance of
increasing WSS access. The Nicaragua CPS for 2013 to 2017 includes a pillar on “pro-poor
investment in delivery of basic services.” The Project also directly supported the World Bank’s
twin goals to end extreme poverty and promote shared prosperity for the bottom 40 percent given
the Project’s focus on improving the quality of life of the GMR’s poorest populations.

Relevance of Design
Rating: High

43.      The high relevance of PRASMA’s design is illustrated through ENACAL’s adoption and
replication of key methodologies. Aspects of the Project’s design have informed the new multi -
donor PISASH, which has a budget of approximately US$327 million and an implementation
timeline through 2030. Specifically, PISASH is contemplating: (i) utilizing the Project’s social and
environmental accompaniment model and related communications material; (ii) extending the
NRW methodology developed through PRASMA to 19 regional cities; and (iii) utilizing
condominial sewerage systems. Apart from the high relevance of design for PISASH, ENACAL is
continuing to implement the commercial tariff collection strategy on its own and is working through
the TA to further build ENACAL’s capacity to reduce NRW. Overall, ENACAL’s successful
implementation of PRASMA, a Project that had a Substantial risk rating at design, demonstrates
both the adequacy of the design and the relevance of the design for future projects with similarly
ambitious scopes.

Achievement of PDOs
Efficacy
Rating: Substantial

44.     PRASMA made Substantial progress towards achieving its objective to extend reliable
water and improved sanitation service to the population of the GMR. The Project extended reliable
water service to 161,896 beneficiaries and improved sanitation solutions to 62,295 beneficiaries,
exceeding Project targets. As Table 1 indicates, the Project achieved three of its four PDO-Level
indicators.

Table 1. Achievement of PDO-Level Indicators
 Indicator                                   Target                Result
 Beneficiaries with access to                150,000               161,896
 reliable water supply service
 Beneficiaries with access to                54,830                62,295
 improved sanitation service
 Cost recovery ratio                         1                     0.64
 Total collection amount                     750,000,000           849,317,748

45.         Factors outside PRASMA’s scope and ENACAL’s control, such as energy prices14 and

14
     42.3% of ENACAL’s national operating costs in 2011.

                                                                                                 11
tariff levels, thwarted the Project’s achievement of the cost recovery ratio. During the course of
implementation, energy prices increased 57 percent and ENACAL’s energy consumption increased
by 35 percent. At the same time, the GoN did not increase tariff levels. As a result, the positive
impact of PRASMA’s efficiency and commercial management activities on the cost recovery ratio
were not enough to impact this indicator (for a detailed analysis of the cost-recovery indicator, see
the Efficiency Section). Recognizing the weakness of this indicator15 to capture PRASMA’s cost-
recovery achievements, the team added the “total collection amount” indicator during the
December 2013 restructuring. PRASMA surpassed this indicator by 13 percent.

46.     In addition to achieving the majority of the indicators, PRASMA directly supported
ENACAL’s achievement of its Institutional Development Plan’s Strategic Objectives, which
included increasing water and sanitation coverage, providing at least 16 hours of water service per
day, achieving more equitable service across social classes, as well as ensuring that the quality of
treated wastewater met national environmental norms. PRASMA’s investments in infrastructure
and efficiency improvements fueled these achievements.

47.      Access to reliable infrastructure. PRASMA’s WSS access-focused infrastructure
investments were concentrated on the poorest neighborhoods in the GMR. Prior to the Project, over
75 percent of the households in the targeted communities had two or more unmet basic needs (See
paragraph 62 for more detail). 16 The infrastructure investments contributed to the satisfaction of
basic human needs and created a platform for reliable WSS service. Before the Project, many of
the PRASMA communities had artisanal connections they had constructed without proper
supervision, resulting in under-design and poor service quality. On average, community members
only had 13.6 hours of water service per day. After the intervention, beneficiaries received on
average 22.08 hours of service a day. During the ICR field visits, community members commented:
“Before we woke up at one in the morning to perhaps collect a bottle of water; there was very little
water, sometimes it came out good, sometimes bad.” Reporting on post-Project conditions, a
community member said, “Thank God we have water 24 hours a day.” In regard to sanitation, most
of the communities did not have networks for wastewater evacuation prior to the Project, and the
streets were often flooded with wastewater. During the field visits of the ICR team, community
members commented, “we had roads we called “black rivers” we didn’t know where to dispose of
the wastewater so we released it on the streets - the smell was horrible and permanent, day and
night.” The strong social accompaniment as well as the dire situation pre-project played key roles
in motivating household connections to the new sewerage system. At the time of the ICR,
approximately 73 percent of families in the 27 neighborhoods and 30 percent of the families in
Bello Amanecer had connected to the systems. Social specialist found that the principal limiting
factor for household connections was the cost of the connection. In Bello Amanecer, the works
were completed shortly before the Project’s close, and the connection rate is expected to increase
in the near future.
48.      Another major result on the sanitation front was ENACAL’s adoption of the condominial
sewerage approach. PRASMA financed the first condominial neighborhood in Nicaragua and
paved the ground for a scaling up of this low-cost yet efficient approach. The successful
implementation of the condominial works led to a change in country norms to include this
approach. As one ENACAL staff member commented, “If it is a new system we’ll use condominial
– it provides an opportunity to extend coverage at a lower cost.”

15
   Despite the weakness of this indicator to capture PRASMA’s direct impact, the Bank team decided to keep this indicator in the
results framework of the Project due to its relevance for policy dialogue with the Ministry of Finance.
16
   The study was conducted using baseline data collected in the neighborhoods in 2011 and based on the following five types of
unmet basic needs: (i) overcrowding; (ii) inadequate housing; (iii) insufficient water and sanitation services; (iv) low education; and
(v) economic dependence. ENACAL, “Caracterización de la Pobreza en el Barrio Bello Amanecer” y Caracterización de la Pobreza en
los 27 Barrios,” 2014.

                                                                                                                                   12
49.      Finally, PRASMA, at the request of ENACAL, financed the expansion and rehabilitation
of the Ciudad Sandino WWTP. The Ciudad Sandino WWTP had design and operational problems
(non-working pumps and other technical problems) that resulted in the plant depositing
approximately 54 percent of its incoming flows in Lake Managua without any treatment. In addition
to operational issues, the plant had already reached its maximum treatment capacity (90 l/s), which
was problematic given that it was positioned in one of the fastest growing municipalities of the
GMR. ENACAL foresaw connecting the PRASMA-financed, Bello Amanecer sewerage network
to this WWTP. ENACAL considered the expansion of the Ciudad Sandino WWTP and the
rehabilitation of its original module a priority given its goal to eliminate untreated sewerage
discharges to Lake Managua. Nicaragua’s environmental legislation (Decree 33-95) considered any
discharge of untreated wastewater illegal. In addition, the expansion of the Ciudad Sandino WWTP
was also part of the Sewerage Master Plan for Managua.17

50.        PRASMA’s financing increased the capacity of the plant to 180 l/s and rehabilitated and
added a new upflow anaerobic sludge blanket reactor. By the Project’s close, the WWTP was
treating 170 l/s and supporting the elimination of approximately 5,000 kg of organic matter and
suspended solids discharges per day to Lake Managua (a depuration of 72 percent and 86 percent
respectively in relation to the biochemical oxygen demand and suspended solids concentration of
the WWTP influent). Even though the flow treated by the Ciudad Sandino WWTP represents a
relatively small proportion of the total sewage flow produced in Managua (estimated around 2,000
l/s), its elimination is an essential component to ensure the restoration and preservation of Lake
Managua and it is fundamental for the environmental sanitation of the Ciudad Sandino’s
neighborhoods.

51.      Efficient and Reliable Service. In addition to installing infrastructure, the Project increased
the reliability of ENACAL’s service through improving its efficiency. Specifically, PRASMA
supported NRW management and commercial efficiency activities. In parallel, the IADB supported
the implementation of the energy efficiency activities at ENACAL.18

52.      Efficiency Enhancements and Non-Revenue Water Reduction. Over the course of the
Project, the percentage of households with water 16 or more hours a day went from 53.9 percent in
2010 to 71 percent in 2015. In addition to reflecting the WSS infrastructure improvements
described above, this increase in reliability reflected PRASMA’s investments in NRW institutional
strengthening activities, such as leak detection and repairs, capacity building on water balance
calculations, the promotion of micro and macro-metering, as well as the establishment of four
macro-sectors that covered 145 neighborhoods and benefited 169,364 people.

53.      PRASMA increased the profile of NRW in ENACAL and strengthened ENACAL’s
technical capacity to manage and reduce NRW. Specifically, PRASMA motivated the
establishment, staffing and training of ENACAL’s Directorate on NRW, the DANF. Prior to
PRASMA, ENACAL did not have a team devoted to NRW issues, limiting the company’s ability
to employ a cohesive approach to reducing NRW. For example, before the Project, ENACAL had
64 micro-sectors, but they were not effective given that ENACAL interconnected the sectors to
respond to short-term problems. One staff member recounted, “our instinct prior to PRASMA was
to open the valve if someone didn’t have access to water.” The DANF was placed in charge of



17 See pages 65-66, 137, 183 and 197 in the “Proyecto de Actualización del Plan Maestro de Alcantarillado Sanitario de Managua,”
October 1996.
18
   The Bank originally foresaw carrying out several energy efficiency activities. Close coordination between the IADB and the Bank
and the desire to synchronize the Projects, however, led to the prioritization of energy efficiency by the IADB and NRW by the Bank.

                                                                                                                                 13
determining whether changes to the sectors could be made but, at the time of the ICR, was still
establishing its capacity to exercise this power.

54.      Given that effective NRW management requires coordination across commercial, technical
and operational departments, PRASMA included training throughout the company to increase
awareness and understanding of NRW. DANF staff noted that prior to training, many staff saw
NRW as an operational issue, after training staff began to view NRW as a physical and commercial
issue. In addition to raising the profile of NRW at ENACAL, PRASMA financed expert
international consultants to assist the DANF team develop a methodology for constituting and
operating macro and micro district metered areas sectors, which are key for monitoring and
managing NRW as well as for controlling pressure and identifying leaks. The consultants helped
the DANF oversee the establishment of the four macro-sectors and 30 micro-sectors financed by
PRASMA.

55.     To generate the benefits from the establishment of macro and micro sectors, the training
also focused on increasing the DANF’s capacity to calculate and monitor water balances, to monitor
pressure levels and to identify and coordinate the repair of leaks. With the support of PRASMA,
the DANF analyzed water pressure levels in 71 micro-sectors and identified 23 sectors with
unnecessarily high levels of pressure; lowering the pressure in these sectors resulted in a savings
of 1,300 gallons of water per minute. During the Project, the DANF scanned Managua’s aqueduct
and identified 3,725 visible leaks and 320 non-visible leaks.

56.     The cumulative impact of the establishment of the district metered areas and the improved
capacity to reduce NRW resulted in an increase in available water supply and an increase in
ENACAL’s capacity to provide reliable service.

57.     Commercial Efficiency. PRASMA’s commercial efficiency activities were key to reversing
an upward trend in delinquent payments, improving ENACAL’s financial sustainability and
consequent ability to provide reliable WSS services. In 2012, prior to the implementation of
PRASMA’s tariff collection strategy, collection levels had decreased by 5.3 percent from 2011
levels. After implementation of the collection strategy, ENACAL achieved collection level
increases of 13.2 percent in 2013 and 12.6 percent in 2014.19 Overall tariff collection in dollar terms
went from US$599.8 in 2008 to US$849 million in 2014. These improvements are significant
especially given that policy considerations at the national level limited ENACAL’s capacity to
aggressively implement cost recovery actions, such as tariffs reforms and energy production costs’
regulation.

58.      PRASMA helped ENACAL achieve these results through supporting the development and
implementation of a tariff collection strategy that led to the re-organization of the Commercial
Management Department and a shift in its way of doing business. The Bank financed an
international consultant who worked with ENACAL’s commercial team to develop a tailored
collection strategy that reflected the on-ground situation in Managua. In parallel, PRASMA
financed resources, including commercial software, vehicles, and workstations, to carry out the
strategy. The tariff collection strategy focused on establishing a new methodology for the payment
of debt. With the support of the expert, ENACAL’s Commercial Management Department
analyzed debt levels and segmented clients depending on their length of delinquency. The
commercial team then developed a personalized approach offering households the possibility of
paying in quotas and reductions in debt depending on the household’s financial situation. The
philosophy shifted from demanding full recovery of debt to focusing on recovering a portion of the

19
     Carlos Valdes, Final Report on ENACAL Commercial Management Consultancy, March 2015.

                                                                                                    14
debt. For example, with a household that was five years behind in payment, ENACAL would,
depending on the individual situation, perhaps settle for two years of payment. The commercial
team, in coordination with ENACAL’s Community Management Department, established
agreements with individual households that outlined the terms of repayment with ENACAL. Staff
from the Community Management Department trained community members, usually mothers, to
help establish these agreements. In the 27 communities alone, the amount of money collected
increased by 117 percent from December 2012 to February 2015.

59.     In addition to supporting the development of a new tariff collection strategy, PRASMA
supported the application of fairer tariffs through the installation of approximately 192,000
micrometers in the GMR. In the 27 communities, the number of households with meters increased
by 235 percent from 2010 to 2015, and average consumption decreased by 10.5 percent during this
period. Although the move to increase volume-based billing was positive and had a direct impact
on improving more efficient use of water as well as collection rates, this activity is still a work-in-
progress and has presented some moderate shortcomings. By the Project’s close, approximately 86
percent of ENACAL’s clients had micrometers, yet ENACAL was only basing 56 percent of its
bills on meter readings, indicating a need to increase volumetric-based billing. In addition, the
meter installation was not focused exclusively on those clients that did not have meters or clients
whose meters had demonstrated technical issues. ENACAL is aware of these issues and has
expressed its commitment to improve meter reading and targeting.

Efficiency
Rating: Substantial

60.     As at Appraisal, the economic and financial evaluation was conducted using a cost benefit
analysis. The analysis evaluated the impact the interventions had on the following beneficiaries:
(a) for WSS interventions, the residents of 27 neighborhoods; and (b) for water efficiency
interventions, the residents of the GMR outside the 27 neighborhoods.

61.     At Appraisal the cost benefit analysis was conducted using avoided costs, hedonic prices,
and willingness to pay. For this evaluation, the avoided cost approach was used to measure the
benefits, and the results were compared against the willingness to pay numbers obtained when
preparing the Project. The hedonic price method was not applied in this evaluation due to the lack
of information on the increase of properties’ leases generated from the implemented works. Actual
benefits and actual costs were included in this evaluation and were transformed to 2008 prices in
order to compare them against the ones projected at Appraisal. As assumed during the evaluation
at Appraisal, the evaluation used a discount rate of 12 percent and projected a lifetime of 30 years.

62.      The Project positively impacted the socio-economic conditions of beneficiaries’
households. Before the intervention, the households’ WSS systems and wastewater treatment were
in poor condition and households had to pay high costs to cope with the situation. Results of the
distributive analysis show that the biggest winners were GMR residents whose benefits from having
proper WSS connections reached US$43 million. (42% of it goes to the 27 neighborhoods). Other
winners were suppliers and laborers who had returns of US$0.2 million. The fiscal impact of the
Project, which corresponds to the net benefit of the GoN, was negative as the investment was fully
subsidized by the GoN, and the US$7 million of taxes received from the Project did not compensate
for the subsidy; which resulted in net loss of US$29 million for the GoN.

63.      The poverty assessment conducted for the 27 neighborhoods shows that 69% of those
households benefited with the project were under extreme poverty, measured as households with
unsatisfied basic needs. They also benefited for lower tariffs offered by ENACAL to low-income

                                                                                                    15
customers. Results show that out of the US$ 18 million of net benefit obtained from intervention
in the 27 neighborhoods, 78% goes to households under extreme poverty, while the 22% remnant
goes to the other households.

64.      Results of the economic evaluation show 19 percent returns for the whole Project, and a
net benefit of US$13 million. Water interventions in low-income neighborhoods, which showed
returns of 23 percent, had the best results. Sanitation interventions in the same neighborhoods had
returns of 19 percent. The investment of rehabilitating and expanding the wastewater treatment
plant in Ciudad Sandino shows 13% return and net benefits of US$ 0.7 million.

65.      Estimated Benefits of the WWTP of Ciudad Sandino are underestimated, as its
environmental impact on Lake Managua was not accounted for. Environmentally, Lake Managua
is a key element of the capital as it represents a potential source for potable water, a large attraction
for ecological and sustainable tourism, and also provides a habitat for various animal species. The
Lake has deteriorated due to contamination caused among others by untreated wastewater
discharges and pollutants from the agricultural industry. The rehabilitation of the Ciudad Sandino
WWTP is one important element within the National policy to control and gradually eliminate
pollution in the lake.

66.     Results are similar to those foreseen at Appraisal. The Project obtained a 19 percent return,
far higher than the 12 percent used as a proxy for the opportunity cost, yet lower than the 25 percent
expected at Appraisal. The main reason for the lower return was lower than expected benefits from
component two (improved service quality and efficiency) given that NRW was not reduced as
expected. Despite the poor NRW results, component two’s overall result had a 19 percent return.

Table 2. Results of Economic Evaluation
  Results of Economic Evaluation                 PAD                           ACTUAL
                                                 NPV               IRR         IRR    NPV
                                                 (Million USD)     (%)         (%)    (Million USD)
  Component 1.
    Water component                              3.00              17.2%       3.46        23.5%
    Sewerage component                           6.50              21.3%       4.27        19.9%
  Component 2
   Rehabilitation WWTP Ciudad Sandino                                          0.68        13.6%
   Improved service quality and efficiency       6.80              26.0%       5.03        19.5%
  TOTAL                                          21.00             24.7%       13.44       18.9%

67.     A financial evaluation of the Project was carried out as well and included costs and benefits
as they were paid and received by ENACAL. Results are similar to those foreseen during Appraisal.
The water activities obtained positive results, while the sanitation activities showed deficits.
Positive results for water were obtained mainly due to an increase in water supply, improved billing
processes, and higher collection rate. In sanitation these efficiencies were included as well,
however, the tariffs were so low that higher efficiencies were not enough to pay for operating
expenses. The analysis was conducted including the 100 percent subsidy on investment given by
the GoN.

68.     This evaluation was complemented with a cost comparison of similar projects in the region.
Results show that actual costs per household were 30 percent lower for water intervention and 60
percent lower for sanitation. For details on the economic and financial evaluations, see Annex 3.



                                                                                                      16
69.     Cost Recovery Indicator. One of the PDO indicators, the cost recovery index did not reach
the expected level of 1.0. The indicator was defined at appraisal as collected revenue over operating
expenses; the level of 1.0 meant that collected revenue would be equal to operating cost.
Achievement of this indicator equated to financial sustainability, one of ENACAL’s top priorities.

70.     Actual results show deterioration of the indicator from 0.82 in 2008 to 0.61 in 2014. The
results are explained by factors that are external to ENACAL as well as factors related to
ENACAL’s management. Among the external factors, two are of great importance: (i) tariffs,
which are established by the regulatory agency INAA - Instituto Nicarguense de Acueductos y
Alcantarillados (and reviewed by MHCP); and (ii) electricity costs, which correspond to about 50
percent of total operating costs and about 80 percent of total revenue collected. During Appraisal,
the GoN expressed its intentions to adjusting tariffs on a regular basis to account for inflation and
to apply real increases (beyond inflation) to tariff levels every year. The increases did not occur
with the planned frequency; in 2013, ENACAL increased the tariffs only once by 5% to apply the
increase approved in 2008. On the other hand, energy costs doubled from 2008 to 2014.

71.      During implementation, however, ENACAL had important efficiency gains: (i) labor
productivity improved from 7.2 employees per 1,000 water connections to 6.0; (ii) billed revenue
and collected revenue increased 70 percent and 71 percent respectively; (iii) water and sewerage
connections increased by 20 percent and 25 percent respectively; and (iv) the volume of water
billed increased by 26 percent. ENACAL also attained other efficiency improvements such as the
incorporation of illegal connections to ENACAL’s consumer database, an increase in billing
through micro metering, and a positive response to ENACAL’s public campaign for bills payment.

72.      Nevertheless, ENACAL’s internal efficiency gains were not enough to compensate for the
loss of revenues due to flat tariffs and increasing operating costs, in which higher energy costs
played an important part. Lower revenue and higher costs widened the gap between collected
revenue and operating cost, increasing the operational deficit and decreasing the cost recovery ratio.

73.     It is important to highlight that efficiency gains helped avoid an even higher deterioration
of ENACAL’s financial situation. A sensitivity analysis was conducted assuming that revenue
collected per connection remained at 2008 levels, and results show that the cost recovery index
would have been 0.43 instead of 0.61, and the operational deficit would have been C$444M higher.

Table 3. Actual figures and simulated if revenue collected had not improved
                                                             Figures obtained if collected revenue would
                                           Actual figures                have not improved
                                       2,008     2,014      2,008             2,014          Increase
 Cost recovery rate                    0.82      0.61       0.82              0.43
 Collected Revenue (C$ million)         888       1,522      888               1,078
 Operational deficit (C$ million)       (197)     (976)      (197)             (1,420)        444

74.      The GoN, as matter of public policy, decided not to increase tariffs and to continue funding
most of ENACAL’s operating deficit, thus allowing the company to continue operating. When
funds transferred from the Government to finance operating costs are included as part of revenues,
results show that cost recovery ratio was in average 95% during the period.

75.      In regard to administrative efficiency, beyond the yearlong extension, which was mainly a
result of the slow start to implementation that resulted from unfamiliarity with Bank procedures
and the mis-procurement, ENACAL implemented PRASMA in accordance with the Project’s


                                                                                                    17
timeline. PRASMA’s close linkage with ENACAL’s various development plans generated high
levels of commitment, facilitating efficient implementation.

76.      Projections for ENACAL’s Cost Recovery beyond the Project. ENACAL’s financial
projection was built for the next five years in order to evaluate its ability to properly operate and
sustain the investments financed under the project. The assumptions reflect much of the historical
performance of ENACAL as well as the Government’s policy regarding tariffs and financial
support to cover operational deficit. The assumptions did not include tariff increases and they
maintain the pace of efficiency improvement that ENACAL has shown in the last years. At the
same time, transfers from the Government were included for 2015 in the amount already agreed
with ENACAL; and for the following years the annual average of the last four years. Results show
that if ENACAL maintains its efforts to improve efficiency in revenue collection (0.05% per year),
unaccounted for water (5%) and achieves 15% reduction on energy costs, the cost recovery rate
will go to 75%. Additionally, if the Government’s annual transfers continue as predicted, ENACAL
would be able to cover all its operating costs and to properly operate and sustain the investments.

Overall Outcome Rating

77.      Given that the PDO-level sanitation indicator target was adjusted during the Restructuring,
the ICR team conducted a split analysis focused on sanitation (See Table 3) as the water objective
remained the same before and after the restructuring. The results of the split analysis (before and
after the restructuring) reveal that in regard to sanitation, the overall outcome would be between
Moderately Unsatisfactory before restructuring (equivalent to a score of three) and Satisfactory
after restructuring (equivalent to a score of five). By applying the disbursement-related weighting
to sanitation, the overall rating would be 3.38, equivalent to MU. Nevertheless, the water indicator
surpassed the original target and independently would have received a score of five, a Satisfactory
rating. Considering that water and sanitation are weighted equally, the overall result is 4.19, or
Moderately Satisfactory. Despite PRASMA’s High Relevance, Substantial Efficacy and
Substantial Efficiency ratings, the ICR team rates the overall outcome as Moderately Satisfactory
given the results of the split analysis (MS).

Table 4. Split Evaluation – Sanitation
                                               Original PDO target     Revised          Overall
             Rating Sanitation                         MU                S
 Rating Value                                           3                 5
 % Disbursed                                            81               19
 Weighted Value and Final Sanitation Rating            2.43             0.95           3.38 = MU
               Rating Water
 Rating Water and rating value                         S=5                NA             5=S
 Overall                                                                            4.19 =(3.38+5) / 2
                                                                                         = MS



Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

78.     PRASMA focused on improving WSS service in poor communities. An estimated 75
percent of the households in the 27 neighborhoods and 83 percent of households in Bello Amanecer



                                                                                                   18
had two or more unmet basic needs.20 As highlighted in the efficacy section, these neighborhoods
saw improvements in their water and/or sanitation services and their standard of living. The results
from the efficiency analysis also confirm that the substantial part of the investments went to the
poorer households. ENACAL’s capacity to carry out and maintain investments in poor
communities also increased as a result of PRASMA. Specifically, ENACAL developed social
engagement strategies that facilitated works implementation in poor neighborhoods and also
developed the communities’ knowledge on maintenance of the systems, connection to the sanitation
network and basic hygiene. In addition, the tariff collection strategy increased the likelihood of
payment from the households in poor neighborhoods, providing greater incentive for ENACAL to
invest in and maintain service quality in the communities. The use of condominial sewerage
systems also enabled ENACAL to extend the sewerage network to more households at a far lower
cost.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

79.          See paragraphs 46 to 59 of the Efficacy section.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

80.      Unintended impacts of PRASMA included ENACAL’s request that the Bank engage
further in assisting with the development of the Master Plan for Operational Efficiency in Managua
(See Paragraphs 40 and 41) as well as PISASH’s adoption of many of the good pra ctices begun
under PRASMA (See Paragraph 43).

Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
81.  Not Applicable.

Section 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

82.      The overall risk to the development outcome is Substantial given ENACAL’s financial
situation and the long-term risks associated with some of PRASMA’s institutional strengthening
achievements that have yet to be formally incorporated into ENACAL’s operating structure. To
compensate for ENACAL’s financial situation, the MHCP has been regularly covering ENACAL’s
deficits and is committed to continue this practice until ENACAL achieves financial sustainability.
ENACAL and the MHCP are focused on improving ENACAL’s financial sustainability through
improving operational and commercial efficiency to the extent possible (see paragraph 76 for
future projection). The GoN decided not to take policy measures to improve financial sustainability,
such as tariff increase and staffing changes at this point due to the potential sensitivities that such
measures could create.

83.     In terms of consolidating good practices developed under PRASMA, the Commercial
Management Department has continued implementing the tariff collection strategy throughout
Nicaragua despite the close of PRASMA, demonstrating a level of ownership. On the other hand,
the DANF is still a fragile department given that it does not operate its own budget and is not
positioned to coordinate activities between departments. The macro and micro sectors financed by
PRASMA will be functional so long as the DANF maintains the capacity to ensure that they are
not interconnected with other sectors. Nevertheless, ENACAL expressed its commitment to


20
     ENACAL, “Caracterización de la Pobreza en el Barrio Bello Amanecer” y Caracterización de la Pobreza en los 27 Barrios,” 2014.

                                                                                                                               19
continue the process of strengthening the DANF to manage the PRASMA-financed macro and
micro sectors and to expand the sectorization strategy throughout Managua.
84.     ENACAL’s and Ministry of Finance’s high-level officials have expressed that NRW
reduction is currently ENACAL’s first strategic priority (together with energy cost savings),
mitigating the risk to PRASMA’s NRW outcomes in the near future. The development of
ENACAL’s Operational Efficiency Master Plan, which is focused on NRW and energy efficiency,
will also contribute to the consolidation of the efficiency management strategies begun under
PRASMA. The institutional strengthening activities laid the groundwork for improving the
efficiency and effectiveness of operations, and the positive results generated from these activities
will encourage their further development, but additional steps need to be taken to ingrain these
developments in ENACAL’s operating structure for their long-term sustainability.

85.      The risk to the sustainability of the infrastructure works in the 27 neighborhoods in the
short-term is low. An independent consultant financed by PRASMA visited each community and
found that the designs had been satisfactorily implemented and that the WSS systems were
functioning properly. In the long-term, however, sustainability depends largely on the
communities’ payment for ENACAL’s services, and ENACAL’s overall sustainability. The social
work and the commercial management methods developed under PRASMA are creating a culture
of payment in the communities and are gradually being consolidated within ENACAL and extended
to the other low-income communities the company provides service to (such as those financed by
the PISASH program). Nevertheless, continued work is still needed to ingrain this practice.

Section 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank Performance
Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

86.     The Project design reflected a solid understanding of ENACAL’s strategic plans and
ongoing investment projects. The design balanced innovative activities with solid investment
projects and was well aligned with ENACAL’s capacity to implement. The inclusion of softer,
“pilot” elements, such as condominial sewerage, new tariff collection strategies and increased
social and environmental accompaniment shifted ENACAL’s approach in various areas. From the
point of view of advancing ENACAL’s development and engaging in sector policy dialogue, the
inclusion of the cost recovery indicator was justified. Alternatively, from a project, results-
framework point of view, the inclusion of the cost recovery indicator could be seen as a design
shortcoming given its vulnerability to external factors.

Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

87.     ICR team interviews with ENACAL staff revealed a high level of satisfaction with Bank
supervision, especially with the international experts the Bank team brought to develop the
commercial management, NRW, condominial sewerage and socio-environmental activities. The
Bank team provided active supervision support and adjusted the Project as it evolved so that it was
as relevant to ENACAL’s needs as possible. For example, at ENACAL’s request, the Bank
included the financing of the Ciudad Sandino WWTP. In addition, from 2011 to 2013, at the request
of the GoN, the Bank prepared a WSS sector policy note, a modernization strategy for ENACAL
and an analysis of tariffs to improve ENACAL’s financial situation. The Bank team’s decision to
maintain the cost-recovery indicator, given the positive dialogue it was generating, and despite the
fact that it had high chances of not being achieved, demonstrated the supervision team’s

                                                                                                 20
commitment to ENACAL’s high-level goals and long-term sustainability. The Bank team also
maintained a dialogue with other donors in the sector throughout implementation to share lessons
learned and organize investments in the most impactful way possible. However, the Bank team
could have supported ENACAL more efficiently in terms of procurement, thus reducing Project
implementation delays. In fact, ENACAL staff commented that it would have been helpful to have
a procurement specialist stationed in Nicaragua to provide closer support.

88.    Based on the two Bank performance ratings, the ICR rates overall Bank performance as
Moderately Satisfactory.

Borrower Performance

Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

89.      During preparation and implementation, the MHCP demonstrated an active interest in the
success of PRASMA. The Bank team consistently met with MHCP staff and the Minister himself
to discuss implementation as well as larger, sector policy issues. The GoN, however, did not
implement important measures, such as tariff increases and staffing adjustments, jeopardizing the
achievement of PRASMA’s cost recovery indicator. The Municipality of Managua also displayed
a high-level of commitment to the Project. In addition to facilitating involuntary resettlement cases
(the Municipality provided new housing for the families and carried out two of the resettlement
cases itself), the Municipality coordinated its works with ENACAL, only paving roadways once
WSS works, which required digging underneath the roads, were complete.

Implementing Agency Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

90.      On a whole, ENACAL demonstrated a high-level of commitment to the success of the
Project. The PCU was well staffed and, despite several procurement and FM issues, effectively
oversaw and coordinated the successful completion of all the planned activities. The social and
environmental staff, who provided training to contractors and oversaw the contractors’
implementation of social and environmental norms among other measures, laid the groundwork for
the successful implementation of the works in the 27 neighborhoods and Bello Amanecer.
ENACAL’s leadership participated in Bank missions and systematically followed Project progress.
The leadership’s commitment to PRASMA’s successful implementation was highlighted during
the final months of implementation when it used US$500,000 of its own funds to ensure the
completion of all activities. Moderate implementation shortcomings included lengthy procurement
processes (and the case of mis-procurement), FM exchange rate issues (see par. 38) and the slow
institutionalization of good practices.

91.     Based on the Moderately Satisfactory Government Performance and the Moderately
Satisfactory Implementing Agency Performance, the ICR team rates overall Borrower Performance
as Moderately Satisfactory.

Section 6. Lessons Learned

92.     Bank-executed funding for TA can play a key role in implementing innovative activities.
The implementation of innovative activities oftentimes requires capacity building at the utility as
well as close support during implementation of pilot models. Bank-executed funding (mainly
through grants) that finance international experts to provide on-the-ground support over a period

                                                                                                  21
of time play a key role in building utilities’ ‘know-how’ and appropriation of new best practices.
In the PRASMA Project, international experts supported the implementation of all the innovative
activities (NRW methodology, commercial strategy, condominial sewerage, financial projects and
social and environmental methodology).

93.       The integration of PCUs promotes the institutionalization of activities. When the PCU is
staffed by consultants and sits as a separate entity from the utility, implementation is usually more
efficient, but the appropriation of project elements is limited. In addition, the “know-how” gained
from implementing the project can be lost at the end of the project cycle. To capture the efficiency
benefits and avoid a lack of appropriation, design teams can integrate the PCU into the utility’s
operating structure through focusing the PCU’s responsibilities on project-specific fiduciary and
monitoring and evaluation activities and engaging the utilities’ departments to manage
implementation. PRASMA had a PCU that was partially integrated with ENACAL’s operations,
avoiding the full risk of lack of institutionalization mentioned above. For the most part, the
activities that were carried out by ENACAL’s departments, in close coordination with the PCU
were appropriated as ENACAL’s method of doing business while the activities carried out by the
PCU in an isolated way were seen as PRASMA’s methods and took longer to be appropriated or
are still in the process of appropriation.

94.      Institutional change is a long-term process, especially when the Bank is initiating or re-
initiating a relationship with a client. Before engaging effectively on institutional modernization
activities, the client and the Bank task-team need to develop a level of trust in each other. After
confidence is established, projects can usually move forward with more innovative, institutional-
focused activities. Nevertheless, the process of appropriating best practices oftentimes requires far
more time than the life of one project especially when the client has low institutional capacity. As
described in the Risks to the Development Outcome Section, many of the good practices established
through PRASMA are still in the process of appropriation. A method to reduce the risk that good
practices will not disappear with the close of the project and also to implement effective
institutional reforms is to engage new or low-capacity clients in projects with implementation
periods that extend beyond five years.

95.     In small countries, projects can motivate policy action. While policy issues such as tariff
levels may fall outside the reach of projects in large countries with easy access to financing, in
small countries with limited financial resources a project can be an effective vehicle to facilitate
discussion on sector wide issues. In these countries, project-level is oftentimes country-level. The
inclusion of high-level indicators on key sector issues promotes visibility not only at the
implementation agency level but also at the highest levels of government. In the case of Nicaragua,
PRASMA motivated consistent policy dialogue at all levels of the GoN. The inclusion of the cost
recovery indicator at the PDO-level played a key role in keeping tariff reform, efficiency issues
and energy prices at the top of the minds of high-level officials.

96.      Developing and Sustaining WSS Infrastructure in Poor Urban Areas. When carrying out
WSS infrastructure projects in very poor areas, some challenges, including violence, theft of
infrastructure as well as building sustainability, can be amplified. Strong and consistent social
accompaniment that begins in the pre-investment phase with community consultation on designs
and continues throughout implementation and after completion is key to minimizing these
challenges as it increases communities’ sense of ownership, understanding of the benefits, and
commitment to the success of the project. To build sustainability of the infrastructure, the social
accompaniment should be aligned with utilities’ commercial arms to improve collection rates and
thus utilities’ long-term commitment to maintaining quality service and investing in poor
communities.

                                                                                                  22
Section 7. Comments from the Borrower, Implementing Agency and/or Partners

97.    No Stakeholder Workshop was held as part of this ICR process and no comments were
provided by other Cofinanciers and/or Partners.

98.      ENACAL believes that once the project was developed and implementation was underway,
execution of the project was relatively smooth until closing. The project extended potable water
services to 161,896 beneficiaries and improved sanitation solutions to 62,295 people, exceeding
the targets in its implementation plan.

99.     During project implementation, ENACAL, in its capacity as implementing agency,
displayed a high level of commitment to the success of the project, ensuring its implementation
through a PCU. The PCU worked with the company’s departments to ensure effective coordination
and ownership with a view to the successful completion of all planned activities. One key element
was the social and environmental support provided to build contractor capacity, supervise
implementation by the contractors of environmental and social norms, and ensure coordination with
the communities, in accordance with the principle of partnership and shared responsibility.

100.     The commitment to the successful implementation of PRASMA is underscored by the
progress made toward completion of the works set forth in the implementation plan. In addition,
despite the cancellation of funding for works in the nine communities, ENACAL used its own funds
to carry out activities.

101.    ENACAL views implementation of the indicators as satisfactory. However, owing to
exogenous factors outlined in this document and analyzed jointly during all supervision missions
throughout the project cycle, Indicator 3 (Cost Recovery) partially achieved the baseline value (79
percent). With regard to tariff increases, ENACAL always honored its contractual commitment to
conduct tariff studies in low-income neighborhoods, at all times following policies and actions for
ensuring coverage improvements.

102. Lastly, ENACAL would like to express its gratitude for the ongoing support provided by
the World Bank Team in the area of capacity building, providing best practices recommendations
that were implemented in the project, such as business strategy, non-revenue water, and
macrometering of the networks. Based on that experience, these best practices are being taken into
account in institutional plans and projects that will be implemented under the Water Supply and
Sanitation Program (PISASH).




                                                                                                23
                Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing

     (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                            Appraisal        Actual     Percentage
                            Estimate          (USD     of Appraisal
     Components           (USD millions,    millions,     (Actual)
                           10/31/2008)     02/28/2015)

Component 1: Coverage
Extension and
                                      20      19.17        96%
Improvement in Low-
Income Neighborhoods
Component 2: Technical
                                      15      17.34        116%
Efficiency Improvements
Component 3:
Institutional
Strengthening and                      5      3.49         70%
Project Monitoring and
Evaluation
Total Project Costs                   40       40          100%

                           (b) Financing
                            Appraisal
                                             Actual    Percentage
                            Estimate          (USD of Appraisal
   Source of Funds        (USD millions,
                                            millions,   (Actual)
                           10/31/2008)
                                           02/28/2015)
Counterpart financing             0            .59
International
Development                      40          39.41        98.5%
Association
Total                            40            40         100%




                                                                      24
                                  Annex 2: Outputs by Component

            Activity                                       Output
Component One: Coverage Extension and Improvement in Low-Income Neighborhoods
WSS Infrastructure              Sewerage connections benefiting 62,295 people installed,
                                   156.88KM of distribution network installed
                                New/Improved Household Water Connections benefiting
                                   161,896 people installed, 105.25KM of distribution network
                                   installed
                                Successful pilot of condominial sewerage systems implemented
                                Ciudad Sandino WWTP constructed/rehabilitated
                                        o The Plant currently treats 170 liters per second

Micrometers                         Approximately 95,391 micrometers installed
Community Capacity Building         Community members received training on hygiene practices,
                                     bill paying, solid waste disposal and how to maintain their WSS
                                     systems among other topics
                                  Method for monitoring and encouraging household connection
                                     to the sewerage network established at ENACAL
Component Two: Technical Efficiency Improvements
Commercial Efficiency             New approach to tariff collection established and implemented
                                  Commercial software, vehicles, computers, work stations
                                     purchased
                                  Commercial department re-organized
Operational Efficiency            DANF established
                                  Four macro sectors established
                                           o Two tanks, adduction lines, pumping equipment and
                                               control units
                                  34 micro sectors established
                                  Pressure management improved
                                  4,045 leaks identified
Component Three: Institutional Strengthening and Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Company Scorecard                 Integrated scorecard to monitor company progress developed
Financial analysis strategy       Modernization strategy developed
                                  Tariff analysis conducted




                                                                                                  25
                             Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      The objective of the Project was to increase access to reliable WSS to the population of the
GMR by improving and expanding WSS services in low-income neighborhoods and improving
supply and efficiency in specific areas.

2.      This annex presents the evaluations of the project from two different perspectives:
economic and financial. The economic evaluation included the costs expressed in economic terms
and eliminated market distortions caused by subsidies and taxes. The benefits were expressed as
the populations’ perceived improvement in wellbeing. The financial evaluation included the costs
and benefits as they were actually paid and received by ENACAL. This evaluation was
complemented with a distributive analysis to show the Project’s winners and losers.

Economic Evaluation

3.       At Appraisal the economic evaluation was conducted through a cost benefit analysis that
used avoided costs, hedonic prices, and willingness to pay. The approaches used for each type of
intervention were: (1) for water service expansion, the economic benefits were estimated as: (i)
resource savings for households that would no longer need to buy water from other, more
expensive, sources; (ii) benefits of access to water services estimated through the increase in
property values (leasing) associated with the water connection, using a hedonic price function; (2)
for sanitation expansion, benefits were estimated as: (i) improvement of environmental and sanitary
conditions in the Project area due to the expansion of the sewerage network, assessed using
contingent valuation; (ii) resource savings associated with the cleaning of septic tanks and latrines;
and (3) for efficiency gains, benefits associated with reduction of water losses and benefits to users
for having a continuous water supply were estimated through contingent valuation. Financial
benefits were estimated based on: (i) the number of customers billed for water and sewerage; (ii)
the volume of water and sewerage billed and current tariffs; (iii) ENACAL’s savings in operating
costs; (iv) and the improvement in collection of revenues.

4.       The cost benefit analysis calculates the net benefits generated by each component on an
incremental basis. The benefits of the Project are equal to the difference between the incremental
benefits and the incremental costs of two scenarios: “with” and “without” the Project. The “with”
project scenario considers the actual achievements obtained with the interventions. The “without”
project scenario considers the service would have continued unchanged, i.e. coverage, hours of
service, unaccounted for water, and commercial performance would have remained the same during
the Project’s lifetime. The activities were appraised measuring the flow of costs and benefits for
the lifetime of the Project, estimated at 30 years. The discount rate used was 12 percent and was
estimated as the opportunity cost of capital for Nicaragua.
5.      At Appraisal, the estimation of economic benefits was based on the information gathered
from a survey applied to a representative sample of 1,659 households randomly selected from 17
neighborhoods. For this ICR, the analysis was conducted evaluating the impact the interventions
had on the following beneficiaries: (a) for WSS service expansion, the residents of the 27
neighborhoods; and (b) for water efficiency, the beneficiaries of the GMR outside the 27
neighborhoods; and c) for the wastewater treatment plant on the residents of Ciudad Sandino.

6.      To measure the benefits of WWS and water efficiency, this evaluation used the avoided
cost approach. The results were compared with the willingness to pay obtained when preparing the
Project. The hedonic price method was not used due to lack of information related to actual increase


                                                                                                   26
of properties’ leases caused by implemented works. To measure the benefits of WWTP, the
approved tariff for wastewater treatment was used as proxy of the willingness to pay.

7.      Actual benefits and actual costs were included in this evaluation. Both were transformed
to 2008 prices in order to compare them against the ones projected at Appraisal. The same
conversion factors used at Appraisal to transform economic to financial prices were used in this
evaluation.

Costs

8.     Expected and Actual Costs. The costs were broken down by type of intervention. Table 1.
Shows the costs expressed at nominal prices per component and sector.

                                                                 Actual costs in Nominal prices
  Table 1. Actual and expected Costs                                      (000 USD)

                                                  PAD           Total           Water      Sanitation
  COMPONENT 1. WSS Coverage extension
  and improvement low income neighborhoods
     27 barrios                                                 14,365           5,172       9,194
     Bello Amanecer                                              1,400             -         1,400
     San Isidro de Bolas                                          511             511          -
     Subtotal WSS coverage extension
  improvement low income neighborhoods            20,000        16,276           5,683       10,594
   Other activities
     Micro meters                                                1,279           1,279          -
     Pilot programs (condominial)                                  53               -          53
     Study, design WWTP Ciudad Sandino                            337               -         337
    Social/environmental activities                               128              64          64
  Subtotal other activities                                      1,797           1,343        455
   Technical supervision                                         1,410            508         902
   TOTAL COMPONENT 1                              20,000        19,483           7,533       11,951
   COMPONENT 2. Improved water supply
  and efficiency in selected areas
    Improved infrastructure increase efficiency                 12,243          12,126         117
    Rehabilitation of WWTP Ciudad Sandino                        4,756             -          4,756
   TOTAL COMPONENT 2                              15,000        16,999          12,126        4,873
   COMPONENT 3                                    5,000          3,521           3,521          -
   TOTAL                                          40,000        40,004          23,181       16,823

9.      For this evaluation, all costs were transformed to 2008 prices to compare them with the
ones expected at appraisal. To do so, costs were adjusted annually by inflation or exchange rate
according to currency and time of implementation. During implementation, the local currency
depreciated against the USD by approximately 29%, going from C$20 per US dollar at the end of
2008 to C$26 at the beginning of 2015. Inflation on the other hand showed a 45% price increase
from 2008 to 2015. Depreciation of the local currency helped the Project as loan disbursements
were converted to a higher amount of local currency; inflation on the other side hurt the Project as
fewer goods could be bought with the same amount of money.

10.     Results show that the Project’s total cost was 12% lower than expected.



                                                                                                  27
Table 2. Actual and Expected costs expressed in 2008 prices
                                                                                                             Actual Costs

     (000 USD)                                                                      PAD           Nominal Prices         2008 Prices
     COMPONENT 1. WSS Coverage extension-improvement
     low income neighborhoods                                                      20,000               19,483               16,584
     COMPONENT 2. Improved water supply and efficiency
     in selected areas                                                             15,000               16,999               15,375
      COMPONENT 3                                                                   5,000                3,521                3,217
      TOTAL                                                                        40,000               40,004               35,175

Benefits

11.     Water Expansion in low-income neighborhoods. Surveys were conducted in the 27
neighborhoods to understand how the Project beneficiaries dealt with the poor water service they
received before the Project. The surveys revealed that prior to the Project, beneficiaries had access
to a water supply two to ten hours per day. Households collected water from different sources,
which varied from other areas where service was better, rainwater during rainy seasons, or streams
nearby with water of unknown quality. Some of the families bought bottled water for cooking while
others boiled it. They all stored water in barrels or 5-gallon containers. Results show that on average
(a) one person in each household dedicated one hour per day to collect water; (b) each household
had one water barrel and four 5-gallon containers; and (c) only 5% of households either boiled
water or bought bottled water. The resulting cost per household for water was US$13 per month at
2008 prices.21 This cost was similar to the willingness to pay estimated at Appraisal, US$11.5 per
household per month.

12.     Sanitation coverage in low-income neighborhoods. During preparation it was stated that
36% of beneficiaries had septic tanks and that 64% either had latrines or a pit. During Appraisal,
the economic evaluation was conducted assuming that the cost of cleaning the septic tank was
US$24 per month, and the willingness to pay of households with latrines or pits was US 8 per
month. The weighted monthly benefit when all in-situ disposal systems were eliminated was
estimated at of US$14 per household. However, the survey carried out after implementation showed
lower costs for cleaning the septic tanks and the frequency of cleaning was minimum if any.

13.      As a result, this evaluation assessed the avoided cost of health related diseases once
sanitation services were in place. The benefits were based on the results of the study carried out in
2012 by the WSP22 in Nicaragua under the Economics of Sanitation Initiative (ESI). The study
estimated benefits on health, water resources, welfare, and tourism. For this evaluation, only health
and welfare related benefits were used. These benefits were quantified as the averted costs when
sanitation improves. Health costs consisted of: (a) healthcare costs from formal health care services
and traditional healers; (b) productivity costs equivalent to welfare or income lost due to the
sickness; and (c) costs of premature death, which corresponded to discounted lifetime income



21
   The calculation was based on the following assumptions: a) cost of time based on minimum hourly wage of US$ 0.42/hour (about
C$ 8.5) corresponding to minimum wage applied to manufacture industry. Given that kids and women are the ones who collected the
water on normal basis, a 50% factor was applied. The resulting cost of time was US$ 7 per household per month; b) storage cost was
estimated at US$ 3/month per household based on cost of barrel and other containers and their lifetime; and c) boiled or bottled water
was estimated at US$ 3 per household per month.
22
   WSP-LAC. World Bank (2012), Economic Impacts of Sanitation in Nicaragua. A Country Study Under the Economics of
Sanitation Initiative (ESI).

                                                                                                                                   28
losses. Welfare benefits consisted of reduction or elimination of time spent going to the latrines
instead of having sanitary facilities inside the houses.

14.    The expected net benefits were calculated per household and then extrapolated to the total
number of beneficiaries.

15.     Health. The incidence of diseases attributable to poor sanitation presented in the ESI study
in Nicaragua is as follows:

  Table 3. Annual incidences of diseases caused by poor sanitation and hygiene in Nicaragua
                                    Children <5      Children 5-4        Population 15+       Total
  Diarrhea (1998-2007)               1,767,788         895,822              1986,872        4650,482
  Hepatitis A (1998-2007)               245              503                  185              933
  Intestinal Parasites (2008-10)      152,042                       346,458                  498,500
  Source: WSP-ESI (2012)

16.      The WSP study found that on average, the estimated annual diarrheal incidence rate is 0.9
cases per person. Total number of deaths attributable to poor sanitation is nearly 500 of which 308
are a result of diarrhea and 180 are a result of diseases related to malnutrition caused by diarrhea
infections in early childhood. 95 percent of these deaths correspond to children under five.

17.      Health Care Costs. The ESI study estimated the health care cost based on disease incidence
rates, treatment-seeking rates, treatment practices, and unit costs. 43% of children under five
receive treatment at a medical facility; this is also the case for 20% of older children and 15% of
adults. 90% of children under five with diarrhea receive one or more forms of treatment, which
include treatment from medical facilities, purchase of oral rehydration salts (ORS) and medicines
at pharmacies, and home remedies. Treatment cost varies from US$2 per pills and ORS to US$15
for treatment at a medical facility.

18.      Health related productivity cost. Disease takes people away from daily activities and
results in a loss of time for children and adults. Economic cost of time was valued for adults as the
minimum hourly rate of about C$8.5 (US$0.4). For children, time was valued at half of adult time.
Time off daily activities varies by disease: one day for diarrhea and fifteen days for hepatitis.

19.      Cost of premature death. Premature death has an economic impact due to the loss of wages
and economic outputs generated in the future. The WSP study used the “human capital approach”
for children under five years of age, and the value of a statistical life (VSL) for the population over
five years of age. The human capital approach approximates the value of human life using the
estimated future discounted income stream from a productive person, based on a working life of
17 to 65 years, a 2% annual growth in real income, and a 3% discount rate. The result was
US$71,200 per premature death. The VSL approach used the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development’s (OECD) average of US$2M adjusted by the difference in GDP
per capita between OECD member countries and Nicaragua and using an income elasticity of 1.0.
The resulting value was US$71,400 per premature death.

20.      The Wealth Impact was measured as a reduction of time spent using a sanitary solution
when a sanitary facility is available in the house. Without the Project, 63% of households had used
latrines, which often were shared by other households. Time lost was estimated by the WSP study
of about 10 minutes per member of the household once a day. To value this time, the same
assumptions for productivity costs were used.


                                                                                                    29
Impact of appropriate sanitation on health

21.     The effect of improved sanitation on health is assumed at 45% when accompanied by
hygiene practices such as hand washing. When hygiene practices are not employed, the benefit
reduces to 37.5%. The benefits of the intervention were estimated only for those households that
are actually connected to the sewerage system and employ hygiene practices.

22.      The assumptions of the impact of sanitation were taken from the results of the studies
carried out by Pruss at al. (2002)23 and Esrey’s.24 The studies derived the relative risks of diarrhea
illness from international literature and quantified the shift of risk when transitioning between
different water and sanitation scenarios (Table 4 presents the selected scenarios and their
corresponding relative risks). Scenario I is considered the ideal scenario in which there is no
transmission of diseases through water, sanitation, or hygiene. In this case the disease is transmitted
through other mechanisms, mostly food or air (aerosols, or person to person).

     Table 4. Relative Risk Under Selected Exposure Scenarios

                                                                                              Relative
                                                                                                Risk
                                                                            Pathogen                            Reduction between
     Situation                        Description                                            associated
                                                                              load                                  scenarios
                                                                                                with
                                                                                             scenarios
                  NO IMPROVED WATER SUPPLY AND
                  NO BASIC SANITATION in a country that
        VI        is not extensively covered by those services,             Very High           11.00
                  and where water supply is not routinely
                  controlled
                  IMPROVED WATER SUPPLY and no
                  basic sanitation in a country that is not
                                                                                                                            From VI to
       Vb         extensively covered by those services, and                Very High             8.7          20.8%
                                                                                                                               Vb
                  where water supply is not routinely
                  controlled
                  BASIC SANITATION but no improved
                  water supply in a country that is not
                                                                                                                            From VI to
        Va        extensively covered by those services, and                   High               6.9          37.5%
                                                                                                                               Va
                  where water supply is not routinely
                  controlled
                  IMPROVED WATER SUPPLY AND
                  BASIC SANITATION in a country that is
                                                                                                                            From VI to
        IV        not extensively covered by those services,                   High               6.9          37.5%
                                                                                                                               IV
                  and where water supply is not routinely
                  controlled
                  IV and improved access to drinking water                                                                  From VI to
       IIIc                                                                    High               6.9          37.5%
                  (generally piped to household)                                                                               IIc
                                                                                                                            FromVI to
       IIIb       IV and improved personal hygiene                             High              6.05          45.0%
                                                                                                                               IIIb
                  IV and drinking water disinfected at point                                                                From VI to
       IIIa                                                                    High               4.5          59.0%
                  of use                                                                                                       IIIa




23
   Priuss, Annette; David Kay; Lorna Fewetrell; and Jamie Bartram (2002). Estimating the Burden of Disease from Water, Sanitation,
and Hygiene at a Global Level. Environmental Health Perspectives. 110 (5).
24
   Esrey SA. Water, Waste, and Well-Being: a multicounty Study (1991). Am J Epidemiol 143 (6) 703-708

                                                                                                                               30
                                                                          Relative
                                                                            Risk
                                                              Pathogen                 Reduction between
   Situation                   Description                               associated
                                                                load                       scenarios
                                                                            with
                                                                         scenarios
               Regulated water supply and full sanitation
               coverage, with partial treatment for sewage,   Medium                            From IV to
      II                                                                    2.5        65%
               corresponding to a situation typically found   to Low                                II
               in developed countries
               IDEAL SITUATION, corresponding to the
                                                                                                 From II to
       I       absence of transmission of diarrheal disease     Low         1.0        60%
                                                                                                    I
               through water, sanitation, and hygiene
Based on Prüss et al. 2002


23.     The scenario attained with the intervention evaluated corresponded to a transition from
scenario Vb in which water is available but no sanitation to IV in which both services are in place.
In both cases the impact is 37.5%. When the services are accompanied with improved personal
hygiene the impact increases to 45%.

24.       Results show that the savings in health costs with the sanitation project will be US$135 per
year per household (US$12 per month per household). The convenience cost of having the sanitary
facility, which was applied to 63% of household, is US$6 per month, resulting in a savings of
US$3.5 per household. Total benefit per household is US$15 per household per month.

Table 5. Results on health costs per household per year
                                                                  Benefits of Sanitation per year
                                              USD/hh/year
                                                                               (45%)
     Treatment cost                                 192                          86
     Time lost                                       5                            2
     Deaths                                         105                          47
     Total health costs per hh/year                 302                         135

25.     Water improvements achieved by efficiency gains. Benefits for this component were
estimated based on rehabilitation and efficiency improvements. During Appraisal benefits
included: (a) savings in operating costs when water losses were reduced from 52.1% in 2008 to
48% at the end of implementation; and (b) users’ benefits from having a continuous water supply,
which was estimated through contingent valuation.

26.     The first benefit, savings in operating costs, was not attained in this evaluation given that
actual water losses increased; by 2014, water losses were 52.8%. For this evaluation, no NRW
benefits were included even though the Project made important steps to launching an effective
NRW reduction program.

27.      The second benefit related to the improvement of the service was estimated as the avoided
cost when service improved. The same approach was used to evaluate water interventions in
component 1. Results of the survey showed that the situation in these areas prior to the Project was
not as bad as it was in the low-income neighborhoods. Households stored water in bigger tanks
either underneath or above the houses and used pumps to distribute the water inside the house. The
resulting monthly cost of operation and maintenance of storage was about US$7 per month. This


                                                                                                    31
result was lower than the willingness to pay found during preparation of US$ 11 per household per
month.

28.     Rehabilitation of Ciudad Sandino Wastewater Treatment Plant. Before the intervention
the WWTP was not functioning properly, for the whole facility was in bad shape: the pre-treatment
system, the pumping stations, the reactor, etc were all non-operational. The system needed 3
pumping stations and only one worked. According to ENACAL, when only one pump was working
54% of discharges went with not treatment at all. Moreover, the wastewater that was treated did
not comply with the quality established by legislation specifically on required level of oils, fats,
and fecal coliforms. The WWTP was part of the effort of GoN to clean Lake Managua along with
a central WWTP of higher capacity. The poor functioning of the WWTP of ciudad Sandino was
jeopardizing this effort.

29.     The rehabilitation consisted on improving the facility to work at full capacity (90 l/s) and
building an additional module of 90 l/s. The capacity will be enough to serve the whole population
in Ciudad Sandino up to 2023 (about 123 thousand people). In 2010 sewerage coverage was 47%.
Through the project, sewerage network was built in Bello Amanecer allowing 1,600 additional
households to connect to the system and increasing the coverage in Ciudad Sandino to 55%.
However not all households are currently connected. Six months after the intervention 30% were
connected to the network; it is expected however that 71% will do so assuming the same response
obtained in the 27 neighborhoods.

30.      For this ICR the benefits were estimated as follows: a) sewerage expansion for Bello
Amanecer including 30% of connection on the first two years year and then 71%; b) wastewater
treatment for those connected for the first five years and then for the whole population until the full
capacity was reached. Sensitivity analysis was conducted to show results if these assumptions were
not met. Benefits per sewerage connection were the same assumed for the 27 neighborhoods.
Benefits of wastewater treatment were estimated based on the tariff to residential customers
established in 2002 for each cubic meter of wastewater treated. This tariff even though has not
been applied to Ciudad Sandino, is used as a proxy of willingness to pay and was adjusted to 2010
prices for this evaluation.

Results of the Economic Evaluation

31.      Results of the economic evaluation show similar results to those foreseen at Appraisal. The
Project obtained a 19% return, which is far higher than the 12% used as a proxy of the opportunity
cost, yet lower than the 25% expected at appraisal. The main reason for the lower return was lower
than expected benefits from component 2 (improved service quality and efficiency) as the expected
reduction of unaccounted for water did not occur.

Table 6. Results of economic evaluation, expected and actual
                                                          PAD                          ACTUAL
                                                     NPV            IRR         IRR           NPV
                                                (Million USD)       (%)         (%)      (Million USD)
  Component 1.
    Water component                                  3.00          17.2%        3.46         23.5%
    Sewerage component                               6.50          21.3%        4.27         19.9%
  Component 2
    Rehabilitation WWTP Ciudad Sandino                                          0.68         13.6%
   Improved service quality and efficiency            6.80         26.0%        5.03         19.5%
  TOTAL                                              21.00         24.7%       13.44         18.9%

                                                                                                     32
32.        Benefits surpassed costs by 50% in component one and by 40% in component two.

33.      Estimated benefits of the WWTP of Ciudad Sandino are underestimated, as its
environmental impact on Lake Managua was not accounted for. If willingness to pay were the only
benefit, it would be required that at least 82% of households be effectively connected to make it
economically viable. However, given that other benefits are achieved, in particular relating to the
Lake water quality,25 but not estimated, the connection rate can be lower and the investment still
viable. At this time, the exact connection rate for this investment to be economically beneficial
cannot be determined exactly, as no information on the lake water quality is available to estimate
all the benefits more thoroughly.

Financial Evaluation

34.    The financial evaluation of the Project was conducted with costs and benefits expressed in
market prices. Costs and revenues were included as they actually occurred; actual tariffs,
consumption rates, and collection rates were applied. The investment cost was not included as the
GoN fully subsidized the Project’s investments. Only operating costs were included.

35.       It is important to notice that the financial evaluation of the Project is different than the
financial evaluation of ENACAL. The financial evaluation of the Project compares only
incremental costs and incremental benefits obtained with the Project under two scenarios with and
without it. The incremental situation that the Project generates is the result of the financial
evaluation of the Project. The financial evaluation of ENACAL reviews the financial situation of
the utility as a whole, including all its operations and all its projects.

36.     The financial evaluation of the Project included efficiency gains achieved by ENACAL in
the areas of intervention, such as improvement in revenue collection. Other efficiency gains
expected at Appraisal, such as reduction of water losses, did not occur and thus were not included.
Revenue collected by ENACAL increased by 40% despite the fact that tariffs were not adjusted
beyond a 5% increase at the outset of the Project to comply with a 2008 regulation. In the 27
neighborhoods, revenue collection increased from 45% in 2012 to 65% in March 2015.

37.      Results show similar results as those projected at Appraisal. For the water component,
financial benefits are US$319 thousand and the internal rate of return is 22%. Sanitation resulted
in financial losses of 1.3 million. An operational loss was foreseen at Appraisal as well, given that
tariffs and efficiency gains did not compensate the operating costs generated by the intervention.

Table .7 Results of Financial Evaluation. Expected and Actual
                                                            PAD                                          ACTUAL
                                                       NPV                    IRR                   NPV                        IRR
                                                  (Million USD)               (%)              (Million USD)                    %
     Water component                                    226                  16.0%                   319                      22.0%
     Sewerage component                              (1,507)                   na                 (1,342)                       n.a
     Water and sewerage                              (1,281)                   na                 (1,023)                       n.a


25
  The lake is not only a potential source for potable water, but also provides a habitat for different animal species. It has potential for
ecological and sustainable tourism, which the Government wants to develop properly. The Lake has deteriorated due to contamination
caused among others by discharges of untreated wastewater, and pollutants from the agricultural industry. The rehabilitation of Ciudad
Sandino WWTP is one important action within the GoN’s plan to control and gradually eliminate the pollution in the lake.



                                                                                                                                       33
Distributive Analysis

38.     A distributive analysis was carried out to identify winners and losers. The difference
between economic and financial prices and economic and financial flows represents rents or
monetary flows that accrue to someone other than ENACAL. The results of the analysis show how
the GoN, the customers, and suppliers were affected by the implementation of the Project. The total
net benefit for all society was US$14 million.

39.     The fiscal impact of the Project, which corresponds to the net benefit of the GoN, was
negative as the investment was fully subsidized by the GoN, and the US$7M of taxes received from
the Project did not compensate for the subsidy. The net loss was US$29 million.

40.     Households that benefited from the Project had positive return of US$43M after
discounting the tariffs they pay to ENACAL. Suppliers and laborers received benefits of US$0.2
million

     Table 8. Distributive Analysis
                                                                                                 Present Value (USD 000)
     FISCAL ANALYSIS (Government)
        Taxes
          Taxes on investment                                                                                5,835
          Taxes on operating costs                                                                           1,194
          Total taxes                                                                                        7,028
        Subsidies                                                                                           (36,467)
        Net Government                                                                                      (29,439)
     CUSTOMERS
        Payments made through tariffs                                                                        (6,437)
        Benefits for improving water service in 27 neighborhoods                                              9,867
        Benefits of sanitation in the 27 neighborhoods                                                       14,416
       Benefits of ENACAL efficiency                                                                         19,409
        Benefits of sanitation WWTP Ciudad Sandino                                                            6,416
        Net benefits for Population                                                                          43,671
     OTHERS
        Net received from new operation                                                                       235
     TOTAL BENEFITS                                                                                          14,468

Comparison of unit costs across the region

41.      Unit Costs. This evaluation was complemented with a cost comparison of similar projects
in the region. The average of the projects presented in table is US$1,200 per water connection, and
US$ 1,500 per sanitation connection. Actual costs obtained in the Project are higher than expected
at Appraisal,26 yet 30% lower than the average in the region for water connection and 60% lower
for sanitation.




26
  The analysis revealed what seems to be a small error in the redaction of the PAD; rather than cost per connection the costs reflect
costs per capita.

                                                                                                                                    34
Table 9. Comparison of unit costs across the region.
                                   Nicaragua                       El                   Nicarag
                                   PRASMA          Honduras     Salvador    Panama         ua
                                                                                         FISE      PASAP
                                                     2011         2011       2011        2014      Panamá
                                PAD      Actual      prices       prices     prices      prices     2015
  SANITATION.
   Cost Per connection
  (USD/hh)                       261       836       1,125         810        1,545      1,357      1,375
   Cost Per Capita (USD/pp)                186        250          180         343        302        283
  WATER.
   Cost Per connection                                                                   980 -
  (USD/hh)                       269       600       1,350        1,575       1,800      1,357      1,507
                                                                                         189 –
  Cost Per Capita (USD/pp)                 133         300          350         400       261        310
  Source: Panama PASAP. Costos en Chilibri y Veraguas
  Honduras, El Salvador, and Panama WASH
  Nicaragua. FISE. Fondo de Inversion Social de Emegencia.
  The actual unit cost was estimated taking into account all physical works and corresponding beneficiaries

Poverty Impact

42.      The poverty in the 27 neighborhoods was measured based on the “unsatisfied basic needs”
index, which takes into account the following criteria: a) housing conditions (quality of shelter and
size of house in relation to number of people living there); b) access to sanitary services (water and
sanitation); c) access to education (enrollment of school-age children in school); and d) economic
capacity (probability of income sufficiency of household).

43.     In average 69% of all households who benefited with sanitation services were under
extreme poverty conditions. The magnitude of the poverty is significant in the 27 neighborhoods
as the minimum level is shown in Villa Bulgaria with 49% of its habitants living with unsatisfied
basic needs, and some others reaching levels higher than 90%, such as Nueva Sabana, and Augusto
C. Sandino.




                                                                                                       35
Table 10. Poverty Level in the 27 Neighborhoods.
                                                              % of households
  Neighborhood
                                                           Unsatisfied Basic Needs
  Parrales Vallejos                                                61.70%
  Anexo Jardines de Veracruz                                       64.91%
  8 de Marzo                                                       62.96%
  Georgino Andrade                                                 50.49%
  Pedro Arauz Palacios                                             56.25%
  Villa Fraternidad                                                54.93%
  Laureles Norte                                                   65.93%
  Tierra Prometida                                                 81.55%
  Villa Bulgaria                                                   49.47%
  Villa Reconciliación Norte                                       67.91%
  Jericó                                                           66.67%
  Lomas de Guadalupe d-v                                           63.78%
  Santa Ana Sur                                                    74.15%
  Lomas de San Judas                                               89.69%
  Carlos Marx III y IV etapa                                       68.22%
  Gertrudis Áreas                                                  77.42%
  Juan Emilio Menocal                                              80.46%
  Augusto C. Sandino                                               91.55%
  18 de Mayo                                                       84.84%
  Arnoldo Alemán                                                   78.20%
  Carlos Núñez (los Martínez)                                      82.08%
  Comandante Aureliano                                             85.90%
  Israel Galeano                                                   82.03%
  Aquiles Morales                                                  66.67%
  San Isidro de Bola                                               88.00%
  Nueva Sabana                                                     93.75%



44.      In the distributive analysis was shown that economic benefits obtained from water and
sanitation interventions in the 27 neighborhoods was US$ 18 million, corresponding to US$ 24
million of economic benefits minus US$ 6 million paid through tariffs. ENACAL has a policy of
subsidy in the tariffs for low-income households and so they pay lower tariff than other customers.
When benefits are distributed among households based on poverty level and taking into account
differentiation of tariffs, results show that poor households grab 78% of benefits. While other
households obtain the remnant 22%.




                                                                                                36
Table 11. Share of Benefits per poverty level.
                                                  Total            Households              Other
                                            27 Neighborhoods     Extreme poverty         Households
   Economic benefits                             24,283               16,824                7,459
   Financial payments                             6,437                2,914                3,523
   Net benefit                                   17,846               13,910                3,936
   Share                                                              77.9%                22.1%

Sub-Annex 1. Cost Recovery Indicator

45.     One of the intermediate indicators, the cost recovery index did not reach the expected level
of 1.0. The indicator was defined at Appraisal as collected revenue over operating expenses
(administration, operation and maintenance); the target level of 1.0 meant that revenue collected
would be equal to operating cost.

46.      The results of the indicator depended not only on ENACAL’s internal efficiency gains, but
also on external factors, such as level of tariffs and cost increases. The GoN has decided to better
transfer funds to finance operation than increase tariffs.

47.      The operating deficit increased from C$ 57 million in 2009 to almost C$ 1,000 million in
2014, as a consequence the cost recovery ratio, as it was defined at appraisal deteriorated from 0.95
to 0.61. However when transfers from the Government to finance operation were included, the
cost recovery ratio went from 0.98 in 2009 to 0.88 in 2014, which even though is lower of what it
was expected at appraisal is 12% shorter to reach full recovery compared to almost 40% when
transfers were not included.


Table 12. Operational deficit with and without transfers from the Government
             Million Córdoba                   2009     2010      2011      2012     2013      2014
Collected Revenues                             1,082    1,079     1,112     1,187    1,335     1,522
Operating expenses                             1,139    1,398     1,619     1,902    2,202     2,498
Operating deficit w/o transfers                 (57)    (319)     (508)     (714)    (867)     (976)
Transfer from Government to pay operation        37      50        914       449      730       669
Operating deficit with transfers from
Government                                     (20)     (269)      407       (266)    (137)    (307)
Cost Recovery Ratio:
                                                                  0.69
Without transfers from Government              0.95     0.77                 0.62     0.61      0.61
with transfers from Government                 0.98     0.81       1.25      0.86     0.94      0.88



48.      To better understand the results of the cost recovery ratio and ENACAL’s efficiency gains,
this analysis evaluated collected revenues and operating expenses separately, highlighting what fell
under ENACAL’s management and what was beyond its control.

49.     Revenue. Billed revenue is what ENACAL charges for the provision of water and sewerage
services. Collected revenue corresponds to the amount of money that ENACAL actually receives
from what it billed. Billed Revenue depends on tariffs, volume of water billed, and number of
connections. Tariffs are established by the regulatory agency –INAA, and reviewed by MHCP- and
are beyond ENACAL’s control. The volume of water billed and number of connections are under
ENACAL’s control.

                                                                                                  37
50.     In 2008, INAA issued a tariff increase of five percent, but during implementation, INAA
did not issue any tariff changes. Adjustments for inflation were not even made. This is relevant
given that cumulative inflation during the period from 2009 to 2014 was 139 percent.

51.     Looking at ENACAL’s figures, it is impressive to see that even though tariffs remained at
2008 levels plus the five percent increase, billed revenue increased by 70 percent and collected
revenues by 71 percent. The revenue growth was due to increased water connections (20 percent),
sewerage connections (25 percent), volume of water billed (26 percent), as well as collection
efficiency improvements.

52.      Increased billing was mainly due to ENACAL’s efficiency gains. Actions taken by
ENACAL to increase billing included: (i) increased micro-metering to charge customers based on
their actual consumption instead of estimated consumption; (ii) increased coverage of both water
and sewerage services; and (iii) identification of illegal connections and their incorporation on
consumer database.

Figure 1. Collected revenue (million C$), Water and Sewerage Connections (000)2008-2014




53.    Annual collected revenue went from C$888M in 2008 to C$1,522 in 2014. This reflects
ENACAL’s public campaigns to incentivize payment, which accompanied with service
improvements, had a positive impact on revenue.

Table 13. Billed and Collected Revenue
                                                                        2014
                                                                                    Growth rate
   Million Córdoba      2008   2009   2010     2011   2012   2013    Preliminary
                                                                                    2008-2014
                                                                       figures
Billed Revenue         1,067 1,311    1,303   1,300   1,390 1,538       1,809          70%
Collected Revenue       888 1,082     1,079   1,112   1,187 1,335       1,522          71%
Collection rate        83% 83%        83%     86%     85% 87%            84%

54.      Operating costs consist of personnel, energy, chemicals, materials, and payments to third
parties (the Company for the protection and operation of water systems (EMPROSA)). Energy cost,
which corresponds to about 50 percent of total operating costs and about 80 percent of collected
revenue, grew more than any other component of operating costs; by 2014 energy costs were more
than double 2008 levels. Overall operating costs increased at a lower pace than inflation. This is
explained by ENACAL’s efficiency gains: (i) labor productivity went from 7.2 employees per
1,000 water connections in 2008 to 6.0 in 2014; and (ii) better knowledge of customers, service



                                                                                                  38
areas, and actual consumption, which allowed improvement of maintenance and operation
programs.


Table 14. Operating costs
   Million Córdoba                2008        2009         2010         2011           2012            2013            2014
 Personnel                         376         414          556          647            569             645             713
 Energy                            573         566          699          794            933            1,091           1,207
 EMPROSA                            -           -            -            -             209             257             315
 Others                            136         160          142          179            190             209             263
 Total                            1,085       1,139        1,398        1,619          1,902           2,202           2,498

55.     Despite efficiency gains on both operation, and billing, revenues were not able to keep pace
with operating cost, widening the gap and increasing the operation deficit. By 2014 the deficit
estimated with revenue effectively collected was closed to C$1,000 million.




56.     As a result the cost recovery index deteriorated from 0.82 in 2008 to 0.61 in 2014. This
was not expected during project design, when it was foreseen that full recovery would be reached
by the end of implementation period. The indicator level was projected based on expected
ENACAL’s efficiency gains and increase in tariffs27. As it was previously presented efficiency
gains were obtained but not increase in tariffs.

57.     The deterioration of the cost recovery index hides the benefits of ENACAL’ s efficiency
gains. To measure them, a sensitivity analysis was conducted to show how the financial results
would have been if collection of revenue had not improved and the amount actually paid per
connection would have been the same as in 2008. Results show that the cost recovery index would
have been 0.43 instead of 0.61, and the operational deficit would have risen by C$ 444M.




27
   During preparation the financial analysis concluded that tariffs needed to be permanently adjusted to annual inflation rates in order
to keep them in real terms. Additionally, the full 40 percent tariff increase approved in 2008 needed to be applied by the end of 2008,
along with an 8 percent increase in 2009 and 2010, and 5 percent in 2011. For sewerage, tariffs needed a real adjustment of at least 12
percent in 2008 and 8 percent in 2009.

                                                                                                                                     39
Table 15. Actual figures and simulated if revenue collected had not improved
                                                             Figures obtained if collected revenue would
                                           Actual figures                have not improved
                                        2,008       2,014         2,008            2,014       Increase
 Cost recovery rate                      0.82        0.61          0.82             0.43
 Collected Revenue (C$ million)           888        1,522          888            1,078
 Operational deficit (C$ million)       (197)        (976)        (197)           (1,420)        444




58.      Sustainability of the Investment. ENACAL’s financial projection was built for the next
five years in order to evaluate its ability to properly operate and sustain the investments financed
under the Project. The assumptions reflect much of the historical performance of ENACAL as
well as the Government policy regarding tariffs and financial support to cover operational deficit.
The main assumptions were: a) tariffs do not increase; b) labor productivity remains at 2014
level; c) unaccounted for water improves by 5% in the period; d) revenue collection rate increases
by 0.5% per year to reach 87% at the end of the period; e) energy costs decrease by 15%. The
assumption on energy is the result of different alternatives evaluated by ENACAL and soon to be
implemented. The alternatives include a mix of actions that aim to increase efficiency on energy
consumption and getting the lower tariff applied to large customers. ENACAL estimates that
reduction will be from 5% to 28%. The expected average was applied to project the financial
situation; and f) the transfer from the Government for 2015 was included as the amount already
agreed between the Government and ENACAL, and for the following years, as the average of the
last four years.

103.     Results show that if ENACAL maintains its effort to improve efficiency in revenue
collection, unaccounted for water and achieves a 15% reduction on energy cost, the cost recovery
rate will go up to 75%. Additionally, by maintaining the Government’s annual transfers, ENACAL
would be able to cover all its operating cost and to properly operate and sustain the investments.



                                                                                                    40
Table 16. Operational deficit with and without transfers from the Government
                  Million Córdoba                  2015    2016    2017    2018    2019
Collected Revenues                                 1,653   1,796   1,951   2,120   2,302
Operating expenses                                 2,397   2,517   2,645   2,829   3,025
Operating deficit w/o transfers                    (744)   (721)   (694)   (709)   (722)
Transfer from Government to pay operation           450     691     691     691     691
Operating deficit with transfers from Government   (294)    (30)    (3)     (18)    (32)
Cost Recovery Ratio:
                                                                   0.74
Without transfers from Government                  0.69    0.71            0.75    0.76
With transfers from Government                     0.88    0.99    1.00    0.99    0.99




                                                                                           41
   Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                       Names                            Title
           Lilian Pena P. Weiss                        Co-TTL
        Maria Angelica Sotomayor                       Co-TTL
              David Michaud                            Co-TTL
           Daniel Arguindegui              Senior Procurement Specialist
         Enrique Antonio Roman            Financial Management Specialist
         Alejandro Neira Zavala                  Program Assistant
            Andres Mac Gaul                Senior Procurement Specialist
          Carlos Aguilar Delfin           Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist
             Clementine Stip                Junior Professional Associate
           Luz Marina Bojorge                         Consultant
         Sofia de Abreu Ferreira                       Counsel
         Marcelo Hector Acerbi              Sr. Environmental Specialist
          Ximena Traa Valarezo                  Safeguards Specialist
             Violeta Wagner                   Senior Program Assistant
              Christian Borja                         Economist
                 Julie Biau                 Junior Professional Associate
             Francis Fragano                Regional Safeguards Adviser
               Alvaro Larrea               Senior Procurement Specialist
             Alejandro Alcala                      Senior Counsel
              Augusto Garcia                  Senior Operations Office
               Sarah Martiny                Junior Professional Associate
        Mariana Margarita Montiel                  Senior Counsel
           Abdelaziz Lagnaoui               Lead Environment Specialist
           Francisco Rodriguez             Senior Procurement Specialist
            Fernanda Balduino                      Finance Analyst
              Ignacio Jauregi                      Senior Counsel
            Carolina Deladillo             Program Assistant, Nicaragua
             Yolaina Montoya               Executive Assistant, Nicaragua
              Mayela Murillo               Program Assistant, Nicaragua




                                                                              42
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
       Stage of Project Cycle                             USD (including travel and
                                No. of staff weeks
                                                              consultant costs)
Lending
  FY 2008                              11.16                     35,896.54
  FY 2009                              26.11                    120,600.29
Total:                                 37.27                    156,496.83
Supervision/ICR
 FY 2009                               11.40                     79,856.60
 FY 2010                               30.24                    134,366.44
 FY 2011                               20.94                     84,964.35
 FY 2012                               13.57                     86,165.16
 FY 2013                               14.25                     78,639.00
 FY 2014                               15.43                     84,508.47
 FY 2015                               20.93                    125,419.22
Total:                                126.76                    673,919.24




                                                                                  43
                         Annex 5: List of Supporting Documents


   Esrey SA. Water, Waste, and Well-Being: a multicounty Study (1991). Am J Epidemiol
    143 (6) 703-708

   ENACAL, Caracterización de la Pobreza en los 27 Barrios, Repercusiones de la Pobreza
    Colecta y la Conectividad, 2014.

   ENACAL, Informe Final – Componente Social, February 2015.

   ENACAL, Plan Estratégico de Fortalecimiento Institucional 2012-2017, April 23, 2013.

   ENACAL and IADB, “Proyecto de Actualización del Plan Maestro de Alcantarillado
    Sanitario de Managua,” October 1996.

   PRASMA Project Papers, including the:
       o Project Appraisal Document
       o Implementation Status and Results Reports
       o Aide Memoires
       o Restructuring Paper

   Priuss, Annette; David Kay; Lorna Fewetrell; and Jamie Bartram (2002). Estimating the
    Burden of Disease from Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene at a Global Level.
    Environmental Health Perspectives. 110 (5).

   Water and Sanitation Program – Latin America and the Caribbean. World Bank (2012),
    Economic Impacts of Sanitation in Nicaragua. A Country Study Under the Economics of
    Sanitation Initiative.

   World Bank, Nicaragua Country Partnership Strategy, 2008-2012.

   World Bank, Nicaragua Country Partnership Strategy, 2013-2017.




                                                                                        44
                                                  Annex 6: Borrower’s Report

     ENACAL contracted an independent consultant, Guillermo Mingolla, to develop its closing
                                          report.

Evaluation of the operation’s objective, design, implementation, and operational experience

1.      As a result of PRASMA’s intervention, more than 161,000 persons28 have reliable access
to potable water and about 62,000 29 have benefitted from secure access to sanitary sewerage,
especially in Managua’s low-income neighborhoods.

2.      Through the project, ENACAL has been able to build awareness, motivate, and promote
behavioral changes in the population to encourage the construction of a new Water Culture to
achieve the rational use of water, promote care of the infrastructure for potable water and sanitation
and the sustainability of the services provided to the population.

3.      Along with the water and sanitation works, PRASMA executed a series of activities to
strengthen the principal directorates and offices of ENACAL to improve their technical and
marketing efficiency.

4.       The Department of Non-Revenue Water (DANF) was established with the objective of
introducing a new strategy for planning of the works and for technical and business management,
in order to improve this important factor for the company’s sustainability and for improving service.
During the project, personnel were trained, the need for specialized teams and personnel was met,
initiatives of this work team were supported, and best practices for reducing non-revenue water
were disseminated throughout the enterprise.

5.      The Community Management Office (Special Department for Community Management)
was established as part of the structure of the Business Office and existed while the project was in
execution. With PRASMA, this office changed its objective to lead the social work of the project’s
works, implementing new methodologies that ENACAL could use in the future.

6.       The matrix of results indicators for monitoring program execution was developed, focusing
on the four principal expected outcomes: (i) improvement in reliable water supply service; (ii)
improvement in effective coverage of sanitary sewerage; (iii) increase in ENACAL’s cost recovery
ratio; and (iv) annual revenue, in absolute terms.

7.      As a consequence of PRASMA, the main experiences and results that have been
incorporated in ENACAL’s practice are:

28
   Based on the methodology for calculation accepted by the World Bank in the Monitoring of Results in January 2015: Number of
potable water connections in greater Managua, multiplied by the number of persons per household, multiplied by the index of service
of 16 hours or more per day, less beneficiaries in the baseline (202,255*5.2294*0.694-572,129=161,896). The service index of 16
hours or more is validated in Appendix 7 of the Aide-Memoire of the World Bank’s Supervision Mission from October 20 to 24,
2014, Appendix 7.
29
   Based on the methodology for calculation accepted by the World Bank in the Monitoring of Results in January 2015: Number of
connections built in the 27 neighborhoods multiplied by the by the final rate of connectivity, plus 103 connections built in Lomas de
Guadalupe, plus the number of connections built in Bello Amanecer multiplied by the rate of connectivity in January 2015, and all
multiplied by the number of persons per household, less beneficiaries in the baseline (17,406*0.73+103+2,207*0.07)*5.2294-
5,715=62,295. The rate of connectivity of the 27 neighborhoods is validated by the Report on Analysis and Consolidation of the
Statistical Information of PRASMA, by Consultant Karla Arriola in February 2015, in Chapter 7 “Analysis of connectivity to th e
public sanitary sewerage network obtained from the four sources of information,” Table 24, and Chapter 8 “Conclusions.”

                                                                                                                                   45
      -   Social and environmental methodology: The Integrated Water and Human Sanitation
          Sector Program (PISASH), which is being implemented in 19 cities in the interior of
          Nicaragua, uses PRASMA’s social and environmental methodology. Also, the territorial
          structure in the departments of family health and life (Citizen Power) implemented in the
          project have been adopted today by ENACAL and by the PISASH because of their success.
      -   Condominial sewerage networks: One of PRASMA’s major innovations has been the
          implementation of the condominial sewerage networks. To do this, it was first necessary
          to change the regulations for construction of networks in the country, incorporating the
          new technology, the new design parameters, and the specific methodology of community
          intervention.
      -   Non-revenue water methodology: The methodology, which has been thoroughly
          implanted in the company, will henceforth be carried out by DANF (a department that was
          established as part of the PRASMA activities). New investments and the operation in
          ENACAL already incorporate this new work method. A program for monitoring the
          indicators is in the final stage of implementation, and the company has identified 53 official
          indicators. Single indicators will be used to prevent differences in information from the
          areas.
      -   Methodology for monitoring business indicators: Similarly, the methodology for
          improving business management established in the program is now a habitual practice in
          the Business Office.
      -   Improvements in ENACAL’s structure: The organization chart has changed
          substantially, with two main areas under the Office of the Executive President: General
          Management and Financial-Administrative Management. This is an important step for the
          company’s governance. In addition, since 2013 there has been a capacity-building process
          and an organizational, operational, and financial management model that permits it to
          advance toward its seven strategic objectives defined with support from the GIZ consultant.
          The project management structure has changed, with the project and investment area raised
          from department to management level. Project and Investment Management now has three
          departments: Pre-investment, Execution of Works, and Monitoring and Control.

Evaluation of the results of the operation vis-à-vis the agreed-upon objectives and indicators

8.       In terms of investment, the results have been satisfactory, because the planned investments
have been made, with full disbursement of the funds to finance them, and ENACAL has contributed
funds not originally anticipated.
9.       With respect to the number and type of beneficiaries, the objectives have been surpassed,
so the result is also highly satisfactory.

10.       According to the project results indicators, three of the four objectives have been met:
      o   Indicator A: Number of additional beneficiaries with access to reliable water supply in the
          targeted neighborhoods (difference in the number of persons with at least 16 hours of water
          per day)
               Target: 150,000
               Value achieved: 161,896 TARGET EXCEEDED
      o   Indicator B: Number of additional beneficiaries with access to improved sanitation
          services in the targeted neighborhoods (difference in the number of persons with sewerage
          connections)
               Target: 54,830
               Value achieved: 62,295 TARGET EXCEEDED


                                                                                                     46
      o   Indicator C: Increase in ENACAL’s cost recovery ratio (revenue over operating expenses)
              Target: 1
              Value achieved: 0.64 TARGET NOT REACHED
      o   Indicator D: Revenue (Total revenue at the level of Managua)
              Target: 750,000,000
              Value achieved: 849,317,878 TARGET EXCEEDED

11.     In institutional terms, the results have been satisfactory because ENACAL was
strengthened with new procedures and areas functioning more efficiently with personnel that were
with the project and continued working for the company or the PISASH.

12.     An important change in the implementation of the project is the construction of the new
module and rehabilitation of the existing module of the waste water treatment plant in Sandino
City, which originally had not been planned.

13.     The project’s principal accomplishments can be grouped in four aspects: (i) Improvements
in service and expansion of infrastructure, (ii) Institutional changes and new strategy for W&S
management, (iii) Introduction of methodology for ENACAL’s investments, and (iv) Impacts on
the social environment.

  i.    Improvements in service and expansion of infrastructure
-   Increase in the coverage and continuity of water and sewer services with emphasis on the poor
    neighborhoods (indicators A and B, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3).
- Significant improvement in revenue (indicator D), of the volume metered (indicator 2.2) and
    the number of illegal connections regularized (indicator 2.4)
    o Progress in the campaign to encourage collection. Collection in 2014 was 15 percent
        greater than in 2013. The annual volume billed increased from 82 million m3 in 2011 to 94
        million m3 at the end of 2014.
    o Payment agreements. ENACAL has intensified work related to the signing of payment
        agreements, and the ratio of clients with payment agreements / clients at least four months
        in arrears increased from 2 percent in 2011 to 16 percent in 2014.
    o Micro-metering. In this regard, ENACAL increased the number of meters installed from
        347,922 in 2009 to 443,313 at the end of 2014.
- Important work to improve service in the four macro sectors, construction of infrastructure (Las
    Pilas tank, Seminario tank, adduction lines, pumping equipment, and control units). The
    number of hours of service for Managua has increased in recent years. In 2010, 53.9 percent of
    the population had at least 16 hours of service. This indicator rose to 63.9 percent for 2012,
    69.4 percent for 2013, and 71 percent by the end of the project. The main reasons that
    contributed to this increase in reliability are:
         Improvement of the infrastructure
         Management of pressure
         Control of leakage
         Shorter time for repair of leakage
- Construction of the wastewater treatment plant in Sandino City.

    ii.    Institutional changes and new strategy for W&S management
-      Establishment and strengthening of the DANF with work procedures and trained personnel, to
       improve continuity of service and establish a methodology for extrapolating this experience to
       the whole country.


                                                                                                  47
-      New strategy for Business Management, which helped to increase revenue significantly, and
       methodology for installation of meters.
-      New approach for community and environmental management.
-      Implementation of the condominial sewerage system brought about a change in the country’s
       regulations and introduction of an alternative technology in the company. This system permits
       better adaptation to the differing physical situations in the neighborhoods, extending service to
       more people because of the savings achieved.
-      Introduction of a new planning philosophy and prioritizing investments for the company’s
       sustainability and the expansion of service to the neediest.
-      Implementation of monitoring tools such as the Score Card and the results matrix.

    iii.   Introduction of methodology for ENACAL’s investments

14.   PRASMA’s progress has also been substantial in ENACAL’s investments through the
PISASH, which has extends to 2030.

15.     During the process of execution of the works, the PISASH adopted the whole social work
and environmental methodology, including the possibility of using condominial technology, the
work method for reducing non-revenue water through work in macro sectors (macro and micro
metering) and the relationship model and agreements with the city governments. The global
operations plan’s indicator matrices are based on PRASMA’s.


16.     The lessons learned will also be useful for improving work at the pre-investment stage
through an in-house area (the Pre-investment Department) that will be responsible for preparing
the basic documents, conditions, bidding documents, studies, final designs, and terms of reference.
During the implementation of the PISASH phase I a consultant firm, AT1, was hired to strengthen
capacity in the areas of pre-investment, supervision of works, and monitoring and control.
Similarly, there are plans to improve the materials used, based on PRASMA’s experience.

    iv.    Impacts on the social environment

17.      Thanks to the project’s works and the social work done, there have been positive impacts
in the target areas, with a substantial improvement in the quality of life of the inhabitants. These
impacts can be summarized in the following points:
- Change of hygiene habits.
- Promotion of internal improvements in homes with construction of sanitation modules.
- Changes in neighborhood infrastructure (pavement, sidewalks, waste management, and
     illumination), thanks to coordinated intervention with the Municipality.
- Families resettled in much better housing than they had before the works.

Evaluation of ENACAL’s performance during the preparation and implementation of the
operation, with special emphasis on lessons learned that could be useful in the future

18.     ENACAL has demonstrated commitment, determination, and response capability in the
project’s execution.

19.     Specifically, at the end of the project it executed important works on its own initiative,
providing personnel and financial resources.



                                                                                                     48
20.      The company’s principal weakness is its organizational structure—albeit improved thanks
to PRASMA—that still needs significant adjustments to facilitate empowerment, teamwork, and
less internal bureaucracy. During the process of capacity building and preparation of the Strategic
Plan for 2013-2017, ENACAL has been working on the structure of operational units and the
execution of projects for proper delegation of responsibilities. More emphasis must be placed on
personnel training and performance evaluation to improve the organizational culture and complete
and strengthen the regulations for the operational and administrative activities.

21.       ENACAL’s main challenge is the sustainability of the operation and the infrastructure.

22.     The preparation of the project (pre-investment phase) was the most critical phase and the
one that provided the most lessons learned.

23.     It will be extremely important to ensure preventive maintenance of the works and goods
received from the program.
24.     Project staff and consultants were well selected and used in the project. This is evident
because 20 of the 36 PRASMA consultants are still connected in a different manner with ENACAL
and the PISASH.

The principal lessons learned can be summarized as follows:
- Coordination of works stages in the implementation of condominial sewerage in Bello
   Amanecer: The number of condominial sewerage connections was smaller than usually
   expected because it was not possible to coordinate the completion of the works for the plant
   and collectors before starting to build the branches and household connections. In a future
   project the activities should be coordinated, starting with works to ensure the immediate
   operation of the sewerage (first the plant, then the collectors, followed by the networks, and
   finally the connections).
- Plumber: The experience with the plumbers trained to provide service in the 27 neighborhoods
   and Bello Amanecer was unsatisfactory because they did not promote connections of all
   residents in their respective neighborhoods as expected. To obviate this problem in a possible
   future project it will be necessary to ensure that they are better selected, recruited, and trained.

Commercial Department:

      -   Implementation of the strategy to increase collection, deepening and expanding massively
          the vision already adopted.
      -   Strengthening of the strategy of signing agreements for segments so that in the medium
          term a payment culture is instilled in ENACAL’s clients.
      -   Maintaining of the criteria for the installation of meters, considering the type of client and
          the correlation between meters installed, clients, and m3 billed for difference in reading.
      -   Introduction of improvements in the meter-reading process.

DPI (water supply and sewerage works)

25.    One opportunity for improvement is a change the materials used for water30 and sewer31
networks. PRASMA has continued to use the same technology used previously in the country.
DGO

30
   For example, potable water connections were made with PVC without considering PEAD, which was already widely available in
the market (for both networks and connections).
31
   For example, manholes were made with adobe blocks, without considering pre-molded materials that were widely available.

                                                                                                                           49
26.      It is necessary to increase the operational capacity for preventive and corrective
maintenance of the sewer networks. This includes procurement of heavy equipment such as
suction-pressure (Vector) and manual equipment such as hydrojet connected to garden faucets or
rotorooters. ENACAL has included provisions in its budget for preventive and corrective
maintenance of the sewer systems. This experience is being used in the PISASH, which includes—
in addition to the investments in water and sanitation works—resources for the procurement of
special equipment to permit decentralized maintenance.

ANF

27.     Best international practices indicate that if the problem is not addressed in sectors that are
measured and permanently monitored, the results of the interventions will not be capitalized and
unfortunately wasted. The PISASH program, already in execution, demonstrates this. The 19 cities
included in this program have sectors in their networks.

28.     It is necessary to establish special operating units to deal exclusively with the areas already
organized in sectors (65 Wasser microsectors and new PRASMA microsectors). The DANF was
created, and one of its functions is to optimize the microsectors established by Wasser plus the 31
from PRASMA. For more effective optimization of these microsectors, more staff is being added
to the DANF.

29.     It is also necessary to have complete and precise macrometering of Managua’s total
production soon, including the pumping of Asosozca. Without a production volume based on
physical metering, it will be difficult to have a real indicator of water losses in Managua. In
addition, it is essential to start replacing mechanical macrometers with electromagnetic or
ultrasonic ones that are more accurate and versatile. It is impossible to manage what is not correctly
metered. ENACAL’s Executive President authorized the purchase of the macrometers needed to
complete 100 percent of the macrometering of the water sources in Managua. This procurement
includes insertion flow meters with pulse emitters for real-time monitoring of production at the
most important sources (well fields).

Framework indicators
30.     The framework of project indicators and the Score Card have proven to be useful tools for
orienting actions for strategic results. ENACAL still has the challenge of continuing and improving
the practice of the Score Card.

Procurement area
31.      Owing to a complex situation in the selection of contractors, which occurred at the
program’s start and precluded the execution of works for nine neighborhoods, it has been necessary
to revise ENACAL’s structure and procedures.

32.    The hiring of a procurement specialist for PRASMA, working within the structure of the
department of acquisitions and imports, is considered by ENACAL to be a successful practice.
However, in the PISASH project the specialist will work within the project structure

Financial management
33.     There was a negative impact (financial deficit) in PRASMA owing to exchange variations
in the Special Drawing Rights (XDR) and the exchange differential for payments to contractors in
local currency.


                                                                                                    50
34.      This was due to a restriction on making direct payments of less than US$200,000.00, since
most of them were below that amount.
35.      This experience of ENACAL has led the PISASH to make payments in the following
manner:
- Direct payments according to the amounts established in the agreements, and
- From the Central Bank of Nicaragua in foreign currency (dollars).

Evaluation of the performance of the Bank, the co-financers, or other partners during the
preparation and implementation of the operation, including the effectiveness of their
relations, with special emphasis on lessons learned

36.      In general terms, according to officials interviewed in ENACAL and PRASMA, the Bank’s
activity in all stages of the project has been satisfactory.

37.    They especially appreciated the technical assistance by external consultants hired by the
Bank, who have cooperated in the processes of change and introduction of the new work
methodology.

38.     One factor in PRASMA’s success has been building on good prior experiences, in the
valuable planning instruments used by ENACAL and in coordination with other donors (such as
the master plan developed with the support of JICA [the Japanese International Cooperation
Agency]), without having to start from scratch.

39.     Similarly, looking ahead, through the PISASH, which is financed by the IDB, Spanish
Cooperation, the European Union (LAIF), the European Investment Bank, and the Central
American Bank for Economic Integration, ENACAL is incorporating the lessons learned and the
best practices of PRASMA.

Description of the measures proposed for future operation and maintenance of the project

40.     The main opportunities for improvement are in the pre-investment stage, and they are
applicable to all stakeholders who have intervened in the project, i.e., ENACAL, the UCP within
the company, and also the Bank. With better-sized pre-investment, it will be possible in the future
to optimize the technical and financial results, the execution times, and the project’s overall
efficiency.

41.     The availability of a procurement benchmark from the Bank in the country or region could
be extremely useful for accelerating the processes and making them more efficient in a possible
future project.




                                                                                                51
Annex 7: Map




               1
