Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15896
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
(LOAN 2669-ME)
July 3, 1996
Environment and Natural Resources Leadership Group
Mexico Country Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in (he performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit                                              New Mexican Peso (N$)
US$1.00                                                    Mex$367 (December 1985)
US$1.00                                                    N$7.58 (July 2, 1996)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 3 1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
One Hectare (ha)                 = 10,000 square meters
One Metric Ton (mt)              = 2,200 pounds
One Metric Ton (mt)              = 1,000 kg
One Kilometer (km)               = 0.6215 miles
One Kilometer (km)               = 1,000 meters
One Cubic Meter (m3)             = 1,000 liters
One Liter                        = 1,000 milliliters
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BANOBRAS            Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos
(National Development Bank for Public Works and Services)
FORTAMUN            Programa para Fortalecimiento Municipal
(Municipal Strengthening Program)
PFPA                Procuraduria Federal de Protecci6n del Ambiente
(Office of the Attorney General for the Protection of the
Environment)
SEDESOL             Secretaria de Desarrollo Social
(Secretariat for Social Development)
SEDUE               Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia
(Secretariat for Urban Development and Ecology)
SHCP                Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito P[blico
(Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit)
TCU                 Technical Coordination Unit



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
(Loan 2669-ME)
Table of Contents
Preface ..............................................i
Evaluation Summary ...............................................                                  i-iv
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I        .  Introduction   ................................................1
2. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ................................................                I
3. Achievement of Objectives ...............................................3
4. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ........................................... . 6
5. Project Sustainability ................................................7
6. Bank Performance ................................................7
7. Borrower Performance ...............................................8
8. Assessment of Outcome ...............................................9
9. Future Operation ................................................                                 10
10. Key Lessons Learned .................................................                            10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:        Summary of Assessments
Table 2:       Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:       Project Timetable
Table 4:        Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:        Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:       Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:        Studies Included in the Project
Table 8:       Project Costs
Table 9:       Project Financing
Table 10:      Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 11:       Status of Legal Covenants
Table 12:       Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 13:      Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 14:      Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDICES
A.      Aide-Memoire of Mission
B.     Borrower's Final Implementation Report
T,s document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
(Loan 2669-ME)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Solid Waste Management
Pilot Project in Mexico, for which Loan 2669-ME in the amount of US$25.0 million equivalent
was approved on March 25, 1986 and made effective on September 10, 1986.
The Loan was closed on June 30, 1995. Final disbursement took place on October 11,
1995, at which time a balance of US$7.3 million was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by John Stein (Task Manager) supported by Edgard Martinez
(Consultant) and reviewed by Theodore Nkodo (Sector Leader) of the Environment and
Natural Resources Sector Leadership Group of the Latin America and Caribbean Region.
Preparation of this ICR was begun with a mission of the consultant to Mexico during
the Bank's final supervision/completion mission in July 1995. The mission's Aide Memoire is
included as Appendix A. The ICR is based on material in the project file and discussions with
Bank staff and representatives of the Borrower. The Borrower contributed to the preparation
of this ICR by submitting a Final Implementation Report on the project with an evaluation of
the project's execution which is included as Appendix B.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
(Loan 2669-ME)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    Urbanization has been expanding at a rapid rate in Mexico, with growth especially
strong in many intermediate and secondary cities. The increasing need for providing more
extensive urban services, combined with the ongoing process of decentralization, has placed
significant demands on local authorities. The solid waste subsector was, and remains, largely
undeveloped and is an important source of environmental concern. With collection, transfer
and disposal of solid waste inadequate in most Mexican cities, the Government sought the
Bank's support in the mid 1980s for a pilot effort to develop policy and strategy for the
subsector and assist municipalities to improve service provision. The project was to build on
the approach utilized for the water sector of directed credit through Mexico's urban
infrastructure Bank (BANOBRAS), with technical support from SEDUE, the Secretariat for
Urban Development and Ecology (now SEDESOL). This dialogue resulted in a Bank loan of
US$25 million equivalent, approved in March 1996, for the Solid Waste Management Pilot
Project (Loan 2669-ME).
Project Objectives
2.    The stated objectives of the project were to: (i) assist the Government to more clearly
define subsector objectives and policies and develop national and local institutional capabilities
to improve subsector management; (ii) improve subsector services through
pilot/demonstration subprojects; (iii) reduce public health risks and improve environmental
conditions in selected cities; (iv) test and evaluate alternatives for promoting cost savings,
providing training and channeling funds in the subsector; (v) help national and local
governments to fully understand solid management costs and to develop a basis for cost
recovery of solid waste services; and (vi) provide an adequate basis for preparing full-scale
solid waste management improvement projects. The project's objectives were appropriate to the
subsector at its stage of development and in the context of Mexico's decentralization process.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The project was modestly successful in heightening the awareness of policy makers
and national and local government officials within Mexico of the issues involved in managing
the solid waste subsector. It also was effective in defining policies for the subsector and
preparing full-scale integrated solid waste management plans which were supported by a



ii
follow up project with the Bank. The project did not significantly improve the operations of
the solid waste subsector or environmental conditions, nor did it develop replicable models for
solid waste management or cost recovery. Most of the risks identified at appraisal materialized
during implementation. Coordination remained poor between the project units in SEDUE and
BANOBRAS. Multiple financing windows at the federal level competed with the project's
financing which led to lower demand for subloans. Demand was also reduced during periods of
economic difficulties accompanied by high interest rates, and public expenditure cuts which made
counterpart funds scarce. Only two of the original eight municipalities evaluated in the Staff
Appraisal Report (Monterrey and Merida) ended up participating in the project. Monterrey, which
was the largest subproject financed, accounted for 34% of total costs of the pilot component. The
change in interest of cities originally selected for the project was due to both difficult economic
conditions in Mexico and changes in local government administrations that affected investment
priorities. Subsequently, other subprojects had to be found and evaluated to replace them.
4.    Slow progress in the development of a framework of adequate regulations and their
enforcement for solid waste management at the federal, state and local levels, and the inability
to obtain sufficient technical and managerial capacity in solid waste operations, including the
participation of the private sector, are the most significant factors in the failure to improve
subsector performance. Municipalities are wholly responsible for solid waste management as
defined in the Mexican constitution. Thus, federal enforcement is minimal and is largely
indirect, occurring through regulations governing toxic emissions such as leachates and
methane gas. Even this area has not received sufficient enforcement attention from the federal
environmental enforcement officials.
5.    The Bank's performance during preparation and appraisal was generally satisfactory.
During supervision it was less effective. The Bank correctly highlighted the sector policy
issues, and a considerable unanimity of views was developed between the Bank, the
Government and the sector institutions on the problems of municipal solid waste development
that were to be addressed by the project. Cost recovery, however, was not given sufficient
weight in individual subproject design, which later became the major factor impeding the
sustainability of the investments financed. The Bank's supervision effort was, on balance,
deficient, owing to frequent task manager and staff turnover, short duration and infrequent
missions, and an insufficient field presence despite the local nature of many implementation
difficulties and the project's decentralized focus. Supervision was strengthened once the project
entered problem project status and an agreement was reached with the Government to develop a
more effective approach based on the lessons learned from the pilot.
6.    Borrower performance was generally unsatisfactory, affected through much of the
implementation period by inadequate counterpart funding and, consequently, insufficient staffing in
the Technical Coordination Unit (TCU) in SEDUE. Organizational and coordination problems
plagued the project beginning shortly after loan effectiveness. It was never clear which agency was
responsible for technical quality and the financial soundness of the proposed investment schemes
since SEDUE's and BANOBRAS' responsibilities overlapped. Neither the Borrower nor the
executing agency devoted adequate resources to the supervision of the subprojects. Reliance on
SEDUE/SEDESOL and BANOBRAS field personnel was made difficult by the frequent mismatch



iii
between the skills of such personnel and the needs of the project. Many of the state delegates of
BANOBRAS and SEDESOL were political appointees and were not supported by technical staff.
Summary of Findings, Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
7.    It is unlikely that improvements introduced by the project will be sustainable, and the
outcome of the project must be judged as unsatisfactory. The 14 investment subprojects
financed under the project have had mixed results, due in large part to the unresolved issues facing
the sector and to local difficulties, especially because of changes in administration, in instituting
serious financial and technical reform. The project was not successful in helping local governments
to filly understand and develop a basis for cost recovery of solid waste services. All participating
municipalities were able to attain some degree of improvement in their collection service, but again,
the lack of proper cost recovery schemes as well as ongoing issues of municipal overstaffing,
poorly designed collection routes and inadequate community participation have undermined the
potential for success. On the positive side, public awareness campaigns organized under the
national component were effective in spurring waste reduction in Queretaro, Monterrey, Mazatlan,
Chihuahua and Tequisquiapan. Some of the public education campaigns which were organized
have generated some cost-savings by reducing the need to clean clandestine dumps and streets.
8.    The project was more successful in laying the basis for a more intensive dialogue on the
sector with the Bank and for development of a second project (Second Solid Waste Management
Project - Loan 3752-ME) which addressed the deficiencies of the pilot project. The experience
with the pilot project was essential for defining the core approach of the second project which
included: an integrated approach to investment with integrated plans prepared for 25 cities; support
for development of standards and regulations for solid waste management at the federal, state and
local levels; the requirement for sound cost recovery once investments were completed; and the
incorporation of the social aspects of solid waste management -- i.e. scavengers -- into investment
designs. Unfortunately, the occurrence of another economic crisis in late 1994, which resulted
again in a cycle of limited counterpart funds, high interest rates, and reduced borrowing capacity by
municipalities, raises questions about the desirability of attempting to tackle the problem of
municipal services and environmental protection through projects whose frameworks are national
in scope and depend on a coincidence of interests and approach of federal agencies and local
authorities. An alternative arrangement of dealing with individual municipalities/cities would likely
be preferable although this approach had not be selected in the past due to the advantage of scale,
the disadvantage of higher transaction costs for the Bank, and the current extemal borrowing
policy of Mexico which requires the federal govermment to be the borrower of external funds.
9.    There are five main lessons learned from  project execution.  First, complex
institutional arrangements, which have impeded the success of many Bank projects, should be
avoided in project design. Multiple agency involvement dilutes the focus of accountability and
subjects the project to competing agendas and objectives that better coordination does not
necessarily solve. Second, the Bank will need to develop stronger relationships with clients at the
local level in order to become more effective. The use of federal agencies to assist local
govemments has not been an effective means to tackle this problem. Third, a comprehensive,
rather than piecemeal, approach must be taken in modernizing municipal solid waste systems.



iv
The pilot project's ultimate focus mainly on physical investments resulted in most investments
being unsustainable, ignoring important financial, environmental and social impacts. Fourth,
the introduction of cost recovery practices is essential to guarantee adequate resources for
operations and maintenance, and to contribute to investment. Without such schemes in place,
attracting the private sector for both management expertise and investment financing will not
be achieved as the current situation in Mexico today demonstrates. Fifth, without some type
of enforcement pressure, municipalities will be prone to continue to muddle along with the
quality of existing solid waste services. Public clamor for better services has not yet reached a
high enough pitch to prompt change. The federal government will need to strengthen its
enforcement efforts in parallel to the strengthening of enforcement by agencies at the state
level. To be effective, such controls will require a harmonized system of regulation among all
levels of government.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
(Loan 2669-ME)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    Urbanization in Mexico has been expanding at a fast rate, with over 60% of the population
living in urban areas. Growth rates have been particularly sharp in many intermediate and
secondary cities. Growing demand for urban services combined with continuing reforms to
enhance the participation of local governments in the provision of these services and in the
protection of the environment, have placed increasing responsibility on municipalities. A key
subsector where service provision has remained undeveloped and environmental impacts have
become significant is solid waste management.
2.    Collection, transfer and disposal of solid waste are inadequate in most cities in Mexico. Of
the solid waste generated (over 60,000 tons per day), it is estimated (1994) that only two percent
is disposed of properly, mainly due to poor management or absence of sanitary landfills. The
principal impediments to development of the subsector have been: weak institutions at the federal,
state and local levels; limited availability of professional staff with adequate technical, financial
and managerial skills; an undeveloped regulatory framework and inadequate analysis and
monitoring of environmental impacts of solid waste investments; insufficient service coverage and
lack of controlled final disposal which has led to clandestine dumping; and little or no cost
recovery to maintain sustainable operations or contribute to investment.
3.    Building on the approach developed for the water sector which appeared to yield positive
results, i.e. directed credit to municipalities through Mexico's development bank for urban
infrastructure (Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Pzublicos - BANOBRAS) supported by the
relevant federal technical agency, the Government requested the support of the Bank to initiate a
similar pilot effort to assist municipalities in managing solid waste services through the Solid
Waste Management Pilot Project (Loan 2669-ME). The project was supported with a Bank loan
of US$25 million equivalent, approved in 1986.
Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
4.    The project's objectives were to:
(a) assist the Government to more clearly define subsector objectives and policies and
develop national and local institutional capabilities to improve subsector management;



2
(b) improve subsector services through pilot/demonstration subprojects;
(c) reduce public health risks and improve environmental conditions in selected cities;
(d) test and evaluate alternatives for promoting cost savings, providing training and
channeling funds in the subsector;
(e) help national and local governments to fully understand solid management costs and to
develop a basis for cost recovery of solid waste services; and
(f) provide an adequate basis for preparing full-scale solid waste management
improvement projects.
5.    The project's objectives were to be met through two components:
•  Pilot component. This component, originally representing 68% of the loan, was to
finance pilot subprojects in a group of eight preselected cities, each designed to
improve operations and environmental protection, reduce costs, and increase
efficiency. The subprojects were to finance civil works, equipment, and materials,
training and technical assistance for: (a) improved repair and maintenance facilities and
systems; (b) low-cost collection systems for markets and marginal zones; (c)
construction of a regional sanitary landfill; (d) industrial waste disposal
sites/cemeteries, (e) the improvement of institutional, financial and organizational
arrangements; (f) the development of public education programs; (h) three regional
transfer stations and sanitary landfills for the establishment of a metropolitan waste
management enterprise; and (i) studies on the economic and technical viability of
employing composting, mass burning and/or refuse-derived fuel systems of resource
recovery.
*  National component. This component would finance: (a) technical assistance and
equipment to strengthen the Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia - SEDUE; (b)
generic studies to define options and solutions to solve the fundamental problems,
issues, and needs of the solid waste management subsector; (c) the development of
plans and preparation of prefeasibility studies in 26 cities; and (d) preparation of a
future project.
6.    SEDUE (becoming part of the Secreataria de Desarrollo Social - SEDESOL in 1992) was the
federal technical agency for the project. Project responsibility was assigned to a technical coordination
unit (TCU) established within SEDUE. The TCU was responsible for overall project supervision,
monitoring and coordination. BANOBRAS was the financial agency preparing and approving
subloans for specific subprojects. Municipalities, which were the beneficiaries, executed subprojects
with assistance from consultants and the TCU. The disbursement period established was long at eight
years, anticipating the time required to carry out the pilot activities.



3
7.    There were no modifications made to the objectives during project implementation. However,
only two of the original eight municipalities evaluated in the Staff Appraisal Report (Monterrey and
Merida) ended up participating in the project. Monterrey, which was the largest subproject financed,
accounted for 34% of total costs of the pilot component. The change in interest of cities originally
selected for the project was due to both difficult economic conditions in Mexico and changes in local
government admninistrations that affected investment priorities. Subsequently, other subprojects had to
be found and evaluated to replace them. The objectives were appropriate to the subsector at its stage
of development and in the context of Mexico's decentralization process.
8.    In retrospect, the risks identified during appraisal were significant in limiting successful
implementation of the Solid Waste Management Pilot Project and achieving the project's objectives.
These risks included: (a) possible implementation delays due to the need for close cooperation among
several entities and the difficulty of coordinating the many project activities and (b) the possible
unwillingness or inability of the beneficiaries to borrow on the proposed terms and conditions. The
preparation and appraisal teams from the Bank sought to alleviate these risks by (i) clearly defining the
participants' responsibilities; (ii) providing intensive technical assistance; (iii) making reporting and
monitoring provisions; and (iv) requesting written commitments from beneficiaries showing their
willingness to accept the terms of the subloans. These actions were not enough and most of the risks
materialized. Coordination remained poor between the project units in SEDUE and BANOBRAS,
with some improvement after SEDUE's reorganization in 1992. Multiple financing windows at the
federal level competed with the project's financing which led to lower demand for subloans. Demand
was also reduced during periods of high interest rates and when Government public expenditure was
cut making counterpart funds scarce.
Achievement of Objectives
9.    The project was modestly successful in heightening the awareness of policy makers and
national and local government officials within Mexico of the issues involved in managing the solid
waste subsector. It also was effective in defining policies for the subsector and preparing full-
scale integrated solid waste management plans which were supported by a follow up project with
the Bank. The project did not significantly improve the operations of the solid waste subsector or
environmental conditions, nor did it develop replicable models for solid waste management or
cost recovery. Many of the project's specific shortcomings were identified and addressed in the
design of a follow-up project, the Second Solid Waste Management Project (Loan 3752-ME,
approved June 1994). Activities under the pilot project were deliberately slowed down by 1993
to ensure the application of the new approach formulated under the second project. Consequently,
US$7.3 million was canceled in October 1995. In spite of the new operation, the sustainability of
investments in the Mexican solid waste subsector remains elusive at this date, worsened by the
December 1994 economic crisis.
10.   Slow progress in the development of a framework of adequate regulations and, their
enforcement for solid waste management at the federal and state levels and the inability to obtain
sufficient technical and managerial capacity in solid waste operations, including the participation
of the private sector, are the most significant factors in the failure to improve subsector
performance. Municipalities are wholly responsible for solid waste management as defined in the



4
Mexican constitution. Thus federal enforcement is minimal and is largely indirect, occurring
through regulations governing toxic emissions such as leachates and methane gas. Even this area
has not received enforcement attention from the federal environmental enforcement agency
(Procuraduria Federal de Protecci6n del Ambiente - PFPA).
11.    Pilot Component. The pilot component of the project provided financing for 14 subprojects,
with the goal of improving municipal solid waste operations and environmental conditions in the target
cities. While some subprojects did provide and improve/repair facilities (including the design and
construction of industrial waste disposal sites, sanitary landfills and transfer stations), it is unlikely that
these investments are sustainable (See Table A). Of the ten sanitary landfills constructed under the
project, only three operate as true sanitary landfills -- the rest all show operational problems or
deficiencies due to faulty construction and poor management practices.
12.   The project was also not successful in helping local governments to fully understand the need
for and to develop sound cost recovery policies for solid waste services. Cost recovery systems were
largely ineffective and were usually based on charges to the commercial sector. The lack of resources
quickly led to service deterioration and poor maintenance of infrastructure. For both political and
technical reasons, municipalities found it difficult to approve, implement and update tariffs for solid
waste collection and disposal, particularly in residential areas, despite initial accords to implement cost-
recovery schemes. In several municipalities, tariff schemes were introduced only to be abandoned soon
thereafter due to political reasons, which included difficulties in getting support from the state officials.
There was also a lack of understanding of local willingness and capacity to pay for services. One
exception to this general failure is the subproject in Chihuahua, which was the only municipality to
achieve any degree of success in implementing a cost recovery scheme. Difficulties were also
encountered at the state level, mainly with the state legislatures, to approve the setting and the
modifications of tariffs, which was often costless politically because responsibility for service delivery
and quality remained with the municipalities.
13.   Other factors affected the success of the pilot component as well. The existence of other
financing windows, including grant programs, with more attractive terns reduced demand for
onlending under Loan 2669-ME. Some localities also took advantage of the grant element of the
project to finance first priority investments, discontinuing implementation prior to receiving a
subloan.  Investments were often piecemeal, leaving portions of the solid waste system
untouched, for example purchasing new collection vehicles but not addressing final disposal
practices.
14.   Finally, the pilot component did not specifically confront one of the most difficult aspects of
solid waste management in Mexico, which is the presence of pepenadores (scavengers) in most
municipal systems of solid waste collection and disposal. It is estimated that 25,000 garbage
scavengers and their families work, and in some cases, reside in the open dumps of Mexican cities, with
about half concentrated in Mexico City. The subprojects financed under the pilot project did not
address the scavenger issue. The first investment subproject in Durango for a sanitary landfill was
made ineffective following the arrival of a new municipal administration which opened up the landfill to
scavenging operations, quickly converting it into an open dump. Studies prepared under the national



5
component of the project led to the design of a social component in the second project that
incorporated thepepenadores in proposed system modernization.
Table A: Municipal Subproject Indicators
State    Miurdpuly      nklpl    Cast    Caminmy   Sheed    CaJkdtoa.    S_ty -Trtl
(ttbI'lawu    Pvpoiolts  R   r rv.wy   ParWL   chuwJ*tg     mpt.   S t W 
(thouamd)   Scheme
Durango    Durango (2)       348.1    No         No        Yes        Yes       No       No        No
Sinaloa    Culiacan          600.0    No         No        Yes        Yes       No       Yes       No
Sinaloa    Mazatlan          600.0    No         No        Yes        Yes       No       Yes       No
Yucatan    Merida            600.0    No       Limited*    No         Yes       No       No       Yes
Nayarit    Tepic             209.0    No      Limited**    Yes        Yes       No       Yes       No
Guerrnro    Chilpancingo     140.0    No       Limited     No         Yes       No       Yes       No
Chihuahua   Chihuahua        634.0    Yes        Yes       No         Yes       Yes      Yes       No
Quintana R.  O.P. Blanco     95.0    No        Limited     No         Yes       No       Yes       No
Queretaro    Quertaro (9)     70.2    No       Limited     No         Yes       No       Yes      Yes
Queretaro    Tequisquiapan    39.7    No       Limited     No         Yes       No       Yes      Yes
Quer6taro    Corregidora      50.0    No       Limited     No         Yes       No       Yes      Yes
Queretaro   S. Juan Rio      163.4    No       Limited     No         Yes       No       Yes      Yes
Nuevo Leon  Monterrey      2,500.0    No       Limited     No         Yes       Yes      Yes       No
Total                      6,049.3
OveralihmpectofComponent              N          N          P         S         N         N        P
Key *     t    **Collectim                    Overa  ad: N = Negligible  S = Substtal  P = Pawtisl
15.    National Component. The national component of the project was partially successful in
strengthening SEDUE/SEDESOL by creating the TCU responsible for carrying out this
component, and by providing on-the-job training to augment SEDESOL's ability to assist and
advise the municipalities in technical aspects of solid waste management. However, SEDESOL's
capabilities to supervise the solid waste subprojects and to assist municipalities in project
preparation and in the construction of works still need to be strengthened. The project was more
successful in installing greater technical capacity in BANOBRAS and in creating its central solid
waste unit. The project also contributed through the national component to the accumulation of
detailed knowledge of existing systems and needs through diagnostic studies in 50 cities and integrated
solid waste management plans in 25 of them. Other studies contributing to subsector knowledge and
analysis were carried out in the areas of finance and accounting, system operating and maintenance
costs, and evaluation of options for incorporating scavengers in solid waste management systems.
16.    Monitoring Indicators and Rate of Return.   The project did not include monitoring
indicators beyond a general and simple schedule of task targets for the main steps of
implementation activities (contracting of consultants and studies). The project did not attempt a



6
rate of return calculation. Investments were to be based on least cost solutions. The limited
information available suggests that this was the case for the majority of investments.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
17.   Implementation Delays. The pilot component of the project was delayed at the beginning
of implementation, primarily due to a loss of political momentum and lack of interest at the local
level. This occurred because of: (i) changes in local government administrations; (ii) inadequate
information on startup procedures by the coordinating agencies; (iii) lack of counterpart funds;
(iv) inadequate coordination and preparedness; and (v) perceived high interest rates for onlending.
Because the Government was slow in providing the necessary counterpart funds for the project at
the beginning of its implementation, many municipalities did not know how much and when they
would receive the appropriate resources. By late 1986, due to the above factors, all but two
municipalities had dropped out of the project.
18.   Institutional Issues. A number of institutional deficiencies caused difficulties during project
implementation. As of December 1988, the national component had not shown any progress. Major
problems included: (i) delays in contracting consultants to staff the TCU of SEDUE and acquiring the
designated equipment or office space; (ii) delays on the promotion of subprojects in other cities; (iii)
additional responsibilities in SEDUE for the coordinator and staff of TCU meant that only part of their
time was allocated to the project. For most of the project, the technical group in SEDUE was staffed
at less than full strength, which constrained its supervisory ability.
19.   Limited technical, financial and managerial skills experience in the state offices of
SEDUE/SEDESOL and BANOBRAS posed serious problems throughout the implementation of the
project. In addition, municipalities did not have sufficiently qualified technical staff for preparation and
project supervision. Most of the municipalities experienced difficulties in providing their own financial
contribution to the project, and in preparing viable subprojects. Overstaffing was common in many of
the municipally-managed services and remained unaddressed. Although some municipalities tumed to
private firms in order to improve services, the municipalities had little or no experience in arranging
such contracts and monitoring compliance with contract conditions. As a result, little has been gained
from these contracts and the twin problems of regulation and cost recovery continue to impede a
greater private sector role in solid waste management.
20.   Duplication of functions and inadequate coordination between SEDUE and BANOBRAS
hampered the project's implementation.  Previously existing coordination problems between
BANOBRAS and SEDESOL prevented the project from getting off to a quick start, and jurisdictional
disputes between the Subsecretariats for Ecology and for Urban Development within SEDUE
aggravated the problem during project implementation. Institutional arrangements were gradually
strengthened with the formation of SEDESOL and the reorganizational efforts of BANOBRAS but
they also generated prolonged delays in project activities.



7
Project Sustainability
21.   The project's design as a pilot effort to assist the Govemment in developing the solid waste
subsector met with little or no success in supporting sustainable investments in municipal solid waste
services. It was more successfiul in: (i) helping the Government to define subsector strategies and
policies, including an integrated approach to investment, the requirement for sound cost recovery,
support for development of standards and regulations for solid waste management at the federal, state
and local levels, and the incorporation of the social aspects of solid waste management -- i.e.
scavengers -- into investment designs; and (ii) addressing the deficiencies encountered under the pilot
project in the areas of subproject financing and institutional coordination. The Government's efforts
were subsequently supported by the Bank as part of the Second Solid Waste Managenent Project.
Unfortunately, the occurrence of another economic crisis in late 1994, which resulted again in a cycle
of linited counterpart funds, high interest rates, and reduced borrowing capacity by municipalities,
raises questions about the desirability of attempting to tackle the problem of municipal services and
environmental protection through projects whose frameworks are national in scope and depend on a
coincidence of interests and approach of federal agencies and local authorities. An alternative
arrangement of dealing with individual municipalitieslcities would likely be preferable although this
approach had not be selected in the past due to the advantage of scale, the disadvantage of higher
transaction costs for the Bank and the current external borrowing policy of Mexico which requires the
federal government to be the borrower of external funds.
Bank Performance
22.   Preparation and Appraisal. The Bank's performance during preparation and appraisal
was generally satisfactory.   The Bank closely assisted BANOBRAS, SEDUE  and the
municipalities in the preparation of the project. The Bank correctly highlighted the subsector
policy issues, and a considerable unanimity of views was developed between the Bank, the
Government and the relevant institutions on the problems of municipal solid waste development
that were to be addressed by the project. At appraisal, the Bank paid adequate attention to the
training program for municipal staff at all levels, particularly in the areas of financial management, as a
precondition to strengthening municipal effectiveness in implementation and operational capacities. The
Bank urged BANOBRAS to accelerate its financial and institutional appraisal for each of the
participating municipalities and to embark on an urgent program of training of its key operational staff
in the area of municipal financing. Because of the increase of the project scope and the inclusion of the
Monterrey Metropolitan Area under the project, the Bank agreed to increase the original proposed
loan amount from US$15.0 million to US$25.0 million. The Bank rightly insisted in the establishment
of adequate Operating Guidelines and the receipt of the Mandate Agreement from the Ministry of
Finance (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito P,Tblico - SHCP) to BANOBRAS, thus formally
establishing the Program for the Strengthening of Municipalities (FORTAMUN) as a condition for
negotiations which set the context for operation of the project. Cost recovery, however, was not
given sufficient weight in individual subproject design, notwithstanding the project's pilot nature,
which later became the major factor impeding the sustainability of the investments financed.
23.   Supervision. The Bank's performance during supervision was less efifctive. Staff resources
devoted to supervision averaged about 12 staffweeks per year, which, while around the Bank average



8
for projects, was probably insufficient given the project's pilot nature and decentralized focus, and the
problems it faced during implementation. In general, the Bank did not fulfill the evident need for more
intense in situ supervision of the subprojects, and for encouraging closer contact by the implementing
agencies with municipal personnel, which was called for by the local nature of many implementation
difficulties. Additionally, there were frequent changes in Bank staff and task managers of the project
which led to discontinuity and a generalized tendency to let problems remain unresolved. Some
supervision missions were carried out in conjunction with the supervision of other ongoing projects,
which diluted and diverted needed attention away from Loan 2669-ME. Excluding the combined
supervision for other projects, there were a total of 14 supervision missions, which represented an
average of only 1.4 supervision missions per year. The length of these missions was also insufficient
(an average mission was one staff-week). After 1991, when the project was rated a problem project,
the number of rnissions and the quality of Bank supervision increased in conjunction with identification
and preparation of the Second Solid Waste Management Project.
Borrower Performance
24.   Borrower performance was generally unsatisfactory, affected through much of the
implementation period by inadequate counterpart funding and, consequently, insufficient staffing in the
TCU in SEDUE. Organizational and coordination problems plagued the project beginning shortly after
loan effectiveness. It was not clear which agency was responsible for technical quality and the financial
soundness of the proposed investment schemes since SEDUE's and BANOBRAS' responsibilities
overlapped. As a result, the project was behind schedule and only one subproject was approved by
BANOBRAS by the end of 1987. The national component did not show any progress until 1988. At
this time, the TCU in SEDESOL still was not ready with its staff, and had not contracted any
consultants. There were significant delays in promoting the subprojects in other cities. SEDESOL's
limited supervisory resources made it difficult to maintain leadership of project activities and to provide
a strong presence in the field.
25.   Neither the Borrower nor the executing agency devoted adequate resources to the supervision
of the subprojects. Reliance on SEDUE/SEDESOL and BANOBRAS field personnel was made
difficult by the frequent mismatch between the skills of such personnel and the needs of the project.
Many of the state delegates of BANOBRAS and SEDESOL were political appointees and were not
supported by technical staff.  The Second Solid Waste Management Project addressed these
institutional deficiencies mainly by agreeing with the Govermnent on the need for contracting by
SEDESOL of a multidisciplinary consulting firm to handle technical assistance to municipalities and the
execution of the investments. The financial analysis carried out by BANOBRAS of municipal
operations was normally not comprehensive and focused mainly on evaluating the capacity of
municipalities to absorb additional debt rather than examining the financial viability of the investments
receiving subloans. This approach was largely the result of the dependence of the municipalities on
federal government transfers which covered nearly all of the municipalities' expenditures, making such
analysis of limited usefulness, especially when combined with the guarantee BANOBRAS requires
which gives it access to such transfers in the case of nonpayment of subloans.



9
Assessment of Outcome
26.   Because of the problems noted above, the outcome of the project must be judged as
unsatisfactory. The pilot project in Mexico was the first stand-alone project in the solid waste
subsector carried out by the Bank, as most Bank interventions in solid waste took and continue to
take place, within the context of multi-sector urban development projects. As a pilot project, it
was an important first step in understanding the solid waste subsector in Mexico, and in beginning
to define relevant issues and approaches. It was also crucial to the preparation of the Second
Solid Waste Management Project. The project did not, however, improve the utilization of human
and financial resources in the solid waste subsector by strengthening institutions at the municipal
level in order to increase the delivery of affordable and efficient urban solid waste services. The
project relied upon complex institutional arrangements and placed heavy demands on
governments and implementing agencies which they could not meet. In order for the project to
have been more successful, better coordination and delineation of responsibilities were needed
among the executing agencies, BANOBRAS and SEDUE/SEDESOL, SHCP and the
municipalities and agencies involved in project implementation at both the federal and local levels.
It was clear, and is still the case today, that federal financing for the subsector does not appear to be a
high priority, which became evident when public expenditures were squeezed because of
macroeconomic pressures and the project's counterpart financing was severely reduced.
27.   The 14 investment subprojects financed under the project have had mixed results, due in large
part to the unresolved issues facing the subsector and to local difficulties, especially because of changes
in administration, in instituting serious financial and technical reform. The project was not successful in
kelping local governments to fully understand and develop a basis for cost recovery of solid waste
services. Some municipalities (Durango, Corregidora, Mazatlan) were able to introduce better
equipment maintenance and repair systems, including the establishment of adequately functioning
transfer stations through subproject financing. But the inability of these municipalities to implement
cost recovery schemes has undermined the potential benefits of these investments. All participating
municipalities were able to attain some degree of improvement in their collection service, but again, the
lack of proper cost recovery schemes as well as ongoing issues of municipal overstaffing, poorly
designed collection routes and inadequate community participation have undermined the potential for
success. On the positive side, public awareness campaigns organized under the national component
were effective in spurring waste reduction in Queretaro, Monterrey, Mazatlan, Chihuahua and
Tequisquiapan. Some of the public education campaigns which were organized have generated some
cost-savings by reducing the need to clean clandestine dumps and streets. Knowledge gained through
subprojects in Monterrey and Durango and under the studies carried out under the national component
is being disseminated to other municipalities as part of SEDESOL's program of technical assistance.
28.   The Borrower shares many of the Bank's conclusions regarding lessons learned and the
outcome of the project, seeing the deepening of subsector knowledge and the identification of
legal, administrative and operational requirements for strengthening integrated solid waste
management as the key results achieved. Impacts of the investments are seen in a somewhat more
favorable light given the expansion of collection service in the participating cities and the better
functioning subprojects in Chihuahua, Monterrey and Queretaro. The Borrower also believes that



10
the Bank should have exercised stronger supervision in the earlier years of project implementation
to address the pilot project's shortcomings.
Future Operation
29.   Most of the project-related issues were analyzed and addressed during the preparation of
the Second Solid Waste Management Project. Agreements were reached to: (i) help develop an
appropriate regulatory framework at the federal, state and local government levels; (ii) define
roles more clearly; (iii) limit competing financing and develop pari passu treatment of the different
sources of subproject financing; (iv) utilize outside consultants for the technical and subproject
evaluation work of SEDESOL; (v) apply an integrated approach to avoid piecemeal investment
and build in environmental and social impacts to the subprojects' design and evaluation; (vi)
require upfront agreement and action on cost recovery; and (vii) put in place specific monitoring
indicators in subloan agreements between BANOBRAS and the participating municipality.
Despite these agreements and a shared consensus with the Government on the second project's
design, the 1994 economic crisis has led to a similar repetition of inadequate counterpart funding
and SEDESOL and BANOBRAS' inability to promote subprojects. In late 1995, and at the
request of the Government, US$140 million of the US$200 milion of the loan amount for the second
project was canceled. Discussions are underway between the Bank and the authorities on how to
restructure the project.
Key Lessons Learned
30.   There are project and sector-related lessons. Related to the project, the main lesson is that
complex institutional arrangements should be avoided in project design.  Multiple agency
involvement dilutes the focus of accountability and subjects the project to competing agendas and
objectives that better coordination does not necessarily solve.  The distinction which was
attempted under the pilot project between the role of BANOBRAS, which evaluated and granted
the subloans, and that of SEDESOL, which was to ensure technical quality, was hard to apply in
practice.
31.   A second project-related lesson is that the Bank will need to develop stronger relationships
with clients at the local level in order to facilitate more effective and productive supervision. The
current central nature of project design and implementation does not facilitate project ownership and a
clear grasp of the issues in the solid waste subsector by some municipal officials. The use of federal
agencies to assist local governments has not been an effective means to tackle this problem.
32.   A third project-related issue is that a comprehensive, rather than piecemeal, approach must
be taken in modernizing municipal solid waste systems. The pilot project's ultimate focus mainly
on physical investments resulted in most investments being unsustainable, ignoring important
financial, environmental and social impacts.  Institution-building remains key to project
implementation success and is far less understood or shared by many government representatives.
33.   The main sector-related issue is that the introduction of cost recovery practices is essential
to guarantee adequate resources for operations and maintenance and contribute to investment



11
since even targeted federal resources can not be relied upon in times of contraction of overall
public expenditure as has been observed under both the pilot and the second solid waste projects.
Without such schemes in place, attracting the private sector for both management expertise and
investment financing will not be achieved as the current situation in Mexico today demonstrates.
Greater efforts will be needed to sensitize local authorities to this need and depoliticize
consideration of cost recovery schemes.
34.   A  second sector-related issue is that without some type of enforcement pressure
municipalities will be prone to continue to muddle along with the quality of existing solid waste
services. Public consciousness does not yet appear to be sufficiently high to lead to a public
clamor for better service. The federal government will need to strengthen its enforcement efforts
to require the use and satisfactory operation of final disposal facilities in parallel to the
strengthening of enforcement by agencies at the state level. To be effective, such controls will
require a harmonized system of regulation among all levels of government.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
(Loan 2669-ME)
PART II:   STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives
Achievement of Objectives     Substantial        Partial         Nligible:    Not Applicable
Macro policies                                                                         1
Sector Policies
Financial objectives                                                  I
Institutional development                                            1
Physical objectives                                 V
Poverty reduction                                                     I
Gender issues                                                                          I
Other social objectives                                                                I
Environmental objectives                            I
Public sector management
Private sector development                                                             I
Other                                                                                   I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
(Loan 2669-ME)
Table 1 (cont): Summary of Assessments
B. Project Sustainability
........... . ......_
Poect sustainability:;      Likely                UniWyDaetl
C. Bank Performance
Ban perfonance           Hihystsatr                 Stsatr                    edn
Preparation assistance 
Appraisal                                                IC
Supervision                                                                      v
D. Borrower Performance
Iorrower perfonnance0    High;lysatisfactory       Satisftory               B l.  ien  
Implementation                                                                   /
Covenant compliance                                      I
Operation                                                                        /
E. Assessment of Outcome
Assessment of outcomel  H ighl f[satisatory   Satisfaictry   Unatsacoy   Wgb)yl uEsatuufictory
L                                                /                               I~~~~~~~~~



{PRIVATE jIMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SOLID W ASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
(Loan 2669-ME)
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan Title                  PUps                Y:.  ::
Preceding Operations:
1. LAzaro C4rdenas Conurbation    Provide infrastructure,  1978        Completed June 1983. PCR No. M87-
Project (1554-ME)               community facilities                   1287, November 9, 1987
and low-cost housing.
2. Second Urban & Regional      Credits for productive     1981        Completed December 1988.
Development Project (1990-ME)    enterprises to                        Amount canceled US$22.4 million. PCR
complement                            No. M93-0139, January 12, 1993.
expanding economic
activity in growing
peripheral regions of
Tabasco, Veracruz
and Chiapas.
3. Deconcentration Program for    Support preparation of   1982        Completed December 1987. Amount
the Mexico City Region (2194-   a pre-investment stage                 canceled US$4.8 million. PCR No. M90-
ME)                             of a deconcentration                   0790, May 23, 1990.
program for the
Mexico City region.
4. Low Income Housing Project    Financing low income      1985        Completed December 1992. PCR No.
(2612-ME)                       housing investments                    M91-1360, October 15, 1991.
outside Mexico City
region.
5. Water, Women, and            Improve living             1989        Total loan amount was canceled before
Development Project (3101 -ME)    standards of low-                    effectiveness by request of Government.
income groups.                        PCM No. 4623 June 21, 1991
6. Municipal Strengthening      Support Government's       1986        Completed December 1994.
Project (2666-ME)               strategy of                            ICR No. 14749-ME
strengthening
municipal institutions.
Following Operations:
1. Second Solid Waste           Follow-up project to       1994        Declared effective September 1995 and
Management Project (3752-ME)    2669-ME supporting                     currently under implementation.
further institutional
reform and
investments in the
solid waste subsector.



(PRIVATE }IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
(Loan 2669-ME)
Table 3: Project Timetable
- \ 0Step in project cyc0le   ;      aelne                 Pate actu
Identification                     April 10, 1984        April 10, 1984
Preparation                        May 20, 1985          May 20, 1985|
Appraisal                          June 10, 1985         July 15, 1985
Negotiations                       January 18, 1986      February 18, 1986
Board Presentation                 March 5, 1986         March 25, 1986
Signing                            April 9, 1986         April 9, 1986
E.ffectiveness                     August 10, 1986.       September 10, 1986
Completion                         December 31, 1994     December 31, 1995
Loan Closing            June 30,~~~~~~~~~~~. 1994......  June. 30, 1995...



IMPLEMENTATION (OMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
(Loan 2669-ME)
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY87    Y68: FY89: FY90  FY91   FY2  FY93   FY94    FY95
Appraisal Estimate          6.0   12.0   16.0   18.3   20.9   22.7   23.9   25.0
Actual                      2.5    3.0    5.6    6.2    7.6    9.7   11.8   14.9    19.7
Actual as % of Estimate    41.6   25.0   35.0   33.8   36.4   42.7   49.4   60.0    78.9
Date of final disbursement   October 11, 1995



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
(Loan 2669-ME)
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
No indicators were developed for project implementation at the time of Loan preparation.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No indicators were developed for project operation.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
(Loan 2669-ME)
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
A. Generic Studies and Project Preparation
1. IihoWAbIbi*Ii deolosa  siduos S61idosde Envases y Embalajis a Nivel Nacional
2. Maa4o Y Redd- de Residuos do Eavases y Embalajes Intern.
3. Estudicdo Opelonos pa la Paipaci6n de la Popema en el Mhaejo de Residuos S6lidos
-4. rdcci6n do dw Videos del Proyoct Pilto de Residuos S6lidos de Meida
3. Estudia de Costos de los Sistemas de limpia del Pais.
6. DesTrrollelabstitucional dal Sistema de Gesti6n de Residuos S6hidos a Nivel Nacional.
t Esdie sb  Finaas y Aspectos Contablos de los Sistemas de Linpia del Pais.
B. Plan Preparation and Prefeasibility Studies
Prefeaibility Studies
1. Cancun
2. Cuemavaca
3. Villahermosa
4. Tlaxcala
5. Chilpancingo
6. Parral
7. Xalapa
8. Saltillo
Feasibility Studies
1. Cotzacoalcos y Minatitlan
2. Tuxpan
3. Luis Potosi y Ciudad Valles
4. Iguala y Taxco
5. Ensenada
6. Oaxaca Y Puerto Escondido
7. Integrated Solid Waste Management Plans (Plan Maestro
de Residuos S6lidos) - Diagnotic studies carried out in 50
cities; executive projects for 25 cities



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
(Loan 2669-ME)
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Appratl; 0 isa;:    -  : l e             :it imXte; 0  :Actualt
1:X0PiojeC_n:-omp:onenti0:::f t:0;::;:;:;;;;; ;;M  tE;i iorei: Loctll Frei  Toital    Local:    Foreign  Total
A. NATIONAL                                        5.29        2.27     7.56      3.90         1.50      5.40
1. Coordination Unit
a) Technical Assistance                           0.68        1.30     1.98       0.80           -      0.80
b) Equipment and Spare Parts                      0.02        0.01     0.03       0.03           -      0.03
c) Operations & Maintenance                       1.09                 1.09       0.08           -      0.08
Sub-total                       1.79        1.51     3.10       0.91           -      0.91
2. Generic Studies                                0.71        0.13      0.84      0.94         1.50      2.44
3. Definition of Problems and Feasibility          1.97        0.67     2.63      0.60           -       0.60
Studies in 26 cities
4. Preparation of Follow-on Projects              0.83        0.16      0.99      1.45           -       1.45
B. PILOT                                         23.80        7.33    31.13      40.90         1.73     42.63
a) Technical Assistance                           3.84        0.80     4.64       1.29        0.17       1.46
b) Equipment & Spare Parts                        4.20        3.79     7.99      24.84        1.56     26.40
c) Civil Works                                    6.58        2.74     9.32      14.77           -      14.77
d) Land                                           6.43           -     6.43                -               -
e) Other Works                                    0.01           -    0.01
f) Operations & Maintenance                       2.69           -     2.69          -           -         -
Sub-Total                      23.80        7.33    31.13
C. Engineering & Administration                   0.99        0.41      1.40      3.90        1.50       5.41
D. Contingencies                                   8.06        2.76    10.82       0.2           -        0.2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     37.55       12.45    50.00     44.80         3.23     48.04



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SOLIID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
(Loan 2669-ME)
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
By Source:
Appraisal Esimate                    Actul
Source          Local    Foieign      Total    Local   forel ..       Tod.
Bank                    12.55       12.45      25.00    14.17    3.23          17.40
Government              12.00                  12.00    13.13      -           13.13
SEDUE                    3.25                   3.25               -
Beneficiaries            9.75                   9.75    17.50      -           17.50
Total                   37.55       12.45      50.00    44.80    3.23         48.03
By Componeiat:
Components                Estimate                                 Actual
Bank    Government  SEDUE    Beneficiaries   Total   Bank    Government  Beneficiaries  Total
Pilot           16.94         11.55       1.85           9.75   40.09    12.70          12.43         17.50    42.63
National         8.06          0.45       1.40              -    9.91     4.70           0.70             -    5.40
Total           25.00         12.00       6.50          19.50   50.00    17.40          13.13         17.50    48.03



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
(Loan 2669-ME)
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The project supported least cost investment solutions. No economic or financial rate of return was
calculated



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
(Loan 2669-ME)
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Ageement       Section    Covenant   Presant      Original       Revised   -   Descrimtoo of Covenant           Co      "
Type*     Status#    Flflibment    Fulfillmet't
Date          NWte.
Loan          2.02 (b)        F         CD      3/31/1988     7/22/1988     Borrower to open and maintain a
special account in dollars.
Loan          3.01           F          C       3/31/1988     3/31/1988     BorrowertocarryoutPartAand
B of the project.
Loan          3.03           F          C       3/31/1988     3/31/1988     Open and maintain FORTAMUN
account in pesos.
Loan         4.01(b)i        A          CD      June of each   June 1988    Borrower to have its account and
year.                       financial statements, including
the Mandate and Special
Account audited by qualified and
independent auditors.
Loan         4.01 (b)ii      A          CD      June of each   June 1988    Borrower shall furnish to the
year                        Bank each month certified
statements of the Special
Account, no later than June 30 of
each year.
Loan         4.01(b)iii      A          CD      monthly       June 1988     Furnish monthly to Bank audited
statements of Special Account
Guarantee    3.01            M          C       during        n.a.          UTC to carry project with
project                     exception of pilot component
execution                   and the finance study (b) iii to be
carried out by BANOBRAS with
the assistance of UTC.
Guarantee     3.03           M          CD      during        n.a.          Maintain UTC fully staffed with
project                     qualified personnel.
execution
*Types: A=accounts/audits; F=financial performance; C=counterpart funding; M=management; E=environment;
**Status: C=covenant complied with; CD=complied with after delay.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
(Loan 2669-ME)
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Fully complied with.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
(Loan 2669-ME)
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Staff Weeks
Stage of Project Cyde               Planned             Actual
Through appraisal                      n.a.                     13.4
App.aisal-->-*Board                    n a                      33.9
Board-->Effectiveness                  n a                       n.a
Supervision                           n.a.                     109.0
Coinpletion                             8                        6.0
Total                                                          162.3



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
(Loan 2669-ME)
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
S:*ge of Project      Month/Year          No. of:    No. of       Sp daized         Stf      Rating    Ileof
-:Cyde; t :                               Weeks      Persons      stskills  : s   Weeks      Status         Prblems
represented      ...
Identification    April 1984             1          2           E,F             2.0         n/s       n/s
Preparation       August 1984            2           3          E,F             6.0         n/s       n/s
Pre-Appraisal     May 1985               1           1          E               1.0         n/s       n/s
Appraisal         July 1985              2           3          E,F,Ec          6.0         n/s       n/s
Post-appraisal*    January 1986          2          2           E,F             4.0         n/s       n/s
Supervision       October 1986           2          2           E,F             4.0        2          M,F
Supervision       January 1987           1           1          E               1.0        2          M,F
Supervision      March 1987              2          2           E,F             4.0        2          M,F
Supervision       July 1988              2          2           E,F             4.0        2          MF
Supervision      April 1989              2          3           E,F             6.0        2          M,F,P
Supervision       September 1989         2          2           E,F             2.0        2          M,F
Supervision       September 1990         1          2           L               3.0        2          n/s
Supervision      December 1990           2          2           E,F             4.0        2          M,F
Supervision      August 1991             1          2           E,F             2.0        2          M,F
Supervision       March 1991             2          3           E,F             6.0        3          M,F
Supervision       May 1992               2          3           E,F             6.0         3         M,F
Supervision*      October 1992           2           3          E,F,Ec          6.0        2          M,F
Supervision      February 1993           2          2           E,F             4.0        2          M,F
Supervision       July 1993              2          3           E,F             6.0        2          M,F
Supervision       October 1994           1          2           E,F             2.0        2          MF
Supervision       June 1995              2           1          F               2.0        2          MF
* Combined with other project activity
Specialties: F=Financial Analyst; E=Engineer, Ec=Economist; L=Lawyer
Type of problem: M=Managerial; F=Financial; P-Political; n/s= Not Specified



Anpendix A
AYUDA DE MEMORIA
PROYECTO PILOTO SOBRE EL MANEJO DE LOS RESIDUOS SOLIDOS
PRESTAMO 2669-ME
MEXICO
1.   La Misi6n de Banco Mundial integrada por el Sr. Edgard Martinez visit6
Mexico del 15 al 30 de Junio de 1995.
2.   El objetivo de la Misi6n fue la evaluaci6n de las actividades alcanzadas del
Proyecto Piloto sobre el Manejo de los Residuos S6lidos (Prestamo 2669-
ME), para la preparacicn del Inforrne Final del Proyecto (Implementation
Completion Report, ICR) y realizar un intercambio con los funcionarios
responsables dentro de BANOBRAS, SEDESOL, funcionarios de las
diferentes municipalidades estatales y otros profesionales participantes
dentro de la ejecuci6n del proyecto. Tambien Ilevar a cabo visitas de
supervisi6n a Monterrey, N.L. Durango, Dgo., Mazatlan, Sin., y Queretaro,
Qro. La evaluaci6n de cada una de estas visitas se adjuntan al Ayuda
Memora.
3.   La Misi6n tuvo la oportunidad de revisar la infommaci6n obtenida para la
preparaci6n del informe final mencionado anteriormente, asi como
intercambiar experiencias con todos los funcionarios responsables del
mismo.
4.   Se calcularon los costos preliminares del proyecto, incluyendo aquellos
llevados a cabo con aportaci6n local. Asimismo, se obtuvo un detalle de los
costos por rubro de financiamiento y por cada uno de las componentes del
Proyecto y las actividades realizadas dentro del periodo de implementaci6n
del proyecto (1986-1995). El costo total del proyecto ascendi6 a US$ 48.03
millones.
5.   Con fecha 20 de junio de 1994, se solicit6 la cancelaci6n de US$5.29
millones, que ya fue aprobada por Banco Mundial. El 23 de febrero de 1995,
se solicit6 la cancelaci6n de US$1.5 millones adicionales, por lo que el
monto total a cancelar es de US$6.79 millones. Lo anterior, se aclara con el
fin de que se descuenten dichas cantidades para el cobro de la comisi6n de
compromiso por lo no desembolsado. Asimismo, BANOBRAS manifest6 a la
Misi6n que ya solicito al Banco Mundial una pr6rroga administrativa por tres
meses con el fin de mantener abiertas las cuentas del prestamo y se
puedan realizar los desembolsos de las operaciones comprendidas al 30 de
junio de 1995.



2
6.   El proyecto financi6 un total de 16 subproyectos, de los cuales, dos
subproyectou.. se cancelaron, uno en la municipalidad de Campeche por falta
de disponibilidad de recursos fiscales, y otro en la municipalidad de
Acapulco, ya que el municipio acreditado no afect6 los recursos crediticios.
Tambien se realizaron 37 estudios y proyectos ejecutivos y otros estudios a
nivel nacionales. Se ha estimado que el costo total de componente"A" y "B"
ascendi6 a US$42.6 millones y US$5.4 millones respectivamente. Por
otro lado, el Banco Mundial financio un total de US$17.4 millones (36.0%)
del costo total del proyecto, Gobierno Federal US$13.1 millones (28.6%) y
el resto US$17.5 millones (35.4%) por los gobiernos locales. Los cuadros
de costos y fuentes de financiamiento de las actividades del proyecto se
adjuntan a la Ayuda de Memoria.
7.   El proyecto en su contenido global beneficio a un total aproximado de 25.1
millones de habitantes en todo el pais, que correspondieron a 19.1 millones
de habitantes al componente nacional y 6.0 millones de habitantes al
componente piloto. Asimismo, con la realizaci6n de los diferentes estudios y
proyectos ejecutivos, se logr6 un cambio de actitud hacia el buen manejo de
los residuos s6lidos y consecuentemente a la preservaci6n del medio
ambiente. Los organismos operadores de las diferentes municipalidades han
mejorado su eficiencia operativa mediante la optimizaci6n en el uso de los
recursos financieros.
8.   Al 30 de Junio de 1995, el total desembolsado del prestamo suma US$17.5
millones.  BANOBRAS  ha  estimado  desembolsos  adicionales  de
aproximadamente US$0.1 millones. Asimismo, se ha planeado la
cancelaci6n de los fondos restantes del prestamo por el equivalente de
US$6.7 millones. El estado de desembolsos del prestamos por categoria de
prestamos se anexa a la Ayuda Memoria.
9.   La Misi6n tuvo la oportunidad de proveer un temario bbsico a BANOBRAS
para la preparaci6n de su informe final que incluye los aspectos necesarios
en el informe. Asimismo, la Misi6n pudo asesorar a BANOBRAS en la forma
de preparaci6n y diseflo del mismo. La Misi6n manifest6 que dicho informe
no debera ser mayor a 10 pbginas y que debera tambien incluir un resumen
del mismo. El indice basico del informe se anexa a esta Ayuda de Memoria.
10.  La Misi6n reconoci6 la labor efectiva de BANOBRAS y SEDESOL en cuanto
a la preparaci6n de los datos financieros, de ejecuci6n fisica del proyecto y
las visitas al campo. Las visitas a los subproyectos realizadas por la Misi6n,
reconfirmaron grandemente todas las observaciones formuladas en las
anteriores Misiones de Supervisi6n del Banco. La Misi6n pudo observar la
necesidad primordial de aumentar la supervisi6n tecnica de los
subproyectos, aspecto que debera ser analizado en el Segundo Proyecto
Sectorial de Residuos S6lidos (Prestamo 3752-ME).



3
11.  Dentro de la visita a Monterrey se pud6 verificar todas las medidas
operacionales y administrativas lievada a cabo por SIMEPRODE, lo cual
coadyuv6 a un exito en la realizacion del subproyecto. Tambien se pud6
verificar el fortalecimiento institucional de la empresa en las areas contables
y de informatica. SIMEPRODE ha liegado a ser una empresa
financieramente autosostenible como consecuencia al incremento de sus
tarifas y a la disminuci6n de sus costos operativos y administrativos y al
hecho de que el Gobierno del Estado asuma el pago del servicio de la deuda
con BANOBRAS. El total de su personal ha disminuido en comparaci6n con
aflos anteriores, de igual forma sus costos operacionales y administrativos.
La empresa se ha saneado financieramente y practicamente ha eliminado la
deuda con sus proveedores. La Mision visit6 algunas estaciones de
transferencia y pud6 observar la limpieza de sus instalaciones, asi como la
eficiente labor de la disposici6n de los residuos s6lidos. Una mayor
informaci6n aparece dentro del reporte a la visita a la ciudad de Monterrey,
N.L.
12.  Con relaci6n al subproyecto de la municipalidad de Durango, Dgo., se pud6
verificar el mayor esfuerzo operacional e institucional Ilevado a cabo por la
nueva Direcci6n de Servicios Publicos Municipales. Asimismo, se ha
reducido el nuimero actual de rutas del sistema de recolecci6n a un total de
85, incluyendo el redisehio de algunas y su extensi6n en otras. Todo lo
anterior, ha permitido incrementar un mayor nivel de cobertura en los
servicios de recolecci6na al 98%. En un corto plazo se llevara a cabo la
construcci6n del relleno sanitario, que ya fue discutido durante la ultima
Misi6n del Banco. La Misi6n mostr6 nuevamente su preocupaci6n con
relaci6n a los bajos niveles de recuperaci6n de costos en el cual operan las
tarifas actuales de la municipalidad. A este respecto, la municipalidad
manifest6 que brevemente se realizara un estudio tarifario con la asistencia
tecnica de SEDESOL. La Misi6n conjuntamente con la SEDESOL acordaron
que la Direcci6n de Residuos S6lidos de SEDESOL brinde una asistencia
tfcnica a las autoridades municipales de Durango, a fin de poder
complementar un plan de acci6n que conduzca a la reorganizaci6n del
sistema de rutas de recoleccion, para lo cual debera estudiarse la necesidad
de contratar a un consultor, y un estudio de tarifas que conduzcan a la
recuperaci6n de los costos operativos incluyendo el servicio de la deuda. Se
solicitara a Banco Mundial que dicha asistencia tecnica pueda ser financiada
a traves del nuevo prestamo 3752-ME



4
13.  Con relaci6n al subproyecto de la municipalidad de Mazatlan, Sin.)la Misi6n
pud6 observar que la problematica de los residuos s6lidos es uno de los
problemas mas graves de la zona urbana, y pud6 detectar la presencia de
residuos y escombros en lagunas y esteros. La municipalidad dispone de 42
unidades de recolecci6n, de las cuales 22 unidades se financiaron con
recursos del Banco Mundial. El numero total de rutas actualmente es de 51
rutas (41 urbanas y 10 rurales). A este respecto la Misi6n del Banco sugiri6
el redisenio de las rutas existentes, a fin de adecuarlas a la nueva flota de
vehiculos y cubrir la demanda del servicio actual.  Asimismo, fue
preocupaci6n de la Misi6n que las tarifas actuales no recuperan los costos
operativos del sistema, ni tampoco han sufrido un incrmento durante sus
ultimos aflos. La Misi6n expreso la necesidad de realizar los ajustes
tarifarios a la brevedad posible. Sin embargo, los funcionarios municipales
expresaron que no se tiene planeado incrementos en las tarifas en un corto
plazo, por el riesgo que se correria en la cancelacion del servicio por un
gran numero de usuarios. Durante la visita de la Misi6n al tiradero de
basura, se observo que 6ste es un tiradero a cielo abierto, carente de
medios preventivos en el cual un solo tractor acumula los residuos s6lidos.
Asimismo, se pud6 observar la carencia de cercas m6viles para proteger la
dispersi6n de residuos livianos como plasticos y papeles que al volar cubren
extensas areas en la vecindad del sitio de disposici6n.
14.  Durante la visita a Queretaro, la Misi6n tuv6 la oportunidad de evaluar los
resultados obtenidos de los subproyectos, a traves de sus acreditados. Los
beneficios obtenidos fueron muy satisfactorios con la sustituci6n de los
tiraderos a cielo abierto con los rellenos sanitarios. La poblaci6n beneficiada
con el sistema de recolecci6n ha sido mayor al 80%, asimismo, un beneficio
inmediato ha sido el mejor saneamiento de las cuencas acuiferas. En el
desarrollo de los subproyectos participaron varias Secretarias de Estado y el
grado de coordinaci6n de sus labores fue muy satisfactorio. Como resultado
de los subrpoyectos se ha desarrollado un Modelo de Reglamento sobre el
Manejo de Residuos S6lidos a Nivel Municipal, las autoridades municipales
manifestaron a la Misi6n que la SEDESOL debera ampliar la supervisi6n.
Asimismo, solicitaron que el Banco Mundial agilice los tiempos de respuesta
de no objeciones a licitaciones internacionales. Se acord6 una mayor
participaci6n de SEDESOL en las actividades de capacitaci6n de
funcionarios involucrados en la prestacion del servicio de recolecci6n de
residiuos s6lidos, sin embargo a finales de 1994 se organiz6 un curso que
fue de gran ayuda, dado que las autoridades municipales iniciaban su
gesti6n.



S
15.  Como resultado de la visita a los rellenos sanitarios de San Juan del Rio y
Tequisquipan, Qro., se verific6 que tanto la construcci6n de las instalaciones
del relleno sanitario, asi como su operaci6n se realizaron de acuerdo a los
requisitos de los proyectos ejecutivos. Se consider6 por parte de
BANOBRAS la posibilidad de realizar un video promocional, cuyo fin es
demostrar a otros municipios las diferencias entre tiraderos a cielo abierto o
controlados a un relleno sanitario, de manera tal que la inversi6n que se
realice en el relleno sanitario permite el prevenir y controlar la contaminaci6n
del ambiente provocado por los residuos s6lidos municipales. Para la
realizaci6n de dicho video se solicita a Banco Mundial su autorizaci6n para
incluir su costo dentro de la Componente de Asistencia Tecnica y
Fortalecimiento que corresponde a BANOBRAS en el Segundo Proyecto de
Residuos S6oidos (Prestamo 3752-ME), y cuyo costo preliminar se estima
del orden de 150,000 nuevos pesos, con una duraci6n de 15 a 20 minutos
adicionalmente se requiere de tripticos y de una guia tecnica operativa como
soporte de dicho video.
16.  Las autoridades municipales, SEDESOL y BANOBRAS manifestaron el
deseo de que Banco Mundial agilice las respuestas a las solicitudes de no
objeci6n, principalmente a lo referente a licitaciones intemacionales, ya que
el retraso provoc6 desfasamiento de los proyectos. Asimismo, tanto
SEDESOL como BANOBRAS reiteraron la necesidad de una mayor
supervisi6n por parte del Banco Mundial y mantener una continuidad de
personal del Banco encargado del proyecto.
17.  La Misi6n agradece todas las atenciones, cortesias y colaboracion recibida
en todo momento de parte de los funcionarios de BANOBRAS, SEDESOL y
los funcionarios de todas las entidades anteiormente mencionadas.
BANOBRAS                               BANCO MUNDIAL
Junio 30, 1995



6
BANOBRAS
INFORME FINAL DE IMPLEMENTACION
Resumen
Evaluaci6n de los objetivos del proyecto, diseho e implementaci6n y la
experiencia operacional del proyecto.
Evaluaci6n de BANOBRAS
Analisis del comportamiento de BANOBRAS durante la evoluci6n e
implementacion del proyecto, con especial atenci6n a aquellas lecciones
derivadas y que podrian ser relevantes para operaciones futuras.
Evaluaci6n del Banco
Analisis del comportamiento del Banco y otras co-financieras y cualquier
otra instituci6n, que participo en el proyecto, durante la evoluci6n e
implementaci6n del proyecto, incluyendo la efectividad de las relaciones
entre BANOBRAS, Banco y otras instituciones co-financieras. Atenci6n
especial debera darse a aquellas lecciones derivadas de la experiencia del
proyecto.



7
LISTA DE PERSONAS ENTREVISTADAS
BANOBRAS
Lic. Jose Gerardo Davila Jimenez   Director Adjunto de Financiamiento
Ing. Guillermo Castellanos Guzman  Subdirector de Financiamiento a los
Servicios.
Lic. Ismael Diaz Aguilera          Gerente de  Organismos Financieros
Internacionales
Lic. Alfredo Velasco Alvarado      Gerente  de  Financiamiento  a  la
Infraestructura y los Servicios
Lic. Jesus Morales Garduflo        Subgerente de Desarrollo Urbano
Ing. Francisco Suzan Colombres     Subgerente de Residuos S61idos.
Ing. Juan Ramos Garcia             Experto Tecnico
Lic. Jose Angel Luna Garcia        Experto Tecnico
Lic. Guadalupe Ochoa Salas         Especialista
SEDESOL
Ing. Gustavo Rosiles Castro        Director  de  Residuos  S6lidos  y
Preservaci6n del Medio Ambiente.
Ing. Zeferno Godinez Rangel        Subdirector de Area.



8
ESTADO DE NUEVO LEON
SEDESOL
Arq. Luis Ramon Lucio                         Subdelegado de Desarrollo
Urbano y Vivienda de la
SEDESOL
BANOBRAS
Ing. Felipe Olvera                            Delegacion Estatal
BANOBRAS
GOBIERNO DEL ESTADO
Lic. Ramiro Garcia Ayala                      Director General del
SIMEPRODE
C. Rogelio Hernandez Ramos                    Subdirector Administrativo y
de Finanzas.
Lic.. Miguel Angel Medina                     Subdirector de Operaciones
Arq. Jose V6zquez.-                           Gerente de Operaciones.



9
ESTADO DE DURANGO
SEDESOL
Ing. Jose Guillermo Chavez Huidobro   Jefe de la Unidad de Desarrollo Urbano
de la SEDESOL
Ing. Roberto Galindo Novelo          Subdelegado Regional Urbano de la
SEDESOL
BANOBRAS
Ing. Victor Manuel Cisneros          Delegado Estatal de BANOBRAS en
Durango
C. Heriberto Reyes Diaz              Subdelegado de Control y Operaciones
Crediticias.-. BANOBRAS Durango
Ing. Juan Ramos Garcia               BANOBRAS.- Oficinas Centrales
GOBIERNO DEL ESTADO
Ing. Rolf Furrer Schwarz             Director de Servicios Publicos
Municipales
C. jorge Ram6n Alvarez Renteria      Encargado del Departamento de Aseo
Urbano.
M.C. Irma Herrera Hemandez           Auxiliar Tecnico.- Desarrollo Social
Municipal.



l0
ESTADO DE SINALOA
SEDESOL
Lic. Luis E. Ruiz.                  SEDESOL
BANOBRAS
Lic. Enrique A. Feliz Bastida       Subdelegado  de  Financiamiento  de
BANOBRAS.
Lic. Antonio Batis                  Subdelegado de BANOBRAS.
GOBIERNO DEL ESTADO
Lic. Francisco Franco Amador        Director de Servicios Publicos.
Lic. Martin Siqueiros               Subdirector de Servicios Municipales
Lic. Manuel Aviles                  Director de Ingresos del Municipio
Lic. Martha Blancarte Beltran       Tesoreria Municipal



ii
ESTADO DE QUERETARO
SEDESOL
Ing. Dinhora Guerrero               Direcci6n de Ecologia de Queretaro
Q.1. Juana Cruz R.                  SEDESOL
Lic. Alejandro Spriu                Direcci6n de Ecologia
BANOBRAS
Lic. Jorge Eugenio Boneta de la Parra   Delegado BANOBRAS
Ing. Antonio Aguilar Garcia         BANOBRAS
GOBIERNO DEL ESTADO
Ing. Jose Ramon Perez               Direcci6n de Ecologia
Ing. Jorge Araujo Estrada           Secretaria de Gobernacion (CEDEM)
Ing. Fernando Mendoza               Secretaria  de  Obras  Publicas  del
Gobierno del Estado de Queretaro



12
VISITA A MONTERREY ( ESTADO NUEVO LEON)
La Mision integrada por el Senor Edgard Martinez (Banco Mundial), Ing. Zeferino
G6dinez (SEDESOL) y el Lic. Jose Angel Luna Garcia, (BANOBRAS) visit6
Monterrey el 19 de Junio de 1995. al Sistema Metropolitano de Procesamiento de
Desechos S6lidos (SIMEPRODE), la estacion de transferencia de Santa Catarina
y las estaciones de relleno sanitario.  Asimismo, tuvo conversaciones con
funcionarios de la Gerencia de Operaciones del SIMEPRODE.
1.   Inicialmente el Director General del SIMEPRODE comunic6 a la Misi6n del
Banco que 6l tomo posesi6n de la empresa el 17 de mayo de 1994. Su
primera labor fue la de llevar a cabo un diagnostico global del SIMEPRODE,
y posteriormente la implementaci6n de un Sistema de Control Administrativo
y un Estudio Tarifario del Sistema Metropolitano. Con base al diagnostico
anterior, se implementaron una serie de medidas tanto operacionales como
financieras, las cuales han fortalecido en gran medida a SIMEPRODE.
Asimismo, el Director General, nos comunic6 que dentro de las medidas
financieras m6s importantes fue el incremento de las tarfas en un 30%,
(equivalente a los niveles reales de 1991), lo cual ha generado mayores
aumentos en los ingresos de la empresa. Entre los principales aumentos
tarifarios se menciona el incremento de N$40.0 a 52.0 por tonelada por el
servicio de transferencia y disposicion y de N$25.0 a 32.50 por tonelada en
el relleno sanitario.
La Mision pudo verificar que actualmente la mayor parte de la cartera de
usuarios de la empresa (65%) pertenece a los municipios y la restante a
otros organismos publicos y empresas particulares. El Director manifest6
que hubo ciertos atrasos en la recuperaci6n de las tarifas por la situaci6n
econ6mica actual de algunos de los municipios. La Misi6n pudo verificar que
la situaci6n operacional y financiera del SIMEPRODE ha mejorado
enormemente con relaci6n al aho pasado, lIegando a ser una empresa con
liquidez financiera, sin considerar el pago del servicio de la deuda que se
tiene con BANOBRAS.
2.   Dentro de las medidas operacionales y administrativas tomadas por la
empresa se menciona un aumento en los controles administrativos, un
mayor fortalecimiento en el area de adquisiciones, mejorias en el plan de
mantenimiento de equipo y en el area contable, asi como tambien un
fortalecimiento en los aspectos de sistemas de infom,atica. Todo lo anterior,
hace que SIMEPRODE este funcionando como una mejor instituci6n
intermunicipal, autofinanciable y de mayor eficiencia operacional.
3.   SIMEPRODE, a partir de noviembre de 1994, ha presentado un superavit de
operacion como consecuencia del aumento en sus tarifas y la disminuci6n



13
de sus costos operativos y administrativos. El total de su personal disminuy6
de 257 a 195 personas (al 15/junio/95), distribuidas de la siguiente manera:
oficinas centrales 33; relleno sanitario 71 de los cuales 16 estan destinados
a( mantenimiento tanto de vehiculos transfer y equipo del relleno y 55 a la
operaci6n del relleno. y estaciones de transferencia 91. Los costos
cperacionales disminuyeron de N$ 2.7 millones a N$ 2.0 millones promedio
mensual. y los costos administrativos, tambien disminuyeron de N$ 0.5
millones a N$ 0.3 de millones mensual. La empresa se ha saneado
financieramente y practicamente ha eliminado la deuda con sus
proveedores. El sistema de recuperaci6n de costos a los usuarios por parte
de las municipalidades ha permitido a la empresa un mejor flujo de sus
recursos  financieros y de esta  forma  el poder financiar sus gastos
actuales.
4.   La inquietud presentada por la Misi6n del Banco durante su ultima visita a
SIMEPRODE relacionada con la baja calidad de sus servicios y la alta
proporcion del equipo no operacional, ha sido eliminada, cuando se pudo
verificar que actualmente SIMEPRODE ha solidificado su situaci6n
financiera y ha disminuido la proporci6n del equipo no operacional a casi un
10%. Como consecuencia de sus reformas administrativas y operacionales,
SIMEPRODE ha mejorado la calidad de sus servicios y casi eliminado todas
las quejas de los usuarios, especialmente de aquellos ambientalistas y los
que estan situados cerca de sus instalaciones.
5.   SIMEPRODE actualmente dispone de 14 equipos para la operaci6n del
relleno sanitario mediante el Plan Emergente de Mantenimiento de equipo,
lograron incrementar de 11 unidades transfer que tenian en operaci6n a 25
unidades. La Misi6n pudo comprobar una mejoria en el mantenimiento de
sus estaciones de transferencia que incluyen mejorias en los sistemas
electricos y de drenaje . Las protestas por el uso inapropiado del relleno por
la recepcion de residuos industriales no autorizados, que fue detectado por
la ultima Misi6n del Banco, han sido eliminadas, ya que la empresa ejerce
actualmente un mayor control sobre el acceso a las creas de recepci6n.
6.   Ia Misi6n pudo observar que el relleno sanitario habilitado mantiene
sistemas de drenaje y captaci6n de lixiviados, los cuales son extraidos
mediante equipo de bombeo para ser esparcido sobre la cubierta de la
trinchera. Asimismo, se pudo verificar que ya existen instalaciones para la
evacuaci6n de gases generados por la descomposici6n de la basura. A este
respecto, SIMEPRODE inform6 a la Misi6n que actualmente se esta
realizando un estudio sobre la composici6n de la basura generada y
posteriormente se tomara la decisi6n de alguin proyecto correspondiente.
Las observaciones anteriores fueron presentadas por la ultima Misi6n del
Banco.



14
7.   Con relacion a la inquietud de la ultima Mision del banco relacionada con la
formaci6n y preparaci6n de celdas diarias de disposici6n y la utilizaci6n de
cercas m6viles para evitar la dispersi6n de plasticos y papeles sobre las
areas vecinas al relleno, al respecto si bien siguen sin utilizar cercas
moviles, sin embargo, se observ6 que han mantenido limpio el relleno
sanitario asi como las areas vecinas, ademas se observ6 que en areas de
disposici6n con cubierta final se ha iniciado la arbolizaci6n mediante la
plantaci6n de palmeras respondiendo de esta manera a las observaciones
realizadas por el Banco Mundial.
8.   Con el fin de incrementar la vida util del relleno sanitario SIMEPRODE
informo a la Misi6n que elevara hasta 14 metros, la altura de la celda final.
9.   Actualmente SIMEPRODE  atiende a 10 municipalidades (Monterrey,
Guadalupe, San Nicolas de los Garza, San Pedro Garza Garcia, Salinas
Victoria, Sta. Catarina, Apocada, Escobado, Juarez y Cienaga de Flores) a
86 organismos publicos y a 2,150 empresas particulares. El tonelaje de
basura en 1994 es de 854.650 toneladas menor en 13.5% al tonelaje
recibido en 1993 (988,311 ton/aflo). Este ultimo se incremento por las
campaffas de limpieza de afluentes del rio La Silla. Cabe mencionar que el
SIMEPRODE tiene actualmente un rendimiento por empleado en relleno
sanitario de 42.5 ton/empleado/dia, considerando el promedio de basura por
dia dispuesta en el relleno sanitario en 1994 (2,342 ton/dia) y una plantilla
de 55 empleados en el mismo relleno
10.  SIMEPRODE ,nforrn6 a la Misi6n que esta considerando la posibilidad de
concesionar a la iniciativa privada una forma integral de todos sus servicios
(transporte, recepci6n en planta y cofinamiento).
11.  Ia Misi6n sugiri6 Ilevar a cabo un analisis de compactacion de alta densidad
de residuos solidos, incluyendo el estudio de impacto a ambiental en las
estaciones de transferencia, lo cual disminuiria el costo del transporte y
aumentaria la vida util del relleno sanitario. A este respecto, el SIMEPRODE
inform6 que se esta haciendo un estudio a traves de Instituto Tecnol6gico
de Monterrey y posteriarmente conocera sus resultados.
12.-  La Misi6n tuvo la oportunidad de visitar la estacion de transferencia de
basura de Santa Catarina donde se pudo observar que estaban limpias las
instalaciones, asi como sus alrededores, ademas han reordenado el acceso
y descarga de los carretoneros, por lo que les ha perrnitido facilitar la
operacion en las estaciones de transferencia.



15
LISTA DE PERSONAS ENTREVISTADAS
ESTADO DE NUEVO LEON
SEDESOL
Arq. Luis Ram6n Lucio                         Subdelegado de Desarrollo
Urbano y Vivienda de la
SEDESOL
BANOBRAS
Ing. Felipe Olvera                            Delegacion Estatal
BANOBRAS
ESTADO DE NUEVO LEON
Lic. Ramiro Garcia Ayala                      Director General del
SIMEPRODE
C. Rogelio Hernandez Ramos                    Subdirector Administrativo y
de Finanzas.
Lic.. Miguel Angel Medina                     Subdirector de Operaciones
Arq. Jose Vazquez.-                           Gerente de Operaciones.



16
VISITA A DURANGO ( ESTADO DURANGO)
La Misi6n integrada por el Senor Edgard Martinez (Banco Mundial), el Ing. Zeferino
Godinez (SEDESOL) y el Ing. Juan Ramos Garcia (BANOBRAS) visit6 Durango el
21 de Junio de 1995, a la Direccion de Servicios Publicos Municipales. La Misi6n
se reuni6 con funcionarios estatales de SEDESOL, BANOBRAS y representantes
de los Servicios Publicos Municipales.
1 .   La Mision revis6 con las autoridades, el estado general del proyecto, asi
como los aspectos generales sobre ia gesti6n de los residuos s6lidos.
Asimismo, visit6 el lugar del tiradero controlado de basura y el sitio
propuesto para la ubicacion del nuevo relleno sanitario.
2.   El Director de Servicios Publicos Municipales, dio a conocer a la Misi6n las
mejoras Ilevadas a cabo desde la ultima visita del Banco. A este respecto,
informo de la adquisici6n de 19 nuevos camiones compactadores, (15
financiados con recursos del Banco Mundial y cuatro con recursos de
BANOBRAS), de la rehabilitaci6n de aproximadamente 30 vehiculos, asi
como de la inclusi6n de 33 nuevas colonias al sistema de recolecci6n. Todo
lo anterior, ha sido resultado de un mayor esfuerzo operacional, lo cual
incremento el volumen de basura recolectada de 250 ton/dia en 1994 a 410
ton/dia en 1995 (30 toneladas provenientes de comercios y servicios
industriales y 380 toneladas domesticas) en 1995. Asimismo, el Director
se6al6 que la poblaci6n actual es del orden de 500,000 habitantes.
3.   Con relaci6n al total del personal, inquietud presentada por la ultima misi6n
del Banco, el Director inform6 que actualmente la Direcci6n dispone de 430
personas (270 para recolecci6n y 160 para limpieza), lo cual da como
resultado una tasa de un empleado por cada 1,120 habitantes. Esta tasa
resulta un poco negativa al compararse con la correspondientes a otras
ciudades similares del pals, tales como Culiacan (1,650) y Chihuahua
(1,733) . El coeficiente de trabajadores por vehiculo recolector ha disminuido
de 4-5 a 3-4 con relaci6n al aiio de 1994.
4.   Con respecto a las rutas de recolecci6n, el Director inform6 a la Misi6n que
mientras en 1993 el numero de rutas era 84 y 1 19 en 1994, el numero actual
de rutas es de 98 . Esto representa una disminuci6n de 21 rutas al sistema
anterior. Asimismo, se inform6 que estas se han extendido en su longitud y
consecuentemente su cobertura, lo cual permite labores de mayor eficiencia
en la recolecci6n de residuos s6lidos. La situaci6n anterior, demuestra que
hoy en dia la cobertura aproximada es del 98% muy superior al 80% de
1994. La Direcci6n inform6 que dentro de las actividades contempladas se
habia incluido la pavimentaci6n del camino de acceso al relleno sanitarios,



17
sin embargo, por la dificil situaci6n economica por la que atraviesa el pais y
de la municipalidad. la inversi6n ha tenido que postergarse.
5.   La Mision del Banco solicit6 informaci6n relacionada con la selecci6n de la
ubicaci6n del relleno sanitario discutido durante la ultima Misi6n. A este
respecto, se informo que a la fecha se han seleccionado 5 posibles
alternativas para la construcci6n del relleno sanitario, y la selecci6n se hara
en corto plazo.
6.   La Mis(6n del Banco mostro nuevamente su preocupacion con relaci6n a los
bajos niveles de recuperaci6n de costos en el cual operan las actuales
tarifas. A este respecto, la Direcci6n manifest6 que actualmente no se
dispone de ningun estudio tarifario tal como se habia acordado previamente
durante la ultima Mision del Banco, y que seria realizado con asistencia
t6cnica de la SEDESOL. A este respecto, SEDESOL manifest6 que la
asistencia t6cnica relacionada con el Plan de Acci6n para la Reorganizacion
del Sistema de Recolecci6n, la Estrategia para un Estudio de Tarifas que
conduzcan a una recuperaci6n de costos, a la fecha no se ha Ilevado a
cabo.
7.   La Direccion indic6 que la unica actividad pendiente para desembolsar del
prestamo corresponde al Proyecto Ejecutivo del Relleno Sanitaro para el
Municipio de Durango. A este respecto, la Misi6n indic6 que BANOBRAS
solicitara oficialmente al Banco una ampliacioin de aproximadamente tres
meses para el periodo de desembolso. De esta forma se podria disponer de
tiempo adicional para financiar las referidas actividades.
8.   Durante la visita al tiradero controlado de basura, se pudo observar que
todavia falta compactaci6n y cobertura diaria, se constat6 la presencia de
pepenadcores y ganado en el sitio. Hay carencia de cercas moviles para
proteger la dispersi6n de residuos livianos como plasticos y papeles que al
volar cubren extensas areas en la vecindad del sitio de disposicion. A este
respecto, la Mision sugiri6 elaborar un plan de acci6n para limitar el acceso
al tiradero.
9.   La Mision conjuntamente con SEDESOL y BANOBRAS acordaron que la
Direccion de Residuos S6lidos de SEDESOL brinde asistencia tecnica
inmediata a las autondades de Durango, a fin de poder complementar un
plan de acci6n que conduzca a la reorganizacioin del sistema de recolecci6n
de rutas y el estudio de nuevas tarifas que conduzcan a una mejor
recuperaci6n rde los costos operativos



Is
LISTA DE PERSONAS ENTREVISTADAS
DURANGO, DGO.
SEDESOL
Ing. Zeferino Godinez Rangel        Subdirector de Area .- DGIE.- SEDESOL
Ing. Jose Guillermo Chavez Huidobro   Jefe de la Unidad de Desarrollo Urbano
de la SEDESOL
Ing. Roberto Galindo Novelo         Subdelegado Regional Urbano de la
SEDESOL
BANOBRAS
Ing. Victor Manuel Cisneros         Delegado Estatal de BANOBRAS en
Durango
C. Heriberto Reyes Diaz             Subdelegado de Control y Operaciones
Crediticias.-. BANOBRAS Durango
Ing. Juan Ramos Garcia              BANOBRAS.- Oficinas Centrales
ESTADO DE DURANGO
Ing. Rolf Furrer Schwarz            Director de Servicios Publicos
Municipales
C. Jorge Ramon Alvarez Renteria     Encargado del Departamento de Aseo
Urbano.
M.C. Irma Herrera Hernandez         Auxiliar Tecnico.- Desarrollo Social
Municipal.



19
VISITA A MAZATLAN (ESTADO DE SINALOA)
La Misi6n integrada por el Senior Edgard Martinez (Banco Mundial), Ing. Zeferino
G6dinez (SEDESOL) y el Ing. Juan Bautista Ramos Garcia, (BANOBRAS) visit6
Mazatlan el 23 de Junio de 1995, a la Direcci6n de Servicios Publicos de Mazatlan.
La Misi6n se reunio con funcionarios estatales de SEDESOL, BANOBRAS y
representantes de los Servicios Publicos Municipales.
Inicialmente el Director de Servicios Publicos de la Municipalidad de
Mazatlan expuso a la Misi6n en terminos generales todo el sistema de
recolecci6n de la municipalidad, incluyendo su cobertura y el numero de
unidades de que dispone para la recolecci6n. Mazatlan esta agrupado en 9
sectores, de los cuales la recolecci6n de basura se efectua durante el dia
exceptuando los sectores 1 y 2 que se efectua en forma nocturna para evitar
el congestionamiento del trafico. Con relaci6n al sector turistico, el Director
de Servicios Pujblicos mencion6 que dicho servicio se efectua
continuamente durante las 24 horas.
2.   Asimismo, se inform6 a la Misi6n que la problematica de los residuos s6lidos
es uno de los problemas mas graves de la zona urbana, incluso se ha
detectado la presencia de residuos y escombros en lagunas y esteros.
Actualmente en Mazatlan se generan 430 ton/dia de basura, de las cuales
se calcula que su utilizaci6n y reciclado es menor al 22% y su crecimiento
de toneladas diarias de basura ha sido de un 25% desde 1992.
Actualmente se dispone de 42 unidades de recolecci6n de basura de las
cuales: (20 son unidades nuevas, 4 barredoras, 5 minicompactadores, 10
contenedores de basura) 22 se financiaron con recursos del Banco Mundial.
3.   Con relaci6n al numero de rutas, actualmente se dispone de un total de 51
rutas (41 urbanas y 10 rurales). A este respecto, la misi6n del Banco sugiri6
el rediseho de las rutas existentes, a fin de adecuarlas a la nueva flota de
vehiculos y cubrir la demanda del servicio actual. A este respecto, se
inform6 a la Misi6n que se han rediserlado las rutas y en otros casos
rediseriando el horario de recolecci6n de diurno a noctumo, con esta
estrategia las autoridades han buscado que la cobertura actual del servicio
sea casi del 100%.
4.   El Director de Servicios Publicos, enfatiz6 a la Misi6n la necesidad de
equipo adicional para playas en zonas turisticas (lanchas recolectoras y
equipo de rastreo, etc.). Asimismo, inforrn6 a la Misi6n que actualmente la
Municipalidad esta iniciando algunos contactos para transferr el manejo de
algunos de los servicios municipales a una agencia independiente y de esta
forma poder optimizar los mismos. El Director de Servicios manifest6 que el



20
Ayuntamiento esta activamente interesado en la' privatizaci6n de estos
servicios y ya se han concertado platicas con diferentes firmas nacionales,
sin embargo, dichas firmas han manifestado su interes solamente en realizar
los servicios a un nivel estatal.
5.   Con relaci6n al total del personal, se inform6 a la Mision que actualmente se
dispone de un total de 380 empleados (30 administrativos, 150 en barrido y
200 en recoleccion). Este total ha permanecido casi constante desde 1992.
El total del personal de recoleccion corresponde aproximadamente al 53%
del total del personal municipal . A este respecto la Misi6n expreso su
preocupacion por el alto porcentaje de personal para la cobertura de los
servicios.
6.   Con relaci6n a las tarifas por la prestaci6n del servicio, estas actualmente no
recuperan los costos operativos del sistema, ni tampoco han sufrido un
incremento durante los uiltimos afos. La Misi6n expres6 su inquietud ante
esta anomalia, sin embargo, los funcionarios municipales expresaron que no
so piensa incrementar las tarifas, ya que se correria el riesgo de la
cancelaci6n del servicio por un gran numero de usuarios.
7.   Finalmente, la Misi6n visit6 el tiradero de basura, ypudo observar que es un
tiradero a cielo abierto, carente de medios preventivos, en el cual un tractor
acumula los residuos s6lidos. Asimismo, se pudo observar la carencia de
cercas m6viles para proteger la dispersi6n de residuos livianos como
plasticos y papeles que al volar cubren extensas areas en la vecindad del
sitio de disposici6n. La municipalidad informo que actualmente en el tiradero
se han controlado los incendios. La pepena continua y los pepenadores se
mantienen en el area del tiradero, que es terreno ejidal. Con respecto a la
presencia de los pepenadores, el Director manifest6 que la municipalidad no
puede ejercer ninguna jursdicci6n ya que ellos no son propietarios del ejido.
Se ha planeado la construcci6n de un nuevo relleno sanitaho que se
realizara en corto plazo



21
LISTA DE PERSONAS ENTREVISTADAS
SEDESOL
Lic. Luis E Ruiz.                  SEDESOL
BANOBRAS
Lic. Enrique A. Feliz Bastida      Subdelegado  de  Financiamiento  de
BANOBRAS.
Lic. Antonio Batis                 Subdelegado de BANOBRAS.
ESTADO DE SINALOA
Lic. Francisco Franco Amador       Director de Servicios Puiblicos.
Lic. Martin Siqueiros              Subdirector de Servicios Municipales
Lic. Manuel Aviles                 Director de Ingresos del Municipio
Lic. Martha Blancarte Beltran      Tesoreria Municipal



22
VISITA A QUERETARO ( ESTADO QUERETARO)
La Misi6n integrada por el Sefior Edgard Martinez (Banco Mundial), el Ing. Zeferino
Godinez (SEDESOL)y el Lic. Enrique Zarate (SEDESOL) y el Ing. Francisco
Suzan Colombres (BANOBRAS) visit6 Queretaro el 27 de Junio de 1995, a la
Direcci6n de Ecologia del Gobierno del Estado. La Misi6n se reuni6 con
funcionarios estatales de SEDESOL, BANOBRAS y representantes de la
Coordinaci6n Estatal de Desarrollo Municipal y de la Direcci6n de Ecologia del
Gobierno del Estado y representantes de los municipios de Corregidora, San Juan
del Rio y Tequ'isquiapan, Qro.
1 .   Inicialmente el Director de Ecologia del Gobierno del Estadoexpuso a la
Mision el Programa Integral de Residuos S6lidos y evalu6 el avance de los
subproyectos realizados con el financiamiento del Banco. El Programa de
Residuos tuvo cuatro acreditados (Gobierno del Estado, Municipio de
Corregidora, Municipio de Tequisquiapan y Municipio de San Juan del Rio,
Qro.) El Gobierno del Estado a atraves del Programa de Residuos S6lidos,
atendi6 a 9 municipios del Estado, sin embargo, asisti6 tecnicamente a los
12 municipios.
2.   Originalmente toda la basura colectada se depositaba a cielo abierto. Hoy a
traves del desarrollo de los subproyectos, este servicio se ha sustituido por
el de relleno sanitario. La poblaci6n beneficiada con el sistema de
recoleccion se ha estimado mayor al 80%. Asimismo, un beneficio inmediato
ha sido el mejor saneamiento de las cuencas acuiferas.
3.   El monto financiado para el subproyecto correspondiente al Gobierno del
Estado ascendio aproximadamente a N$4.9 millones de los cuales N$2.6
millones fueron con fondos provenientes de Banco Mundial, N$1.3 millones
con fondos provenientes de SEDESOL y N$1.0 millones con fondos del
Gobiemo Estatal. Como beneficios inmediatos a este proyecto se pudo
verficar una mejora en aspectos institucionales, asi como en los sistemas
de recolecci6n. El costo total de los subproyectos ascendieron a N$13.12
millones financiados de ia siguiente manera: N$5.9 millones Banco Mundial,
N$2.0 BANOBRAS como apoyo de la contraparte municipal, N$2.9 los
municipios y N$ 2.0 millones recursos fiscales.



23
Fuente de   Gobierno del Corregidora Tequisquiapan  San Juan del   TOTAL:
Financiamiento   Estado                              Rio
Banco Mundial    1 9         1.1         0.7          1.6        5.9
BANOBRAS         0 5         0.4         0 2         0 2         2.0
Municipio        11          0.7         04          0.8         2.9
Fiscales         1 3         0.7         0 4         0 9         2.0
Total:           48          29          18           3.6        13.1
Cantidades en millones de nuevos pesos
4.    El desarrollo de los Subproyectos se hizo a traves de la participaci6n de
varias Secretarias del Estado, (Finanzas, Obras Publicas, Contraloria del
Estado, Gobierno, Oficialia Mayor, Direcci6n de Ecologia etc.). A pesar del
pequerio tamar)o de los municipios involucrados en el desarrollo de los
proyectos, se pudo verificar que este proyecto piloto en terminos de
participacion estatal en el desarrollo del sector ha sido muy satisfactorio.
Esto ha sido debido principalmente del rol asumido por el Gobiemo Estatal,
la Direcci6n de Ecologia como promotora y coordinadora del Plan Maestro.
5.   Dentro de los principales problemas presentados a la Misi6n fueron los
relacionados con la nueva administraci6n que tom6 posesi6n en Noviembre
de 1994, los cuales retrasaron la implementaci6n de los subproyectos y en
algunos casos la construcci6n de los rellenos sanitarios. Asimismo, la crisis
econ6mica nacional, motiv6 una reducci6n en el personal de los municipios
y consecuentemente redujo los servicios de residuos s6lidos. Asimismo,
aquellos municipios que no tuvieron acceso a equipo y maquinaria se vieron
perjudicados en el desarrollo de sus labores, ya que dependen grandemente
en mano laboral, la cual fue reducida como consecuencia de la crisis arriba
mencionada.
6.   La Coordinaci6n Estatal de Desarrollo Municipal informo a la Misi6n que se
esta desarrollando un Modelo de Reglamento sobre el Manejo de Residuos
S61idos a nivel municipal. Por otro lado, inform6 a la Misi6n que durante el
proceso de implementacion de los Subproyectos hubo poca supervisi6n de
parte de SEDESOL y se sugiere que esta deficiencia sea superada en el
pr6ximo proyecto del Banco. Tambien se recomend6 que se disponga de los
proyectos ejecutivos antes de iniciar las inversiones con el fin de precisar los
techos financieros mas apropiados, segun los diferentes conceptos de obras
civiles, de esta forma se permitira acelerar las labores de implementaci6n de
los subproyectos. Asi como agilizar los tiempos de respuesta de no
objeciones a licitaciones intemacionales del Banco Mundial. Tambien se
recomend6, una mayor participaci6n de la SEDESOL en actividades de
capacitaci6n de funcionarios involucrados en la prestaci6n del servicio de
recolecci6n de residuos s6lidos.



24
7.   Finalmente, la Misi6n visit6 los rellenos sanitaros en San Juan del Rio y de
Tequisquiapan. Se pudo observar una gran mejoria en cuanto a la
operatividad y la limpieza de todas sus instalaciones. Esto ha sido un
cambio muy positivo en comparaci6n con la iltima visita del Banco .



25
LISTA DE PERSONAS ENTREVISTADAS
SEDESOL
Ing. Dinhora Guerrero              Direcci6n de Ecologia de Queretaro
Q.l. Juana Cruz R.                 SEDESOL
Lic. Alejandro Spriu               Direcci6n de Ecologia
BANOBRAS
Lic. Jorge Eugenio Boneta de la Parra   Delegado BANOBRAS
Ing. Antonio Aguilar Garcia        BANOBRAS
GOBIERNO DE QUERETARO.
Ing. Jos6 Ram6n P6rez              Direcci6n de Ecologla
Ing. Jorge Araujo Estrada          Secretaria de Gobemaci6n (CEDEM)
Ing. Fernando Mendoza              Secretara  de  Obras  Publicas  del
Gobiemo del Estado de Queretaro



PROYECTO PILOTO SOBRE EL MANEJO DE LOS RESIDUOS SOLIDOS
BENEFICIOS DEL PROYECTO
ESTADO          MUNICIPIOS (Subpr6stamos)          POBLACION    BARRIDO RECOLECC10N  TRANSFERENCiA RELLENO   TRATAMIENTO
BENEFICIADA                                                 SANITARIO
(Habitant.s)
DURANGO         DURANGO (2)                            348.036 00     x             X                                X
SINALOA         CULLACAN                               600,000.00     x             X                                X
SINALOA         MAZATLAN                               600.000 00     x             X                                X
YUCATAN         MERIDA                                 600,000 00                   X                                              X
NAYARIT         TEPIC                                  209,000 00     x             X                                X
GUERRERO        CHILPANCINGO                           140,000.00                   X
CHIHUAHUA       CHIHUAHUA                              634,000.00                   X                                X
QUINTANA ROO O P BLANCO                                 95,000.00                   X                                X
QUERETARO    QUERETARO (8)                              70,152 00                   X                                X             X
QUERETARO    TEQUISQUIAPAN                              39,692-00                   X                                X             X
QUERETARO    CORREGIDORA                                50,000 00                   x                                X             x
QUERETARO    S JUAN DEL RIO                            163.400.00                   X                                X             X
NUEVO LEON    MONTERREY             Y       AREA   2,500,000.00                     X                X               X
TOTAL                                                6,049,280.00
BENEFICIOS GENERALES:
A -EN PROMEDIO SE INCREMENTO LA RECOLECCION DE LOS RESIDUOS SOLIDOS EN UN 20% PASANDO EN ALGUNOS CASOS DEL 70% AL 96%
B -EN LA MAYORLA DE LAS CIUDADES SE IMPLEMENTARON PROYECTOS EJECUTIVOS PARA LA REALUZACION DE RELLENOS SANITARIOS
C -SE INCREMENTO LA DISPOSICION SANITARIA EN LA UAYORLA DE LOS MUNICIPIOS PARTICIPANTES. YA SEA A TRAVES DE RELLENOS SANITARIOS Y TIRADDEROS CONTROLADOS
C - SE PROMOVIERON EN ALGUNAS CIUDADES LA UTILLZACION DE SISTEMAS DE TRATAMIENTO. COMAO SON INCWNERADORES, PLANTAS DE COMPOSTA Y CENTROS DE A(OPIO
D -CON TODAS ESAS ACCIONES SE UAEJORO LA NAGEN URBANA DE LAS LOCALIDADES PARTICIPANTES EN EL PROYECTO. DISMINUYERON LOS TIRADEROS CLANDES rINUS Y FAUNA NOCIVA
NOTA SE CANCELAHON LOS SUUPRESTAMOS PARA LOS MUNICIPIOS DE CAMPECHE. CAMP Y ACAPULCO. GRO
EN TOTAL FUERON 14 SUBPRESTAMOS Y SE BENEFICIARON 21 MUNICIPIOS



PROYECTO PILOTO SOBRE EL MANEJO DE LOS RESIDUOS SOLIDOS
ASIGNACIONES DEL PRESTAMO POR CATEGORIAS INVERSIONES
(USS MILLONES)
Di;,&~~ ¶           ,  -          -   ,, ,, ,,,-u..............__ - ..... ...-~  rn   - -  r  ... .... . ... , 147  T.  .   - :
A.-COMPONENTE PILOTO
SERVICIOS    DE   CONSULTORIA    Y
ASISTENCIA TECNICA                             3.80        1.00         67.00          67.00
EQUIPO Y REFACCIONES                           4.70        9.25
Extemo                                                 100.00         100.00
Local                                                  37.00          50.00
OBRA CIVIL                                     7.15        7.15         37.00          50.00
SIN ASIGNACION                                 1.31        0.00
SUBTOTAL                                      16.96       17.40
B.- COMPONENTE NACIONAL
SERVICIOS    DE   CONSULTORIA    Y
ASISTENCIA TECNICA                             7.58        7.58         90.00         100.00
EQUIPO Y REFACCIONES                           0.02        0.02         37.00         37.00
0.00
SIN ASIGNACION                                 0.44
SUBTOTAL                                       8.04        7.60
TOTAL                                         25.00       25.00



PROYECTO PILOTO SOBRE EL MANEJO DE LOS RESIDUOS SOLIDOS
LICITACIONES DEL PROYECTO
(USS MILLONES)
EQUIPO Y REFACCIONES Y MATERIALES                 0.00       17.49          17.49          36.41
BIRF                                              1.56        7.50          9.06           18.86
OBRA CIVIL                                                   11 59          11.59          24.13
BIRF                                                          3.25           3.25           6.77
CONSULTORIA                                                   1.51           1 51           3.14
BIRF                                              1.67        3.46          5.13           10.f
SALARIOS Y SUMINISTROS
TOTAL                                             3.23       44.80         48.03          100.00
TOTAL (BIRF)                                      3.23       14.21          17.44
ICB.- Licitaci6n Internacional
LCB.-Licitaci6n Nacional



PROYECTO PILOTO SOBRE EL MANEJO DE LOS RESIDUOS SOLIDOS
FINANCIAMIENTO DEL PROYECTO
(USS MILLONES)
PROGRAMADO
C0OAL     ONEK  tiE.R[j-     B                  U     __f l                     r,-
Piloto                16.94       1 1.55             1.85            9.75       40.09
Nacional               8.06        0.45               1.4               0        9.91
Total      25.00       12.00              3.25            9.75       50.00
% del Total        50          24               6.5            19.5         100
R E A L
I - PQMPONENTE>,B                            I -B Ci -L:Tr'_ 7-ir ----. --  TI ---
Piloto                12.70       12.43              17.5           42.63
Nacional                4.7         0.7                 0            5.40
Total      17.40       13.13             17.50           48.03
% del Total       34.8       26.26               35           96.06
BIRF.- Banco Intemacional de Reconstrucci6n y Fomento
GOM.- Gobierno Mexicano
Beneficiarios.- Municipios participantes.



PROYECTO PILOTO SOBRE EL MANEJO DE LOS RESIDUOS SOLIDOS
DESEMBOLSOS TOTALES DEL PROYECTO POR ANO
(USS MILLONES)
A.. NACIONAL
ASISTENCIA TECNICA                                                                0.20         0.15   0 21     0 24                  0 80
EQUIPO Y REFACCIONES                                                              0.00         -      0 02                           0 02
OPERACION Y MANTENIMIENTO                                                         0.01        0.02   0.02      0.04                  0 09
ESTUDIOS GENERICOS                                                                0.60        0.14   0.97      0.74      -           2 45
DEFINICION DE PROBLEMAS
Y ESTUDIOS EN 26 CIUDADES                                                         0.50         0.10                                  0 60
PREPARACION DE PROYECTOS                                                          0.10          -      -       1.35                  1.45
TOTAL                                                                             1.41         0.41   1.22     2.37      -           5.41
COMPONENTE PILOTO
ASISTENCIA      TECNICA      Y
ESTUDIOS                                      011      0.25    0.01      0.06     0.14        0.17    -        048      002          1 24
EQUIPO Y REFACCIONES                          5.11     2.11    0.00      2.71     4.32        6.58   1.70      3 90     0 12        26 55
OBRA CIVIL                                    3.65      -      0.41      3.08      1.64        3.56   0.50     2D00                 14 84
TERRENOS
OTROS TRABAJOS
OPERACION Y MANTENIMIENTO
TOTAL                                         8.87     2.36    0.42      5.85     6.10        10.31   2.20     6.38     0.14        42.63
COSTO TOTAL                                   8.87     2.36    0.42      5.85     7.51        10.72   3.42     8.75     0.14        48.04



PROYECTO PILOTO SOBRE EL MANEJO DE LOS RESIDUOS SOLIDOS
DESEMBOLSOS DEL PRESTAMO 2669-ME
(USS MILLONES)
A.- NACIONAL
ASISTENCIA TECNICA                                                                  0.91       0.25      1 22    2.37                      4.75
EQUIPO Y REFACCIONES                                                                                     0 02                              0.02
SUBTOTAL:                                                                0.91        0.25      1.24    2.37                     4.77
B.- PILOTO
ASISTENCIA TECNICA                                       010    0.08        0.05                                    0.03      0 02         0.28
EQUIPO Y REFACCIONES                                     2 38    0.08       0.51      0.07                1.92      2.22     0 12           7.3
OBRA CIVIL                                                       0.33       1.99      0.54         1.37   0 15      0.79                  5.17
SUBTOTAL:                                      2.48    0.49       2.55     0.61         1.37   2.07      3.04      0.14        12.75
TOTAL                                                    2.48    0.49       2.55      0.61         1.37   2.07      3.04     0.14        17.52



PROYECTO PILOTO SOBRE EL MANEJO DE LOS RESIDUOS SOLIDOS
COSTO TOTAL REAL DEL PROYECTO
(USS MILLONES)
. .  ufoCOMPONENTESs,- ., - .,'s- LOCAL-$N  .ERNO,OTAb!
A.. NACIONAL
UNIDAD DE COORDINACION TECNICA
ASISTENCIA TECNICA                      0 80         0.00        0.80
EQUIPO Y REFACCIONES                    0.03         0 00        0.03
OPERACION Y MANTENIMIENTO               0 08         0.00        0.08
SUBTOTAL                                0.91        0.00         0.91
ESTUDIOS GENERICOS                      0.94         1.50        2.44
DEFINICION DE PROBLEMAS                 0.60         0.00        0.60
Y ESTUDIOS EN 26 CIUDADES
PREPARACION DE PROYECTOS                1 45        0.00         1.45
TOTAL                                   3.90         1.50        5.40
S. PILOTO
ASISTENCIA TECNICA Y ESTUDIOS           1 29        0.17         1 46
EQUIPO Y REFACCIONES                   24 84         1 56       26.40
OBRA CIVIL                             14.77        0.00        14 77
TERRENOS
OTPOS TRABAJOS
OPERACION Y MANTENIMIENTO
TOTAL                                  40.90        1.73        42.63
INGENIERIA Y ADMINISTRACION
COSTO BASE                             44.80        3 23        48 04
COSTO TOTAL DEL PROYECTO               44.80        3.23        48.04



Avpend±x B
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS
Sociedad Nacional de Credito
INFORME FINAL DE IMPLEMENTACION
DESCRIPCION DEL PROYECTO
PRESTAMO 2669-ME
DIRECCION ADJUNTA DE FINANCIAMIENTO
GERENCIA DE FINANCIAMIENTO A LA
INFRAESTRUCTURA Y LOS SERVICIOS
SUBGERENCIA DE RESIDUOS SOLIDOS
NOVIEMBRE, 1995.



INFORME FINAL DE IMPLEMENTACION
DESCRIPCION DEL PROYECTO
Antecedentes y Objetivos
El 9 de abri de 1986, el Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Poblicos, S.N.C.,
Institucion de Banca de Desarrollo, (BANOBRAS), como agente financiero del Gobiemo
Federal. celebro con Banco Internacional de Reconstruccion y Fomento (BIRF), este
contrato por el equivalente de 25 millones de dolares americanos destinados a financiar
el Proyecto Piloto Sobre el Manejo de Residuos S6lidos.
El contrato de Mandato entre el Gobiemo Federal y BANOBRAS se celebro el 9 de julio
de 1986 y el Proyecto del Mandato se considero elegible a partir del 9 de septiembre de
ese ano.
De acuerdo al Contrato de Mandato y al de Denvacion de Fondos, se establece que
BANOBRAS sera el Mandatano y el Gobiemo Federal, por conducto de la Secretaria de
Hacienda y Credito Publico (SHCP) el mandante. Asimismo, se establece que el
mandato sera el encargado de financiar el proyecto, recibiendo para tal efecto, en
moneda nacional, las ministraciones del Gobiemo Federal directas y los recursos del
BIRF por conducto de BANOBRAS.
La Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico, en su calidad de Mandante mediante oficio
No 1102-E-368-DGBD-920 de fecha 16 de noviembre de 1990, dio a conocer a la
Institucidn Mandatana el Acuerdo tomado por la Comisidn Intersecretaral Gasto-
Financiamiento el dia 7 de noviembre del mismo aho, relativo a incorporar a BANOBRAS
el patnmonio del Mandato, sujeto a que dicha medida no tenga impacto en el deficit
piblico y en el entendido de oue la caoitalizacion en favor de BANOBRAS se hara
mediante obligaciones subordinadas convertibles a capital De igual forma. en el refendo
oficia aicha Depencenca instruye 2 !a institucion Mancatana para que proceda en lo
conducente a la extincion del mandato.
El Mandato se llevo a cabo con fecha 31 de diciembre de 1990, la incorporacion de su
patnmonio al capital contable del Banco.
Objeto y Descripci6n
A traves del Proyecto Piloto Sobre el Manejo de Residuos S6lidos se definiran los
objetivos y politicas del subsector y se desarrollara la capacidad institucional para
mejorar la administracion y operaci6n de los residuos solidos, impulsar el servicio a
traves de proyectos demostrativos, reducir los nesgos contra la salud publica y mejorar
las condiciones ambientales de ciudades previamente seleccionadas, probar y evaluar
alternativas para promover la reduccion de costos en el servicio. proporcionar
entrenamiento y canalizar recursos federales. estatales y municipales a este subsector y
proporcionar las  bases  adecuadas  para  preparar proyectos  de operacion  y
administracion de residucs solidos a nivel nacional.
Las obras y servicios que aaoya ei Proyecto Piloto son los siguientes
-     Mejoramiento de talleres de reparacion y mantenimiento.



Sistemas de recoleccion en mercados.
Sistemas de recoleccion en zonas marginadas.
Recuperacion de matenales y diseno de instalaciones de compostaje para ser
operados de acuerdo a la demanda de matenales en el mercado.
Rellenos sanitanos regionales.
Mejoramiento de la administraci6n institucional, financiera y organizacional,
incluyendo mejoramiento de oficinas y equipo de transporte.
Desarrollo de programas educativos y materiales de soporte.
Establecimiento de estaciones de transferencia y relleno sanitano.
Establecimiento de una empresa metropolitana de administracion de residuos
solidos.
-     Estudios y Proyectos.
Categorlas de Inversi6n Asignadas
En virtud de la extincion del mandato FORTAMUN, BANOBRAS actcla como ejecutor en
la inversi6n del credito de la componentes y SEDESOL como ejecutor de la parte B. Con
fecha 16 de octubre de 1992 se elaboro la enmienda contractual al monto original,
quedando la asignacion de recursos como sigue:
Categoria          |   ronto original      Ajustado   1 PARIPASSU
Asignado USD          USO
Ejecutor BANOBRAS                                 I
Subprestamos y subsidios para ia parte " del proyecto
a)    Servicio  de  Consultoria,         3,800.000       1,000,000    67%
Asistencia   T6cnmca   y
capacitacion
b)    Equipamiento          y            4,700,000      9,250,000
Refacciones
Equipo extranjero                                              100%
Equipo nacional                                                50%
c)    Obra Civil                         7150 000       7.150.000    50%
Sin asignacion especifica          1,750,000
Subtotal:          17,400,000     17,400,000
Ejecutor SEDESOL
Parte -B" del Proyecto
a)    Servicios de Consultoria.          7,580.000       7,580.000    100%
Asistenci  a  T6cnica  y
Capacitacion.          I
b)    Equipamiento y refacciones 1          20.000 .       20.000    370
Subtotal:           7.600,000      7,600,0001
Total:          25,000.000     25,000,000 '          I



OBJETIVOS ESPECIFICOS POR COMPONENTE
COMPONENTE A
Canalizar recursos para llevar a cabo los subproyectos en las municipalidades elegibles.
Los subproyectos financiarian el desarrolto de los servicios en alrededor de 8 ciudades
medias en las cuales se incluian las siguientes: Puebla, Merida, Tialnepantla, Acapulco,
Ecatepec, Cuernavaca, Orizaba-Cordoba y 1 para el area metropolitana de Monterrey.
cada uno diseniado para mejorar la operaci6n de los sistemas de aseo urbano y la
proteccion ambiental, reduciendo costos e incrementando la eficiencia. Cabe senialar que
de estos subproyectos unicamente se formalizaron Merida, Monterrey y Acapulco.
Asimismo se considero la participacion del Municipio de Durango, a raiz de una visita por
parte de una mision de Banco Mundial a ese municipio.
COMPONENTE B
Fortalecer las capacidades de SEDESOL en el area de manejo de Residuos Solidos.
incluyendo una provision para servicios de consultores, adquisici6n y utilizacion de
equipo de oficina y materiales necesanos.
-     Hacer un estudio sobre los aspectos financieros y contables respecto a la
administraci6n de manejo de los residuos s6lidos.
-     Desarrollar y establecer un sistema de administraci6n de datos de residuos
industrales, incluyendo capacitaci6n a usuaros.
-     Disenar un programa de analisis y muestreo para mejorar las bases de datos de
la caracterizacion de los residuos solidos municipales.
-     Desarrollar una base de datos y los esquemas tecniccs para la evaluacion del
impacto ambiental de basueros a cielo abierto de residuos industriales y no
industriales.
-     Alternativas para la recoleccion y estaciones de transferencia, identificacion y
analisis de los factores de costo involucrados.
-     Evaluar mercados existentes  y  potenciales de  materiales  reciclables y
recuperables, asi como las restncciones e incentivos para el reciclaje y
recuperacion de recursos.
Preparar planes de accion para mejorar el manejo de residuos s6oidos en
aproximadamente 26 ciudades, incluyendo estudios de factibilidad.
Elaborar estudios y proyectos ejecutivos en el area de residuos solidos.



Organizaci6n y Operacidn
El Proyecto Piloto Sobre el Manejo de Residuos S6lidos institucionalmente se constituyo
a traves de un contrato de Mandato con el proposito de apoyar financieramente a los
municipios del pais previamente seleccionados, asi como apoyar las acciones de la
SEDESOL para la elaboracion de estudios y proyectos en matena de residuos solidos y
el fortalecimiento de la Unidad de Coordinacion Tecnica (UCT), de dicha Secretaria. Las
relaciones intersectonales establecidas son, con la SHCP, en su caracter de mandante
del Gobierno Federal y Coordinadora Sectorial del Proyecto como dependencia
globalizadora en cuesti6n de asignaci6n de recursos fiscales; y con la Secretaria de
Desarrollo Social.
La SHCP en terminos de coordinacion y relaci6n intersectorial, marca las politicas,
normas y procedimientos para la operacion del proyecto.
La SEDESOL en su caracter de agente tecnico fleva acciones tanto de promoci6n como
de supervision y asistencia tecnica, ademas de los estudios y proyectos sobre la materia
en diversas ciudades del pais, adicionalmente aporta recursos economicos a los
proyectos acreditados al Programa Piloto sobre el manejo de residuos solidos.
Las relaciones a nivel de gobiemos estatales y municipales se efectuan a traves de la
formalizacion de los contratos de credito, la preparacion de los analisis financieros
municipales y la canalizaci6n de recursos financieros via credito.
Los recursos que otorga la SEDESOL directamente de su presupuesto para egresos se
canalizan para las acciones del proyecto con caracter de no recuperables.
Los estados y municipios participantes en los proyectos de inversion, deben aportar
recursos proDics. ya sea en forma liauida o en esoecie como son: terrenos, mano de
obra v materiales entre otros.
Las erogaciones a efectuarse para la componente nacional tambien tienen caracter de
no recuperables.
Condiciones Financieras
Los recursos provenientes del Prestamo Extemo a canalizarse a los subprestamos a
traves de la componente A, financiar el 50% para la construccion de obra civil, 50% para
adquisicion de equipo nacional, 67% para consultoria a acreditados y 100% para
adquisici6n de equipo extranjero. Asimismo para gastos derivados de la componente
nacional B. otorga el 100% para estudios y proyectos reatizados y el 37% para
adquisici6n de equipo y refacciones.
Por lo que respecta a los recursos de contraparte nacional a asignarse por el Gobierno
Federal a traves de la Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico. estos provendrian del
Programa de Desarrollo Regional Ramo 26 (PDR) y del presupuesto de egresos de la
Secretaria  de Desarrollo Social que estas dependencias asignan a los gobiernos
estatales y rnunicipales



Las pnncipales condiciones financieras del credito se descnben a continuaci6n:
-     El plazo de terminacion estipulado para ejercer el monto total del contrato, era el
30 de junio de 1994, el cual fue ampliado hasta el 30 de junio de 1995,y debera
ser totalmente amortizado por el prestatano a mas tardar el 15 de mayo de 2001.
-     El prestatario pagara semestralmente sobre los saldos deudores un interes
equivalente al costo de captacion de los recursos del BIRF.
-     Sobre los saldos no desembolsados del financiamiento, el prestatario pagara una
comision semestralmente del 0.75% anual.
-     El Gobiemo Federal se constituye en garante de todas las obligaciones
contraidas por BANOBRAS.
-     Los bienes, trabajos y servicios para el proyecto que sean financiados con los
recursos del prestamo deber6n ser destinados de acuerdo a las condiciones
establecidas en el contrato.
-     El contrato de prestamo establece que el BIRF reembolsari y pagarn los gastos
efectuados con anteriodad a la fecha de la firma de dicho contrato por un monto
quo no exceda al equivalente de 2.5 millones de d6lares para gastos efectuados
antes de la firma del contrato pero postenor a agosto 3 de 1985.
Limitaciones a las Asignaciones de Fondos
Seran restringidas las asignaciones de fondos cuando algun documento legal sea
modificado. abrogado o suspendido en sus efectos y ello afecte materal y adversamente
la operacion y las condiciones financieras para la ejecuclon del prestam.o
No sera sujeto de desembolso el impuesto al valor agregado (IVA).
La fecha limite de desembolsos era el 30 de junio de 1994. Sin embargo con fecha 20 de
junio de 1994, mediante oficio DAF/199/94, se solicito al Banco Mundial una prorroga de
6 meses incluyendo la solicitud de canalizar 3 millones de dolares para financiar al 100%
con cargo a la componente A"acciones en los municipios de Mexicali, B.C. y Cancun, Q.
Roo., en apoyo al proyecto en preparacion de administracion financiera municipal.
Con relaci6n a la prorroga solicitada. Banco Mundial autonzo una amoliaci6n al penodo
de inversion hasta por un anio , la cual concluyo el 30 de Junio de 1995.
La solicitud de prorroga se hizo con objeto de concluir los subproyectos que se venian
ejecutando en los Estados de Queretaro Y Durango. Asimismo, se continu6 con la
ejecucion de estudios y proyectos
RESULTADOS DE LA IMPLEMENTACION Y LOS O8JETIVOS DEL PROYECTO
El proyecto financio un total de 18 subproyectos. de los cuales dos subproyectos se
cancelaron. uno en la municipalidad de Campeche por falta de disponibtlidad de recursos
scales v otro en la rnunricpalidad de Acapulcc cebido a cue en ei municicio acreditado
-c Ss 3fec:aron os rccyscs creoitic!cs.



desarrollo institucional del sistema de gesti6n de residuos s6lidos a nivel nacional,
estudio sobre finanzas y aspectos contables de los sistemas de limpia del pais y la
producci6n de dos videos del proyecto piloto de residuos s6lidos en Merida, Yuc.
Lo anterior represento un gasto dentro del credito BIRF de 0.611 millones de dolares
cuadro 4 ).
Con respecto a los planes de preparacion de estudios de factibilidad en 26 cludades Se
realizaron 8 estudios de prefactibilidad y 6 de factibilidad. asimismo se realizo el plan
maestro de residuos solidos, que consistio en 50 estudios a nivel diagnostico
(equivalente a prefactibilidad) y 25 ciudades a nivel anteproyecto . Estos estudios
representaron un total de 1.9 millones de dolares (cuadro 5 ).
Se desarrollaron proyectos ejecutivos de rellenos sanitanos en los municipios de
Tecamac y Huilango, Edo.Mex; Naucalpan, Edo. Mex.; San Luis Rio Colorado,
Son.:,Piedras Negras, Coah.: Torreon, Coah.;Tapachula, Chis.; Irapuato, Gto.; Pachuca,
Hgo.: Puerto Vallarta, Jal. y Celaya Gto. Estos proyectos representaron 1.18 millones de
dolares (cuadro 6 ).
FACTORES QUE AFECTARON AL PROYECTO
La insuficiencia de una politica sectofial, asi como las limitaciones en la normatividad
federal y reglamentos en el subsector de residuos solidos incidieron negativamente en el
interes de los estados y municipios en implantar acciones de saneamiento b;asico, la
enmienda al Mandato postergo las formalizaciones que se tenian previstas, la falta de
una bolsa integradora de recursos que participara de los desembolsos, asi como de la
carencia de asistencia tecnica.
Por otro lado. se considera que al inicio del provecto no se le concedio la importancia
que requeria por parte de Bancc  ur,dial. ya clue !as misiones ce evaluaci6n se hacian
una o dos veces al ano, razon por la cual la supervision del proyecto se retardaba
dejando de lado los objetivos y restandole importancia a la promocion.
La falta de especificaciones tecnicas y cnterios de evaluacion para llevar a cabo las
licitaciones, retrasaban en mucho, tanto en las decisiones para calificar como para los
licitantes elegibles, que en muchos de los casos tenian que volver a presentar la
documentacion a falta de algun requisito.
La carencia de un manual de operacion administrativo para la aplicaci6n de los recursos
que situara las bases para una mejor operacron.
Se ha estimado que el costo total de la componente A y B ascendi6 a US$43.3 millones
y US$5.3 millones respectivamente. De los cuales el Banco Mundial financio un total de
US17.7 millones (37 0%) del costo total del proyecto. Gobierno Federal US$13 millones
(28.6%) y el resto US$17.7 millones (36%) por los gobiernos locales.



Sin embargo, se considera que el Proyecto Piloto fue exitoso , ya que en los
subproyectos financiados parcialmente con recursos extemos se incremento la cobertura
de recoleccion pasando del 60% al 90% en promedio, beneficiandose del orden de 25.1
millones de habitantes en todo el pais que correspondieron a 19.11 millones de
habitantes a la componente nacional y 6.0 millones de habitantes a la componente piloto.
Se ampli6 la coordinaci6n entre el agente tecnico y el agente financiero para una mejor
asistencia a las autordades estatales y municipales en la realizaci6n de los
subproyectos, ofreciendo una mayor capacidad tecnica.
La operaci6n e implementaci6n del Proyecto Piloto dio a los gobiemos de los estados y
municipios mayor autonomia en el manejo del presupuesto, asi como efectividad en la
cobertura del servicio de los residuos s6lidos.
Se logro la participacion activa de las delegaciones estatales del Banco para una mayor
difusi6n del proyecto.
Se desarrollaron estudios que permitieron ampliar las politicas federales para el
subsector.
Se impuls6 la identificaci6n de los costos de la prestaci6n del servicio y la politica de
recuperaca6n de los mismos, entre los que destacan los estudios de Mrida, Yuc.;
Chihuahua,Chih.; Culiacan y Mazatlin, Sin., ash como el del SIMEPRODE.
Se instrumentaron convenios de colaboraci6n a traves de los cuales se busca fortalecer
la capacidad tecnica de los municipios para la buena operaci6n de sus sistemas como
fue el caso de Queretaro y Tepic, Nay., en los que BANOBRAS conjuntamente con
SEDESOL y los gobiemos de los estados impulsaron cursos de capacitacion dirgido a
Presidentes Municipales. funcionanos de segundo nivel y operadores del servicio.
Por to que respecta a la componente piloco e! rnonto total de inversion real fue de 43.28
millones de d6lares, el monto programado era de 40.09 millones de d6lares.
Sin embargo, con recursos de Banco Mundial onicamente se financiaron 12.86 millones
de los 16.94 programados lo que representa la utilizacion del 75% de los recursos. Cabe
senalar que la diferencia correspondi6 a la aportacion federal y municipal, por lo que se
puede decir que el objetivo planteado en esta componente se cumpli6. Asimismo, los
recursos que se cancelaron del prestamo fueron de 7.3 millones de d6lares (cuadros 1 y
:3)
La componente nacional financio las siguientes acciones: asistencia tecnica y
fortalecimiento de la SEDESOL que consisti6 en adquisici6n de equipo de computo y fax,
asi como de su mantenimiento, la adquisicion de un vehiculo, consultora, viaticos y
transporte. Ademas de supervision de obras para la implantacion de los sistemas de
control administrativo operativo del SIMEPRODE asi como el estudio tarifario del
SIMEPRODE.
Para estas acciones se realizo un desembolso por parte del BIRF de 1 07 millones de
dolares (cuadro 2 )
Dentro de los estudios genericos se realizaron los relativos al moacto ambiental asi
=cm cae enrases y emoalales  estudlc ce ccc:ores cara la csa'tc ca7ion de 'a oe0ena
en ei manelo oe resiauos solidos. estualo de costos ce Ics sistemas ae limpla del pals.



EVALUACI1N BANOBRAS
El proyecto piloto sobre el manejo de residuos solidos fue concebido en el ano de 1983
con el fin de coadyuvar a la solucion de los problemas que enfrentaban los municipios
del pais. en matena de limpia publica, el perfil de dicho proyecto fue elaborado en el anio
de 1985. Su formalizacion Institucional se vio reflejado a traves de la constitucion del
Mandato FORTAMUN de fecha 9 de julio de 1986. No obstante lo anterior, diversos
problemas institucionales y financieros, presupuestales y de concertacion limitaron la
puesta en marcha del proyecto.
El Proyecto Piloto onginalmente contemplaba la participacion de 16 municipios, de los
cuales 10 de ellos confirmaron su participacion y 6 declinaron dicha invitacion. Debido a
lo anteror Ia SEDUE hoy la SEDESOL promovio la integracion de nuevos proyectos en
localidades con problemas significativos en materia de residuos solidos, como es el caso
de la zona conurbada de Tampico- Ciudad Madero - Altamira, Tamps.; Guadalajara Jal.;
Chilpancingo y Taxco, Gro.; Uruapan, Mich.; Culiacan y Mazatlan, Sin.
Lo anterior, aunado a diversos problemas de tipo presupuestal retrasaron el inicio del
Proyecto Piloto, hasta los prmeros meses del a6io de 1988 cuando entro en operaci6n el
Proyecto de Monterrey, N.L. denominado SIMEPRODE y Merida, Yuc. y en amortizaci6n
el credito otorgado a Durango, Dgo.
Al 31 de diciembre de 1990 el creddto autorizado a Acapulco, Gro., aun no ejercia
cantidad alguna, mientras que SIMEPRODE y Mrida, Yuc. registraron un atraso
considerable en su credito autorzado. Asimismo, la cancelaci6n de los creditos
otorgados a Naucalpan, Mex. y al Gobiemo del Estado de Tamaulipas contrbuyeron en
parte, a las desviaciones tan significativas entre el Programa Financiero y el ejercido
durante el afio.
Por lo anterior, el avance del prcOyec,o dur,ame el penodo enero-dic,embre que se
comenta, manifesto desviaciones significativas en especial en los rubros de
desembolsos BIRF y otorgamiento de credito.
El dia 22 de octubre de 1990 fue firmado el Convenio Modificatorio al Contrato de
Apertura de Credito celebrado entre BANOBRAS y el Gobiemo Federal por conducto de
las Secretarias de Hacienda y Credito Publico y Programacion y Presupuesto, en donde
se senialan los siguientes puntos como principal modificacion al contrato original.
a)    Extincion del mandato FORTAMUN.
b)    El pago de los intereses, comisiones de compromiso y capital generado en la
parte A del proyecto sera cubierto por BANOBRAS a partir del 15 de noviembre
de 1990.
C)    El pago de los intereses. comisiones de compromiso y capital generado en la
parte B del proyecto correspondiente a la participacion de SEDUE (hoy
SEDESOL) en el proyecto, sera liquidado por el Gobierno Federal.
d )   Establece el mecanismo para el desembolso de recursos de Banco Mundial a
traves del Bancc de Mexico



Con fecha 30 de octubre se fommaliza la enmienda al Contrato de Prestamo y Garantia
(2669 ME), mediante la cual se estipulan las modificaciones para la operacion de
Proyecto Piloto sobre el Manejo de Residuos S6lidos.
En virtud de la extinci6n del Mandato, BANOBRAS actua como ejecutor en la inversion
del credito y se comienza a dar salida a los subproyectos que se encontraban atorados
por la indefinicion de las instituciones que integraban el Mandato, asi como de las
causas amba mencionadas. Los prmeros subproyectos que se realizan son: Chihuahua,
Chih.; Chilpancingo, Gro, Culiacan , Mazatlan, Sin, y Oth6n P. Blanco Q. Roo.
Se empiezan a desarrollar estudios que permiten ampliar las politicas federales para el
subsector, se fortalece institucionalmente a los encargados de la prestaci6n del servicio,
se impulsa la identificacion de los costos de la prestacion del servicio asi como las
politicas de recuperacion de los mismos.
En octubre de 1991, las autordades municipales de Tepic, Nay. gestionaron ante el
BANOBRAS un credito para la implementacion de un proyecto integral de residuos
s6lidos. Dicho proyecto fue desarrollado durante 1992 y a solicitud de la SEDESOL se
replantearon los alcances del mismo, pasando a fommar parte del Proyecto Piloto de
Residuos Sblidos en ese mismo afio.
Las acciones consideradas an este fueron:
Banido mecanico, recolecci6n y disposici6n final, asi como acciones de fortalocimiento
municipal.
En virtud del impacto que ha tenido este subproyecto el Gobiemo del Estado de Nayant
tuvo a bien formar un Comite de Coordinaci6n Municipal el cual presta asistencia tecnica
a los demas municipios del estado. A peticion de esta coordinacion BANOBRAS a
pnncipios de 1995, apoyo conjumnarrente con SEDESOL y las autordades municipales
de Tepic. Ia instrumentacion ce un CuIso de cacacitacion a nivel estatal en la que
participaron Presidentes Municipaies y operadores del sistema.
En 1992 una mision de Banco Mundial, visit6 la Cd. de Durango detectando algunas
carencias en la gestion de los residuos sblidos municipales pnncipalmente en la
recolecci6n y disposicion final de los residuos. BANOBRAS en coordinacion con
SEDESOL prepararon un diagn6stico y planteamiento de soluciones para resolver las
carencias antes sefialadas.
El esquema de inversi6n formulado por ambas instituciones considero acciones de
barrido mecanico, adquiscion y renabilitacion de venicuios recolectores, construccion de
un camino de acceso para el relleno sanitano y equipamiento para la operacion del
mismo, asi como acciones de fortalecimiento institucional.
Con base a las visitas de supervision a esa localidad se pudo detectar que las
autoridades municipales han tenido algunos problemas en el desarrollo de su labor en
cuanto a la limitacion de asistencia tecnica para la operacion de rellenos sanitarios. asi
como la subutilizacion de los equipos recolectores por carecerse de politicas
opeiacionales en lo referente a las rutas.
Ante tales circunstanc as BANOBRAS promnovic ante as autoridaces rnunicipales si



En 1992, a solicitud del Gobiemo del Estado de Queretaro BANOBRAS realiz6 un
diagnostico sobre la gesti6n de los residuos solidos municipales en 9 localidades de la
sierra ( Jalpan. Toliman, Landa de Matamoros, Pinal de Amoles, Arroyo Seco, Ezequiel
Montes, Pedro Escobedo, Cadereyta y San Joaquin) y 3 localidades del Valle
(Corregidora, Tequisquiapan y San Juan del Rio) .
Postenormente en 1993 la SEDESOL retomo los diagnosticos de los municipios antes
senalados, los avalo y los remiti6 a Banco Mundial para su elegibilidad.
Durante 1994 se llevo a cabo el proceso de desembolsos para la ejecucion de las
acciones tendientes a resolver la problematica que consistieron en la adquisicion de
equipos recolectores. construccion de obras civiles y equipamiento para rellenos
sanitanos, adquisicion de incineradores para el tratamiento de los residuos
potencialmente peligrosos y el equipamiento para centros de acopio.
BANOBRAS en coordinaci6n con las autoridades estatales y municipales instrumentaron
convenios de colaboracion a traves de los cuales se busca fortalecer la capacidad
tecnica de los municipios para la buena operacion de sus sistemas. Para ello a fines de
1994, BANOBRAS conjuntamente con SEDESOL y Gobiemo del Estado impulsaron el
pnmer curso de capacitacion dirigido a Presidentes Municipales, Funcionarios de
segundo nivel y operadores.
Para cumplir cabalmente con sus funciones la Subgerencia de Residuos s6lidos de
BANOBRAS en 1994 se reestructuro contando con mas elementos en cada uno de los
rubros que la gesti6n del proyecto requeria. Los mismos que han sido capacitados en los
aspectos tecnicos, financieros y economicos.
Con relacion a las acciones que se ejecutaron en cada uno de los subproyectos
consideramos, que para evitar algunos tropiezos que nos dejaron las experiencias
anteriores se requiere de imorusar ei fortalecimiento de las partes operativas e
jniermedias de los proyectos er -c -?e-r9nte a la ootimizacdon y racionalizacion del uso
de los vehiculos recolectores y ael bamdo mecanico, la instrumentacion de politicas
operacionales y de control en los rellenos sanitahos, formulacion de especificaciones
tecnicas para la adquisicion de equipos par la recolecci6n, disposici6n final y tratamiento
Difusion de metodologias para la investigacion de mercados para la explotaci6n de
subproductos viables a reciclar y de composta, instrumentacion de normas para el
transporte e incineracion de subproductos biomedicos y por ultimo la proyecci6n de
acciones  de  fortalecimiento  institucional  como  son  disenio  de  estructuras
organizacionales. structuras t3rifarnas y de spcts publicitarios, asi como de marcos
legales.
EVALUACION DE SEDESOL
A fin de fortalecer la supervision y asistencia tecnica a los acreditados, fue creada la
Unidad de Coordinacion Tecnica adquiriendose equipos de computo y fax. para el control
y la comunicacion y un vehiculo austero para visitar a diversas localidades y otros
movimientos



El fortalecimiento de los organismos acreditados se dio con la adquisici6n e implantacion
del equipo de computo para el control operativo del SIMEPRODE ademas de un estudio
tarifano.
El complemento a lo antenor, se contrato la supervisi6n para la realizacion de obras y
equipamiento del SIMEPRODE y en las ciudades de Merda, Yuc., y Chihuahua. Chih.
EVALUACION DEL BANCO
Se considera que al inicio del proyecto la participacion del Banco no se dio en la forma
requenda en mucho se piensa que el Mandato abarcaba varos programas que se les
consideraba de mayor importancia para las misiones que venian a supervisar, ademas
de que estas se hacian dos o tres veces por aho, lo cual retardaba los objetivos
orginales asi como la promocion de los subproyectos.
A partir de 1992, con la integracion del Sr. John Stein por parte de Banco Mundial al
Proyecto, se retoman los objetivos y se inicia una revisi6n constante del proyecto
impulsandose la promocion del mismo.
Los trimites y las gestiones para la no objeci6n de los subproyectos se empiezan a
agilizar dandole al proyecto celeridad y una mayor oportunidad para la realizaci6n de
estos.
Los resultados del proyecto durante las prmeras visitas a partir de 1992 tenian un
avance minimo, ya que se detecto por parte de las misiones la necesidad de fortalecer
la UCT como una condicion basica para el desarrollo del proyecto, ya que la mayoria de
los problemas encontraccs se -soc3ban a la falta de asescramiento y apoyo por su
parte y al escaso grado de ejecz. -n ce ios es:ucios especificos.
La ejecucion del proyecto fue progresando satisfactoriamente, de acuerdo a las ayudas
de memoria que se revisaron a la fecha. Durante las misiones se hicieron las
observaciones que se creian pertinentes, se evaluaba el estado de avance del proyecto
y la programacion de los recursos, asi mismo se fue ennqueciendo tanto a la
componente piloto como a la nacional con estudios especificos y la preparacion de un
plan maestro, definiendo altemativas tecnicas para el diseno de un Plan Nacional de
Residuos S6lidos, analizando los problemas existentes para cada localidad o bien un
conjunto de ellas con las soluciones tecnicamente mas apropiadas y sus costos.
Ademas, los retrasos en las ultimas no objeciones de las licitaciones publicas
intemacionales motivadas por deficiencias en la documentacion de evaluaci6n
presentada por los acreditados, ya que los cntenos de evaluacion de las mismas asi
como las bases de concurso pnncipalmente en lo que respecta a especificaciones
tecnicas no eran claras y la tardanza en la respuesta del Banco a las solicitudes de no
objecibn.
Durante la misi6n de Banco Mundial del 15 al 30 de junio de 1995. con el objeto de
evaluar las actividades alcanzadas en el Proyecto Piloto de Residuos S6lidos. SEDESOL
y BANOBRAS reiteraron la necesidad de una mayor supervision por parte de Barnco



Con respecto a las adquisiciones de equipo, ejecuci6n de obras civiles y elaboracion de
estudios y proyectos, estas se llevaron a cabo en apego estricto a las leyes de
adquisiciones y obra publica. Para la publicacion de las convocatoras, BANOBRAS
asistio a los suietos de credito con la presentacion y contenido de las mismas, en lo
referente a las bases de concurso la Instituci6n tambien apoyo a los acreditados con
especificaciones tecnicas de los equipos y con la revision de los proyectos ejecutivos
para las obras civiles, asi mismo otorgo terminos de referencia para la elaboracion de
estudios y proyectos .
En lo referente a la evaluacion de las propuestas BANOBRAS apoyo con critenos de
evaluacion principalmente para la construcci6n de obras civiles y estudios y proyectos.
Generalmente la adquisicion de los equipos se hizo a traves de convocatorias
internacionales, las obras civiles en su mayoria fueron a traves de convocatorias
nacionales exceptuando las obras de Durango y del Estado de Queretaro las cuales se
ejecutaron por administracion directa .
BENEFICIOS LOGRADOS
Los beneficios obtenidos con la realizaci6n de estudios especificos por localidad, los
realizados a Nivel Nacional y Proyectos Ejecutivos, son trascendentes ya que las
entidades, los municipios y publico usuano, han cambiado su actitud hacia el buen
manejo de los residuos solidos, conscientes de que asi se cuida la salud y se preserva el
medio ambiente. Los organismos encargados de la operaci6n y administraci6n, han
mejorado su eficiencia, optimizando el uso de los recursos, esto es porque han tomado
muy en cuenta las recomendaciones emitidas en los estudios de diagnostico. Con la
realizacion de los Proyectos E:ect:,,os para Relleno Sanitano se esta en condiciones de
tener una disposicicn sanriana ae a basura. preservanco asi las cuencas hidrol6gicas y
evitando la contaminacion de mantos acuiferos. Identificar los habitantes beneficiados
con estos Estudios y Proyectos Ejecutivos resultaria erroneo, puesto que los hay
especificos para ciudades y los hay generales en los estudios a Nivel Nacional, sin
embargo se puede estimar en 19.1 millones de habitantes.
SJBGE-RE.-.A CE RE_c .S S__ C_S



CUADRO 1
BANOBRAS
COORDINACION EJECUTIVA DE CREDITOS AL SECTOR PUBLICO
DIVISION DE DESEMBOLSOS BID-BIRF
ESTADO DE CUENTA DE DESEMBOLSOS DEL CREDITO 2669-ME
DESECHOS SOLIDOS AL 30 DE SEPTIEMBRE DE 1995
U.S. DOLARES
........._ ...                                   boI r 
BANOBRAS          1        17,400,000.00    12,858,927.19   4,541,072.81      0.00
Serv.Cons.  a     A         1,000,000.00     394,145.06    605,854.94         0.00
Capacitaci6n
Equipo     y      B         9,250,000.00   9,148,658.73    101,341.27         0.00
Refacciones
Obras Civiles     C         7,150,000.00    3,316.123.40   3,833,876.60       0.00
SEDESOL    j    2           7.600.00r.00   4,784.767.25   2,815,232.75        0.00
Serv.Cons.  a     A         7,580,000.00    4,777,149.55   2,802.850.45       0.00
Capacitacion
Equipo     y      B           20,000 00        7,617.70     12,382.30
Refacciones
Cuenta            C                0.00       25,041.11     12,382.30
Especial
Suma               25,000.000.00    17,688.735.55   7.331.264.45       0.00
RECURSOS CANC          S 7                                    I             I
RECURSOS CANCELADOS: 7,331,264.45 US



CUADRO NUM. 2
PROYECTO PILOTO SOBRE EL MANEJO DE LOS RESIDUOS SOLIDOS
FINANCIAMIENTO DEL PROYECTO
U.S. MILLONES DE DOLARES
PROGRAMADO
Coi nente        BIRF           4QM         SEDUE   BENEFTCIARIOS        TOTAL
Piloto                16.94         11.55        1.85             9.75         40.09
Nacional               8.06          0.45         1.4               0           9.91
Total         25.00         12.00        3.25            9.75          50.00
% del Total           50            24         6.5             19.5           100
REAL
Piloto                      12.861           12.92            11231            43.28
Nacional                     4.78              0.7                0             5.48
Total            17.64            13.62            17.50            48.76
% del Total           35.28            27.24                             97.52
BIRF.- Banco Intemacional de Reconstruccion y Fomento
GOM.- Gobiemo Mexicano
Beneficianos.- MuniciDios participantes



CUADRO NUM. 3
PROYECTO PILOTO DE RESIDUOS SOLIDOS
A.- ASISTENCIA TECNICA Y FORTALECIMIENTO A SEDESOL Y BENEFICIARIOS
PARTE "B"
: 7 : 7 : 7 : ~~~~.   T:... ... . .... . . .   . ...     . . . ,   .    . ;    . . . . . . ... ..........i 
:Orgen do tis recursos en milfones da dolare
Accion
Pfscaiea   8~~~IRF:       .T.. .a..
Aco : 0 :Et W    ia-0| :-00Q0: ;:  .f0.. ......... ................... :.,,fCtiT
Fortalecimiento de la SEDESOL
Adquisicion Equipo de Computo y Fax      0.0072        0.0189          0.0261
Adquisici6n de Vehiculo                  0.0048        0.0037          0.0085
Mlantenimiento de Equipo de C6mputo      0.0002        0.0019          0.0021
Consultona                               0.0641        0.5538          0.6179
Viaticos y Transporte                    0.0067        0.0743          0.0810
A los beneficiahos
Supervisi6n de Obras
SIMEPRODE Y                              D. 0385       0 0270          0.0655
SIMEPRODE II                              .0367        0.0288          0.0655
Menida ill                               0.0117        0.0092          0.0209
Chihuahua, Chih.                         0.0051        0.0565          0.0617
Implantacion de los sistemas de control    0.0169      0.1872          0.2041
administrativo y operativo del Sistema
Metropolitano  de  Procesamiento  de
Desechos S6lidos de Monterrey N L.
Estudio Tanfano del Sistema Metropolitano  0.0112      0.1040          0.1152
de Procesamiento de Desechos S6lidos en
Monterrey
Subtotal     0.20          1.07            1.27
FUENTE. DIRECCION DE RESIDUOS SOLIDOS



CUADRO NUM. 4
PROYECTO PILOTO DE RESIDUOS SOLIDOS
B.- ESTUDIOS GENERICOS Y PREPARACION DE PROYECTOS
PARTE "B"
Or.g.fen   l hs mcumos *n maiones. e dolares
Accion
l-                                                 -   -    .   .  .,    -.-   .   ... , . .._,. , .. -. , ::., .... , :-:. ::-.- - .. .......     .-:-:
Fiscahw..       R               i
Estudios Especificos:
Impacto Ambiental de los Residuos S6lidos  0.0145       0.1794           0.1939
de Envases y Embalajes a nivel nacional
Manejo   y Reciclaje de Residuos de       0.0000        0.1626           0.1626
Envases y Embalajes Intem.
Estudio de Opciones para la particiDaci6n 1 0.0029      0.0477           0.0506
de la pepena' en el manepo de resleThs i 
solidos.                        |y1
Produccion de dos videos del Proyecto    0.0017         0.0213           0.0230
Piloto de Residuos Solidos en Merida. Yuc.
[ Etudio de Costos de los Sistemas de      0.0029        0.0477           0.0506
Limpia del Pais
tDesarrollo Institucional del Sistema de   0.0000        0.1036           0.1036
I ,ection  le  Dpsiduoc5 '>5idos a rnivel
i nacional.
[Estudios  sobre  finanzas  y  aspectos    0.0029        0.0478           0.0507
contables de los sistemas de limpia del
paSs                                                              i
SUBTOTAL:      0.0233         0.6112           0.6344



CUADRO NUM. 5
PROYECTO PILOTO DE RESIDUOS SOLIDOS
C.- PLANES DE PREPARACION DE ESTUDIOS DE FACTIBILIDAD EN 26 CIUDADES
PARTE "B"
O-rigen di ts recursos en miltones de dolares 
Accion
....: .: .. .   ..   .                     .   ... ..   ...   ..   .   . . : I 
Ff ctesUF                       ha
Estudios de prefactibilidad
Cancun. Q. Roo                            0.022         0.017          0.039
Cuemavaca, Mor.                           0.021         0.017          0.038
Villahermosa, Tab.                        0.021         0.016          0.038
Tlaxcala, Tiax.                           0.022         0.017          0.039
Chilpancingo, Gro.                        0.020        0.016           0.037
Parral, Chih.                             0.019        0.015           0.034
Xalapa, Ver.                              0.020         0.016          0.036
Saltillo, Coah.                           0.019        0.015           0.034
Estudios de Factibilidad
Coatzacoalcos y Minatitlan, Ver.          0.006         0.067          0.072
Tuxpan, Ver                               0.002        0.028           0.030
San Luis Potosi y Ciudad Valles. S.L.P.   0.006        0.068           0.074
Iguala y Taxco, Gro.                     0.004         0.051           0.055
Ensenada, B.C.                            0.003        0.030           0.033
Oaxaca y Puerto Escondido, Oax.           0.006        0.067           0.072
D"in Maestro ee P-6 zrFIUid'                                             591
Subtotal j    0.312        1.910          2.222
FUENTE. DIRECCION DE RESIDUOS SOLIDOS



CUADRO NUM. 6
PROYECTO PILOTO DE RESIDUOS SOLIDOS
D- EVALUACION Y PREPARACION DE PROYECTOS INTEGRALES EN GRAN ESCALA
PARTE "B"
Origen d hs- recursos en mones a dolara
Accion
Proyectos   Ejecutivos   de   Relleno
Sanitario.
Temac y Huilango, Edo. de Mexico         0.004         0.050           0.054
Naucalpan, Mex.                          0.003         0.034           0.036
Villahefnosa, Tab.                       0.021         0.016           0.038
Tlaxcala, Tiax.                          0.022         0.017           0.039
Chilpancingo, Gro.                       0.020         0.016           0.037
Parral, Chih.                            0.019         0.015           0.034
Xalapa. Ver.                             0.020         0.016           0.036
Saltillo, Coan.                          0.019         0.015           0.034
Estudios de Factibilidad
Coatzacoalcos y Minatitlan, Ver.         0.006         0.067           0.072
Tuxpan, Ver                              0.002         0.028           0.030
San Luis Potosi y Ciudad Valles, S.L.P.  0.006         0.068           0.074
Iguala y Taxco, Gro.                     0.004         0.051           0.055
Ensenada, B.C.                           0.003         0.030           0.033
.vx.e- y' , eror Escondido. ax           0.006        , 067           0.072
Plan Maestro de Residuos S6lidos         0.122         1.469           1.591
Subtotal     0.312        1.910           2.222
FUENTE DIRECC:ON DE RESIDUOS SOLIDOS









I






I MA I:  N G r
R.eport No:         1 5896
Type: ICR



