Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5952-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
March 5, 1986
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by mcipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Mexican Peso (Mex$)
Calendar 1984         (Appraisal)
Currency Unit           Average          August 03, 1985   December 30, 1985
US$1.00               Mex $167.8             Mex $246         Hex $ 367
Mex $1.00  =          US  S  0.006           US  $0.004       US  $   0.003
Mex S1,000 =          US  $  5.96            US  $4.07        US  $   2.73
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AZOMAR   -  Programa para Atencion a las Zonas Marginadas (Program for At-
tention to Marginated Zones)
BANOBRAS -  Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos (National Bank for
Public Works and Services)
BM       -  Beneficiary Municipality/Metropolitan Area
CUD      -  Convenio Unico de Desarrollo (Special Development Agreement)
DGPCCA   -  Direccion G,eneral de Prevencion y Control de Contaminacion
Ambiental (General Directorate for Prevention and Control of
Environmental Contamination)
FIFAPA   -  Fondo de Inversiones Financieras para Agua Potable y Alcanta-
rillado (Investments Fund for Water Supply and Sewerage Works)
FM       -  Fondo Fiduciario Federal de Fomento Municipal (Small Municipal-
ities' Development Fund)
FORTAMUN -  Programa de Fortalecimiento Municipal (Municipal Strengthening
Program)
COM      - Government of Mexico
MSP      -  Municipal Strengthening Project
SAHOP    -  Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos y Obras Publicas  (Secre-
tariat of Human Settlements and Public Works)
SEDUE    -  Secretaria de Desarrollo Urhano y Ecologia (Secretariat of
Urban Development and Ecology)
SC,      -  Secretaria de Gobernacion (Secretariat of the Interior)
SHCP     -  Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (Secretariat of Fi-
nance and Public Credit)
SPP      -  Recretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto (Secretariat of Pro-
gramming and Budgeting)
UC       -  Urldad Coordinadora del Proyecto (Project Coordinating Unit)



- i -            FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMHARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ili-vi
I.   THE SECTOR/SUBSECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
The Setting  . . .  . . . . .               . . . . . . .    1
Subsector Organozation .  a o . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Subsector Operational Performance. . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Subsector Investments and Financing. . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Subsector Objectives and Constraints   . . . . . . . . .    4
Bank Sector/Subsector Strategy and Rationale for Bank
Involvement. . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .    5
TI.  THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Project Background, Origin and Concept . . . . . . . . . .    6
Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Project Cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
Project Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Key Executing Agencies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Project Monitoring and Progress Reporting. . . . . . . . .   12
Procurement, Disbursement and Special Account. . . . . . .   13
Audit .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  14
Status of Project Preparation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
Benefits and Riskcs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
III.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . .   15
LIST OF TABLES
2.1 Project Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission whicb visited
Mexico from July 15 to August 5, 1985. The mission was composed of
Messrs./Mme. Emmanuel Mbi, Economist (Mission Leader); Luis Pereira,
Financial Analyst; Eric Willianms, Consultant; and Sandra Cointreau,
Consultant. Ms. Madeline DeVan (LCPWS) assisted in the preparation of the
report.
I This docunmnt has a rsiteddiribution and may be used by recients only in the prformannc
of thi ofclW duti Its contents may not otherwie be dicksed wihout Wodd Bnk authorniatoL



- ii -
Page No.
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.  Bank Loans to Mexico for Water Supply and Sewerage . . . .   18
2.  Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
3.  Terms of Reference for Solid Waste Subsector
Development Studies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
4.  Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to SEDUE
and Municipalities . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . ....    46
5.  Human Resources and Level of Effort of SEDUE and . .
Consultants by Component . o . .    . .        .   .    49
6.  Overview of Some Subsector Tssues  . ...     . . . . .   50
7.  Overview of Solid Waste Management In Beneficiary Cities .   53
8.  Project Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   61
9.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   67
10.  Projected Annual Investments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   68
11.  Project Implementation Schedules . . . . . . . . . . . . .   74
12.  Project Financing Plan and Implerentation Procedures . . .   76
13.  Funds Flow Chart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   79
14.  Operating Principles and Governing Conditions of Project
Line of Credit . . . . . . . . . . .  .  . .  .  . . . . . .   80
15.  Provisions for Onlending Agreement between BAJOBRAS and
Municipalities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   84
16.  Selection and Design Criteria. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   87
17.  Loan Disbursement Schedule  . . . ......... .          .   88
18.  Project Cost by Procurement Metbod . . . . . . . . . . . .   90
19.  Organization Charts  .   . .... .            . . . . ..   91
20.  Terms of Reference for SEDUE Project Coordinating Unit . .   93
21.  Metbodology for Financial Appraisal of Beneficiary
Municipalities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   96
22.  BANOBRAS Finances, Future Plans and Orientation. . . . . .   99
23.  Monitoring Indicators. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  106
24.  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File. . .  107
MAPS
IBRD Map No. 19423 - Citles in Pilot Component
IBRD Map No. 19424 - Monterrey Metropolitan Area



- iii -
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAUUEMENT PILOT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.
(BANOBRAS).
Guarantor:      United Mexican States
Beneficiaries:  The Monterrey Metropolitan Area, eight medium-sized munici-
palities, Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology
(SEDUE) and BANOBRAS.
Amount:         US$25.0 million equivalent.
Terms:          Repayment in 15 years, including tbree years of grace, witb
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Relending
Terms:          For  the  implementation  of  subprojects  under the pilot
component, the peso equivalent of the Loan would be made
available to the Beneficiaries (BMs) with a 15-year
repayment period including a grace period equal to the
shorter of the construction period or four years, at
interest  rates  specified in  the  General  Interest  Rate
Agreement  (GIRA).    Each  subloan  would  he  secured  by
contractual agreements among BANOBRAS,  the BNs and  the
State Governments, with  SEDUE as  a  party.   Funds for
technical assistance and training would be provided as
grants.   For the national component, the proceeds of the
Loan would he made available to SEDUE and BANOBRAS on a
grant basis.   The Covernment of Mexico would bear the
foreign exchange and interest risks.
Project
ObJectives and
Description:    The objectives of the proposed project are to:  (a) assist
C-On to more clearly define solid waste subsector ohjectives
and policies and to develop national and local institution-
al capability to improve subsector management; (b) to im-
prove subsector services through pilot suhprojects, reduce
public bealth risks and improve environmental conditions in
selected cities; (c) test and evaluate alternatives for
promoting cost savings, providing training and channelling
funds in the solid waste subsector; and (d) to provide a
basis for preparing full-scale solid waste management im-
provement projects.



- iv -
The project designed to meet these objectives comprises two
components.    The  pilot  component  will  finance  the
development,   testing   and   evaluation   of   replicable
techniques for the delivery of services in about eight
medium-sized municipalities and one metropolitan area.
These will include among others, improved repair and
maintenance facilities, a metropolitan waste management
enterprise in Monterrey, transfer stations and materials
recovery facilities, sanitary landfills and industrial
waste cemeteries, and development of public education
campaigns  and  materials  and  training  materials.    The
national component, wbich would be fxecuted at the federal
level, would finance technical assistance, consulting
services, studies, and equipment to: (i) define subsector
policies and options for effective and efficient delivery
of serviceq and to reduce dependence on the Government's
budget; (ii) strengtben institutions; (iii) develop plans
to  address  subsector  constraints;  (iv)  undertake  plan
preparation and prefeasibility studies in 26 selected
cities; and (v) prepare follow-on solid waste management,
projects.
Benefits:       The project would generate cost savings by:  introducing
better equipment maintenance and repair systems; reducing
vebicle mileage through the establishment of intermediate
transfer stations; promoting shared facilities; and using
more economical techniques for collection from market and
slum areas. The public education campaigns are expected to
generate cost savings by reducing the need to clean clan-
destine dumps and streets. Alternative sources of financ-
ing investments and operations and maintenance will be
identified to reduce dependence on the Government budget.
The markets for compost and recycled materials will also be
investigated with a view to their more active development.
Benefits accruing from the tecbnical assistance and studies
will include:   on-the-job training and experience which
will develop SEDUE's ability to assist and advise munici-
palities as provided for in GOM's decentralization program,
as well as the municipalities' abilities to absorb and
implement that advice; dissemination of knowledge gained
througb the project to other municipalities; and definition
of options to permit increased private sector involvement
in waste management and a consequent reduction in Govern-
ment outlays. In addition, the expertise of local consult-
ants will be developed by the project's research and imple-
mentation activities.



Risks:          The main project risks are related to the need for close
cooperation among several entities and the possible
unwillingness    or    inability    of   the    Beneficiary
Municipalities to borrow from the project's line of
credit.  The first risqk will be minimized by the agreed
institutional arrangements for project implementation. In
addition, technical assistance and consulting services are
widely available.  Long-term consultants would help SEDUE
to closely supervise the project, supplemented by pr')ject
reporting and monitoring provisions whicb would allow the
Bank to detect problems early.   The second risk will be
minimized by requesting prior written commitments from the
Beneficiaries showing their willingness to accept the
subloan terms and conditions.   Second, similar projects
being prepared in a number of medium-sized cities could
replace the cities appraised.
Project Costs:
Local     Foreign     Total
US$ thousan
A. Pilot Component
TA/Studies                          3,841.2        805.9     4,647.1
Equipment and Spare Parts           4,201.5      3,788.1     7,989.6
Civil Works                        13,063.5      2,739.2    15,802.7
Operations. and Maintenance         2,697.8         -        2,697.8
Engineering/Administration            391.9         82.2       474.1
Subtotal                             24,195.9      7,415.4    31,611.3
B. National Component
Coordinating Unit
(T.A., etc.)                      1,766.3      1,305.6     3,071.9
Equipment                              24.1          9.8        33.9
Generic Studies/Training              710.0        128.1       838.1
Plan Preparation/Prefeasibility
Studies (26 cities)               1,967.5        668.0     2,635.5
Preparation of Future Follow-on
Project(s)                          826.0        159.0       985.0
Subtotal                            5,293.9      2,270.5     7,564.4



Local     Foreign     Total
USS tboussnd
Base Cost (12/85 prices):            29,489.8      9,685.9    39,175.7
Physical Contingencies                988.1        410.9     1,399.0
Price Contingencies
(1/86-12/93)                      7,069.0     2,356.3      9,425.3
Total Project Cost                 37,546.9    12,453.1    50,000.0
Local costs include about US$0.8 million equivalent of indirect taxes on
industrial products.
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
US$ thousand
Bank                               12,546.9    12,453.1    25,000.0
GlOM (SPP)                         12,000.0         -       12,000.0
SEDUE                               3,250.0         -        3,250.0
Beneficiary Municipalities          9,750.0         -        9,750.0
TOTAAL                             37,546.9    12,453.1    50,000.0
Estimated Disbursements: /
1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
Bank Fiscal Year              =                 $ million
Annual                 6.00  6.00  4.00  2.30  2.62  1.78  1.29  1.01
Cumulative            6.00 12.00 16.00 18.30 20.92 22.70 23.99 25.00
Rate of Return:     N.A.
1/ Includes retroactive financing valued at US$2.5 million equivalent.



PART I - THE SECTOR/SUBSECTOR
The Setting
1.01      Mexico's outstanding spatial problems are the beavy concentration
of economic activity, wealth and population in Mexico City, the lack of
integration between urban and rural areas, and unbalanced inter-regional
development. Population growth bas declined from 3.2% p.a. in the early
1970s to 2.6%  p.a. at present.   Approximately 68Z of the country's 75
million people live in urban centers of more than 2,500 inhabitants, wbile
about 262 of the population live in the tbree main metropolitan areas:
Mexico City, Guadalajara and Monterrey.
1.02         Between 1970 and 1983, Mexico made significant progress in
expanding and improving its water supply and wastes services. During this
period, the percentage of the population with access to piped water grew
from 49 to 66. The percentage which was connected to sewerage systems or
had adequate exereta disposal facilities grew from 29 to 43. Although con-
struction of new facilities increased, the capacity of many of the institu-
tions responsible for operating and maintaining them did not grow. It is
estimated that 50% of all systems need some degree of rehabilitation. The
Impressive improvements in water and sewerage coverage bave also been off-
set to a considerable degree by worsening, and unfortunately heretofore
neglected, water pollution and solid waste problems.
1.03      Collection, transfer and final disposal of solid waste are inade-
quate in virtually every city.   Collection service, often erratic and
inconsistent, is available only to 702 of the urban population, and is ge-
nerally provided with limited and/or aging facilities, deteriorating
equipment and untrained personnel.  Adequate final disposal te.hniques are
applled to only 5% of the total volume of -wastes collected, and open air
dumps are used for final disposal in 90X of all Mexican cities.  Solid
waste services in the municipalities that will benefit from the pilot
component of the proposed project are representative of the rest of the
country (Annexes 6 and 7).                                   l
1.04       Inadequate and erratic solid waste collection and disposal and
lack of public education programs on proper waste management are resulting
in the spread of debilitating diseases by insects and animals, and by di-
rect human contact. Typically, the downtown business districts and higher-
income neighborhoods benefit from solid waste collection services.  Some
middle- and lower-income neighborhoods receive occasional, sporadic serv-
ice; others do not.  The residents thus store refuse in their bomes for
days and then dump it in clandestine areas of their neighborhoods, or leave
it in the streets, illegally in nearby open dumps or in drainage canals.
1.05       C.wrowing quantities of industrial and toxic wastes present yet
another major problem. Large quantities of toxic substances sucb as PCBs
are generated by the electro-mecbanical industry in Mexico. Other indus-
trial and toxic wastes are produced in unknown, but presumably large, quan-
tities and are stored, dumped or discarded in unknown locations.



-2-
1.06       Most of the official refuse disposal sites are open dumps that
receive refuse from homes, commercial establishments, industries and
institutions. Scavengers sort through the refuse at most, if not all, of
the sites. As the dumps lack on-site washing facilities for scavengers,
the scavengers are exposed to intestinal parasites, skin infections and
respiratory diseases. The contamination may well spread as the scavengers
travel (often via public transport) from work to home. Very few disposal
sites are designed to receive industrial wastes.  Instead, there are many
clandestine industrial open dumps which are contaminating scarce groundwa-
ter and degrading the environment.   The proposed project would support
studies on the quantities and characteristics of industrial and toxic
wastes (para. 2.06).
Subsector Organization
1.07      The Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology (SEDUE) is res-
ponsible for establishing regulations and norms for the solid waste subsec-
tor, and for enforcing and promoting proper planning and operation of
services by providing technical and financial advice.   Because of the
increased awareness of the magnitude of the solid waste problem, SEDUE has
been given the mandate to organize and develop the solid waste subsector.
But it has yet to be provided the necessary resources.   SEDUE provides
funds from its regular hudget to municipalities as seed capital to design
and construct sanitary  landfills  (para.  1.13).    SEDUE undertakes  its
activities in solid waste management through the Directorate General for
the Prevention and Control of Environmental Pollution  (DGPCCA).   Until
eight months ago a department of solid waste management and soil control
(DRS) under DGPCCA was the unit directly responsible for subsector
activities. An informal unit reporting directly to DRS' director was set
up in August 1984, with staff from each of DRS' divisions, to prepare the
proposed project. DGPCCA has recently heen reorganized; its activities in
solid waste management are now shared by its three departments (standards
and vigilance, studies, and technical support-Annex 19).  The unit which
prepared the proposed project  (Project Coordinating Unit-UC) has been
formalized and will he responsible for overall project management and
execution  of some subcomponents  (paras.  2.11  and  2.14).   UC reports
directly to the Director General of DGPCCA.
1.08       BANOBRAS is a financial agent of the Government responsihle for
financing infrastructure investments (urban development, water supply,
highways, etc.). The federal government, through SHCP, controls BANOBRAS'
policies and directs its borrowings  and  lending activities.   BANOBRAS
onlends funds to states and municipalities through various windows" on
varying  terms  and  conditions.    However,  in  view  of  the  internal
organization requiring coordination among four divisions (External Credit,
Planning, Operations and Training), as well as complex bureaucratic
procedures for loan application and processing, and lack of promotion,
BANOBRAS has not been a major source of funding for solid waste services
(para 1.13).
1.09      The Covernment, as part of its decentralization efforts in Febru-
ary 1983, modified Article 115 of the Constitution which governs municipal
functions. This modification defined the legal responsibilities of munici-
palities to include the planning, financing, implementing, operating and
maintaining basic municipal services. Municipalities are, therefore, res-
ponsible for the collection and disposal of municipal solid wastes.



-3-
Responsibility for collectlon, transport, storage, treatment and final
disposal of toxic and industrial wastes rests with the generating
industries, SEDUE and, in some cases, with the municipalities.
1.10       Various arrangements are employed to bandle waste management at
the municipal level. In many municipalities, one department is responsible
for collection, transport, disposal and fleet maintenance and repair.
Others have a separate department of transport to handle management, main-
tenance and repair of all municipal vehicles. In others, a municipal 'em-
presa- handles all aspects of waste management, including fleet mainte-
nance. Contract and/or private collection is employed in a few municipali-
ties, usually to cover specific zones and institutions (botels, hospitals,
restaurants, etc.). Lack of information precludes a clear-cut assessment
of the potential efficiency and effectiveness of private and/or contract
service.   This would be studied and defined under the proposed project
(para. 2.04). Industrial and toxic waste management is unorganized, except
in the handful of areas where municipalities have assumed responsibility
for it.  There are virtually no lnter-municipal cooperative arrangements
or organizations to promote and manage shared facilities and equipment.
Subsector Operational Performance
1.11       Solid waste services thrcughout Mexico are characterized by poor
operational performance. Because of lack of planning and funds to regular-
ly restock spare parts, on average, about 25% of the most organized munici-
palities' operative fleets are out of service at any given moment. It is
estimated that more than half of the inoperative vehicles could be repaired
at a cost of 10% to 152 of their replacement cost.  The problem is worse if
parts need to be imported (Annexes 6 and 7). Although solid waste manage-
ment is estimated to consume up to one-third of municipal budgets, there
are no systems to record and compile the costs of solid waste operations.
There are no data on employees per ton of waste collectcd or disposed of.
When maintenance and repairs are performed by a general municipal workshop,
costs for labor, parts, supplies, and administration are not disaggregated
by service. Without proper cost data, cost-efficiency is not even an issue
of concern, much less a goal to he achieved.
1.12       Few, if any, cleaning agencies attempt to minimize exposed raw
refuse or provide separate areas for hazardous wastes. Route planning for
such activities as waste collection, disposal and proper vehicle operation,
are particularly weak. Public education campaigns focussing on the social
and health aspects of wastes have begun only recently. Disincentives for
littering, illegal dumping and hurning have yet to be developed in any
city.   Finally, operational performance has been adversely affected by
dearth of trained professional and supervisory staff at the municipal level
and by the resistance of strong labor and scavenger unions to change.
Subsector Investments and Financing
1.13        Municipal budgets have generally financed most investments in
waste management.  However, as in the past, most municipal revenues were
provided as Federal and State transfers, the majority of subsector invest-
ments as well as operation and maintenance costs were financed on a grant
basis.  BANOBRAS has lent some funds to the subsector, mainly for truck



-4-
purcbases, as part of larger urban development scbemes. Between 1983-85,
SEDUE provided about US$6 million (1985 prices) to support the design,
construction or operation of sanitary landfills in selected cities.  Be-
cause of the rudimentary nature of the municipalities' accounting systems
(para. 1.11), however, the level of subsector investments is unknown. Evi-
dence gathered from a representative sample of citles indicates that in-
vestments made and planned are far below the estimated minimum required to
upgrade services and provide facilities for a minium acceptable level cf
solid waste collection and disposal (para. 1.14). The modification to Ar-
ticle 115 of the Constitution (para. '.09) provides the legal instruments
for substantial Increases in municipal own-source revenues. Municipalities,
which previously received 152 of property taxes collected by states, are
now responsible for collecting property taxes and retaining 80% of
collections. Furthermore, municipalities now collect and retain all user
charges for water, sewerage and draining syqtems, solid waste services,
markets and slaughterhouses, among other basic services.  Municipalities
have adopted conservative fiscal policies and have, therefore, considerable
potential for borrowing.
Subsector Objectives and Constraints
1.14      At the end of 1983, the Government established hroad, medium-term
(1984-88) objectives for improvement of municipal and industrial solid
waste management. The objective in municipal solid ws"te is to increase
collection service coverage from 70% to 90% of the population in all cities
with more than 100,000 inhabitants, and to increase appropriate final dis-
posal from 5X to 90Z of collected wastes through a program of sanitary
landfill construction.   The initial objectives in industrial and toxic
wastes are to: (a) identify the characteristIcs of the wastes in 20 indus-
trial zones; (b) draw up regulationq for industrial waste management; (c)
promote financing for the waste-generating industries to develop adequate
collection systems and construct suitable dumps; and (d) construct indus-
trial waste disposal sites (cemeteries) in the municipalities that have
undertaken the management of industrial wastes.  Total financial require-
ments to meet the above objectives are estimated at a minimum of US$500
million (US$125 million per year) in 1985 prices.
1.15         Achievement of the above objectives is constrained by the
following: (a) the country's public investment programs are being sharply
curtailed, and financing from private sources is not available; (b) a
national solid waste plan, including site-specific programs, has not been
prepared; Cc) SEDUE's capacity to provide technical assistance to cities
and private companies on a wide scale is limited; (d) the municipalities'
capacity to effectively absorb the investments leaves mauch to he desired;
(e) options involving the private sector have not been explored; (f)
methods of promoting financing for waste generating industries have not
been defined; (g) measures to increase efficiency and reduce costs are not
being taken or planned; and (h) constraints on sanitary landfill operating
capacity bave not  been  considered,  despite  ongoing  construction.   In
addition, such key constraints as lack of technical and administrative
knowledge, weak planning, limited and/or aging equipment and facilities,
untrained personnel, poor operation and maintenance of equipment and
facilities, unclear and sometimes inadequate pricing policies and cost
recovery levels, and lack of experience in dealing with various types of
wastes are not being addressed. As discussed more fully in P-rt II, the
proposed project has been designed to assist the government in establishing
an appropriate framework and a basis to achieve subsector objectives by
addressing the above constraints.



-5-
Bank Sector/Subsector Strategy and Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.16       The Bank's strategy in the water supply and wastes sector com-
prises two elements: (a) to assist the water supply and sewerage subsector
with continued emphasis on medium-sized cities and increased attention to
the problems of small cities; and (b) to act as a catalyst in hringing
about a rational development of the solid waste management and pollution
control subsectors. In water supply and sewerage, in addition to stimulat-
ing improved management, developing appropriate financial policies and pro-
moting training, the Bank is paying particular attention to the development
of regional entities to manage the cost-effective provision of services.
1.17       The proposed project, the Bank's first direct Loan to the solid
waste subsector, will help the federal, state and municipal governments
initiate the process of rational development of the solid waste management
subsector through nationwide studies, technical assistance and pilot works.
These &.ctivities will provide a sound basis for establishing a cohesive
policy with an appropriate framework, and develop techniques with nation-
wide relevance. They will provide the grounding for future investments un-
der a larger scale  follow-up  operation.    Complementing  the Municipal
Strengthening Project (MSP) for which a parallel Bank loan is being pro-
cessed, the project would: (i) help improve overall public sector mana-
gement at the federal, state and municipal levels, and consolidate the
Government's decentalization program; (ii) through actions at the subsec-
toral and technical level, improve the institutional and financial manage-
ment of municipalities by gradually rationalizing the system of grant
transfers, and strengthening municipal finances through application of a
systematic methodology which would lead to appropriate pricing and cost re-
covery policies; and (iii) reduce federal subsidies to states and munici-
palities by improving access to credit for a key municipal service and im-
proving local finance mobilization. The proposed project would help meet
the basic needs of the population and establish a sound basis for develop-
ing a critical subsector.
1.18        Coordination with the Municipal Strengthening Project.  Future
Bank lending in both the urban and water supply sectors will necessarily
incorporate the revised institutional framework required as a result of the
Government's decentralization policy. The MSP would support the Covern-
ment's objectives of improving the utilization of human and financial re-
sources and strengthening institutions, particularly at the municipal
level, to increase the delivery of affordable and efficient urban servi-
ces. The proposed project would, to the extent feasible, operate within
the framework being established under the MSP.  At the same time, the pro-
ject would develop at the federal level the expertise and relevant institu-
tional coordination required to provide municipalities with financial and
technical assistance and training to adequately discharge their responsi-
bilities in the solid waste subsector. Because of the pressing need to ex-
pand knowledge of the subsector and develop expertise at the federal level,
SEDUE would assume a major role in implementation of the proposed project,
in order to be able to adequately discharge its assigned functions (para.
1.07).



-6-
1.19      Both the proposed project and the MSP would he within the Govern-
ment's  Program  for  the  Strengthening  of  Municipalities  (FORTAMUN).
FORTAMUN would he formally estahleshed under a mandate from SHCP to
BANOBRAS as a condition of effectiveness of the loans for the MSP and the
proposed project. The mandate authorizes BANOBRAS to control funding and
establishes the basic structure of the program, including: (a) a high-level
interministerial Steering Committee (Comite Directivo); (h) a Technical
Secretariat to coordinate various agencies involved in municipal strength-
ening and the program as a whole; Cc) a Training Support Ulnit; and (d) the
formalization of Operating Guidelines which detail the rules and procedures
of FORTAMUN.  All Beneficiaries under the project would be suhject to the
financial appraisal criteria established under FORTAMUN and adjusted to
accommodate the particular requirements of the solid waste subsector (Annex
21); each subloan would he reviewed and approved by the Comite Directivo.
BANOBRAS would follow the policies and procedures outlined in the Operating
Guidelines which were reviewed during negotiations and would he formally
approved by the Government and BANOBRAS as a conditiorn of effectiveness.
The Guidelines would he amended from time to time, as necessary, by agree-
ment between the Government, BANUBRAS and the Bank.
PART II - THE PROJECT
Project Origin, Background and Concept
2.01       A joint Bank-Mexican sector study, undertaken in late 1983, con-
cluded that the solid waste subsector posed serious problems and recommen-
ded assistance for its development.   In February 1984, the Government re-
quested Bank assistance to develop the subsector and to help prepare a
first project.   An April 1984 mission concluded that a modest operation
which would provide substantial technical assistance and a pilot program to
test applications would he advisable. Such a project would review options
and define policies, strengthen institutions, demonstrate the efficient de-
livery of subsector services and gain experience before undertaking a larg-
er lending operation. The resulting project was appraised in July-August,
1985. Negotiations were held in Washington in February 1986. The Mexican
delegation was led by Lic. German Sandoval Faz of BANOBRAS.
Project Objectives
2.02        The objectives of the project are to:  (a) assist G1OM to more
clearly define subsector objectives and policies and to develop national
and local institutional capability to improve subsector management; (b) im-
prove subsector services through pilot/demonstration subprojects, reduce
public healtb risks and improve environmental conditions in selected cit-
ies; (c) test and evaluate alternatives for promoting cost savings, provid-
ing training and channeling funds in the subsector; (d) help national and
local governments to fully understand solid management costs and to develop
a basis for cost recovery of solid waste services; and (e) provide an ade-
quate hasis for preparing full-scale solid waste management improvement
projects.



-7-
Project Description
2.03       The project is described in detail in Annexes 2-4 and is summar-
ized in the following paragraphs.  Selection and design criteria are des-
cribed in Annex 16. A pilot component (US$40.09 million, or about 80% of
the total project cost) will consist of nine types of subprojects, each
designed to improve operations and environmental protection, reduce costs,
and increase efficiency.   Each  subproject will he documented by audio-
vlual and written materials to he used for sector-wide training and to fa-
cilitaLe replication. Various combinations of subproject types will be un-
dertaken in following 8 urban areas tentatively included in the project:
the Monterrey Metropolitan Area, Puebla, Merida, Tlalnepantla, Acapulco,
Ecatepec, Cuernavaca, and the Orizaha/Cordoha twin cities. The component
will include financing for civil works, equipment and materials, training
and technical assistance for: (a) improved repair and maintenance facili-
ties and systems (Puebla, Orizaha); (b) low-cost collection systems for
markets (Puehla, Orizaba); (c) low-cost collection syStems for marginal
zones (Tlanepantla, Acapulco, Monterrey); (d) materials recovery and com-
posting facilities designed to operate in direct response to market demand
for their products (Merida); (e) a regional sanitary landfill (Orizaba/
Cordoba);   (f)   industrial   waste   disposal  sites/cemeteries   (Puebla,
Cuernavaca, Ecatepec); (g) improvement of institutional, financial and
organizational arrangements, including office improvements and provision of
office and transport equipment (Puebla, Merida, Orizaba); (h) development
of public education programs and related materials (Puebla, Orizaba); and
(i) three regional transfer stations (including materials recovery) and a
sanitary landfill; establishment of a metropolitan waste management enter-
prise and studies on the economic and technical viability of employing com-
posting, mass burning and/or refuse-derived fuel systems of resource recov-
ery (Monterrey Metropolitan Area).
2.04        The national component (US$9.91 million, or about 20Z of the
total project cost) will finance:  (a) technical assistance and equipment
to strengthen SEDUE; (b) generic studies to define solutions/options to
solve the fundamental problems, issues and needs of the solid waste
management subsector; (c) development of plans and preparation of
prefeasibility studies in 26 cities; and (d) project preparation of future
follow-on projects. Terms of reference for technical assistance, studies
and preparation of the follow-on projects are presented in Annexes 3 and
4 and were agreed with the Government during negotiations. In addition to
the technical assistance (26% of national component cost, or 5X of total
project cost), the tasks to he carried out under the national component
will include the following areas:
A. Generic Studies (11% of national component cost, or 2X of total pro-
ject cost):   (a) an examination of institutional aspects of solid
waste management including legal, regulatory, enforcement, and defi-
nition of institutional/organizatif nal options for effective deliv-
ery of services (e.g. contract, concession, lease options, etc.) and
assistance, where necessary, to the Beneficiaries to implement
applicable recommendations; (b) an examination of financial and
accounting aspects of solid waste management comprising options for
financing municipal solid waste service from municipal and other
resources, financing industrial waste management, and accounting,



-8-
including cost control; (c) development and implementation of an
industrial waste data base management system and provision of
training on its use; Cd) design of a sampling and analysis program
to fill gaps in the data base on municipal solid waste cha-
racteristics; (e) development of a data base and a technical
framework for the evaluation of the environmental impact of open
dumping of non-industrial and industrial solid wastes in order to
provide a basis for assessing the costs and benefits of other
disposal options; (f) development of a data base of costing factors
and a simplified computer system to enable ready comparison and
analysis  of  collection,  transport  and  transfer  options;  (g)
assessment of the existing and potential markets for recycled
materials and recovered resources; (h) assessment of constraints and
incentives to recycling and resource recovery and definition of
policy options and plans of action which could enhance recycling and
resource recovery.
B. Plan Preparation and Prefeasibility Studies (315 of national compo-
nent cost, or 7% of total project cost) will include the development
of comprehensive plans of action for improving solid waste manage-
ment in 26 citiesl/ including, in each case, recommended options
for improvements.
C. Development and Preparation of Future Follow-On Projects (13S of
national component cost, or 3% of total project cost) will comprise:
(a) comparison of issues and proposed approaches among cities; (b)
selection of cities based on sound selection criteria; (c) prepara-
tion of full feasibility studies, taking into consideration informa-
tion contained in the generic studies and experience with implemen-
tation of pilot subprojects.
2.05        An important feature of the project is the special technical
assistance to he provided to a number of the Beneficiaries to implement
recommendations  developed  above.    This  effort  will  concentrate  on
Institutional and organizational options for effective and efficient
service provision, accounting and cost control, administrative procedures
and systems for analyzing collection, transport and transfer options. As
specified in the Operating Guidelines (para 1.19), the Beneficiaries
would be required, under subloan agreements (para. 2.08), to undertake to
implement recomendations relating to cost recovery.
Project Cost
2.06       The total cost of the project, excluding interest during cons-
truction, is estimated at US$50.0 million equivalent with US$40.09 million
allocated to the pilot component and US$9.91 million, to the national com-
ponent with an estimated foreign exchange cost of US$12.45 mdllion or 25%
of the project costs. Costs are based on December 1985 prices and include
physical contingencies of 42.  Price contingencies of US$9.43 million or
1/ Puebla, Isla Mujeres, Cozumel, Mazatlan, Saltillo, Oaxaca, Salina Cruz,
Guaymas, Tlanepantla, Ecatepec, Tlaxcala, Ciudad Carmen, Cancun,
Veracruz, Toluca, Queretaro, San Luis Potosi, Ciudad Valles, Ciudad
Juarez, Durango, Tepic, Ciudad Victoria, Hermosillo, Poza Rica, Jalapa,
and Monterrey.



-9-
23Z of 1985 project costs are based on estimated international inflation of
7.5Z in 1986 and 8% thereafter.  The local component includes ahout USS0.8
million equivalent of indirect taxes on industrial products.   Technical
assistance and consultant costs, ranging from US$2,500-US$8,500 per month,
are based on those of similar internationally and locally recruited experts
in Mexico and other countries in the Region. The costs include about 321
man-months of foreign consultants, 1,292 man-months of local consultants,
and 598 man-months of counterpart staff at the national level (Annex 5).
Construction costs are based on hills of quantities from those subprojects
with advanced engineering designs, and(on unit prices developed by SEDUE or
found in recent bids for similar civil works, materials and equipment.
Detailed project costs are in Annex 8, and projected annual investments are
in Annex 10.
Project Financing Plan
2.07      The Bank Loan of US$25.0 million (50% of total project cost) will
finance total foreign costs and US$12.55 million equivalent of local
costs.   This is in line with recent Bank participation in social sector
projects in Mexico, and is justified by the extensive expenditure in local
currency (mainly for consulting services), the technical assistance and the
pilot nature of the project. The financing plan is summarized below and
discussed in detail in Annex 12.
Table 2.1: Project Financing Plan (US$ Million)
Counterpart
Component         Bank           MOM       SEDUE      Beneficiaries    Total
Pilot             16.94         11.55       1.85            9.75        40.09
National           P.06          0.45       1.40              0          9.91
25.00        12.00       3.25            9.75        50.00
=  _    =   ==  _   ==  _= ______===      _   _ _ _
Z of Total        50            24          6.5            19.5        100
BANOBRAS would, as a condition of effectiveness, enter into contractual
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Government providing for
the transfer of funds to the project's line of credit (project account)
under FORTAMUN and repayment of the loan by the Government. In addition,
BANOBRAS would open and maintain a Mandate Account (Municipal Development
Fund--iDF) for the purposes of carrying out FORTAMUN. The amount allocated
to the pilot component would, as in the case of the MSP, provide initial
capital to the MDF to provide subloans and grants for the implementation of
the pilot subprojects (para. 2.08). Principal and interest payments on the
subloans would be deposited in the MDF and onlent to municipalities to
expand FORTAMUN.   Funds for technical assistance, studies and training
under the pilot subprojects would be provided as grants (para. 2.09 and
Annex 13).  Funds for the national component would also be provided on a
grant basis. Assurances were obtained during Loan negotiations that coun-
terpart funds would be made available in a timely manner and that the rOM
counterpart funds would be channeled through the Project's account under
FORTAMUN. The Beneficiaries' contributions would be in the form of pro-
ject-related services, assets and land.  SEDUE would allocate its share
from future budgets.



-10-
2.08       The project account to be established under FORTAMUN will be re-
served for the exclusive use of the project. FORTAMUN's Steering Committee
would be responsible for approving the account's operations. The line of
credit's operating principles and governing conditions have been defined
and include the provisions set forth in Annex 14. These will he incorpora-
ted in the Operating Guidelines of FORTAMUN. A subsidiary onlending agree-
ment (Contrato de Apertura de Credito) will be executed for eacb subproject
between BANOBRAS, the State Government and the Beneficiary. Bank approval
of each subloan agreement will he a condition of disbursement for eacb Ben-
eficiary's subproject(s). The agreements will include tle provisions list-
ed in Annex 15. In addition, eacb subloan would carry a starting interest
rate in 1986 of 68% of the Average Cost of Funds (CPP; para. 2.10) and in
1987, of 80x.  The repayment period would he 15 years including a grace
period equal to the shorter of the construction period or four years. Dur-
ing negotiations a draft model onlending agreement and a draft Mandate from
SHCP to BANOBRAS setting up FORTAMUN were reviewed and found satisfactory.
The Mandate would he formalized by the effective date of the proposed loan
and that of the MSP (para. 1.19).   The draft model onlending agreement
would also be incorporated in the Operating CGuidelines (para. 1.19).
2.09         The project will be included under the General Interest Rate
Agreement (GIRA) between the Bank and Mexico. A category for municipal in-
frastructure lending (including solid waste) will he opened in GIRA to ac-
commodate the proposed project and the MSP. The interest rate (para. 2.08)
would be applied to equipment acquisitions, materials and civil works for
the pilot component. Technical assistance and studies would be provided on
a grant hasis because of the pilot nature of the project and the nationwide
relevance and demonstrative nature of the activities under project. This
would be spelled out in an annex to the subloan agreements.
2 .10      At present, most funds for solid waste investments are passed to
the municipalities entirely as grants (para.  1.13).   In some instances
grants may be justified for reasons of affordability, but there are no es-
tablished criteria for sucb funding. The small amount that BANOBRAS lends
to the subsector under its FM window is provided at 9-23% of the CPP with
no apparent requirements other than that the funds be used to purchase
equipment or construct landfilj.s, and that the municipality have a popula-
tion of less tban 100,000 inhabitants. The above issues are in part the
result of the absence of a cohesive policy and mechanism for financing so-
lid waste investments.   The establishment of FORTAMUN and the project's
line of credit would begin to establish a policy framework. The relatively
high interest rate (68% of CPP) to be applied to the project would mark a
sharp departure from present policy.  CGOM counterpart funds to he onlent
through the project would otherwise have been transferred to municipalities
entirely as grants.



Project Implementation
2.11         Project implementation procedures are discussed in detail in
Annex 12. The Borrower would he BANOBRAS; SEDUE's UC, assisted by long-
term consultants, will act as technical agent for the project. UC will be
responsible for overall project monitoring and coordination. UC will also
carry out the national component, with the exception of the financial and
accounting studies which will be carried out by BANOBRAS, unless BANOBRAS
agrees otherwise.   The Be ieficiaries will execute the pilot subprojects
with support from consultants and UC, as necessary.  UC will assist in the
supervision of the pilot subprojects, in collaboration with the Beneficiar-
ies and BANOBRAS, thus providing BANOBRAS and the Beneficiaries additional
training. In consultation and mutual agreement with the Beneficiaries, UC
will prepare an institutional development program for each Beneficiary not
included in the pilot subproject dealing with institutional and financial
arrangements, using the findings and recommendations of the national com-
ponent's institutional issues study.   UC will provide the Beneficiaries
witb special technical assistance to implement the recommendations of the
national component  studies, if such  assistance is not already included
within the scope of a study. Each Beneficiary of the pilot component has
appointed two coordinators for its subproject(s). The project would he im-
plemented in 1986-93 (para. 2.13), in accordance with the schedules pre-
sented in Annex 11.   Terms of reference for the long-term consultants to
assist and strengthen UC and the Beneficiaries are in Annex 4. Agreement
was reached during negotiations on the terms of reference.
2.12       The contractual documents under the project would he: (a) a Loan
Agreement between the Bank and BANOBRAS; (h) a Loan Guarantee Agreement be-
tween the Bank and the Government; (c) a subsidiary onlending agreement
(Contrato de Apertura de Credito), satisfactory to the Bank, for each sub-
project between BANOBRAS and the Beneficiary, guaranteed by the state gov-
ernment or, in the case of the Monterrey Metropolitan area, between
BANOBRAS and the State Government.   An annex to the subloan agreements
would detail the scope of SED-JE's assistance to each Beneficiary in the ex-
ecution of each subproject.
2.13         The project was initially designed to be implemented in four
years. The implementation period has been increased to eigbt years based
on experience with water supply projects in the region as reflected in the
standard disbursement profiles, given thar the Bank has no experience with
freestanding solid waste management projects. It is possible that if the
project is implemented efficiently and with few delays, the implementation
period could be reduced to four years. This would result in a reduction of
project costs from US$50.0 million to US$48.4 million' The annual share of
funds provided by the Government and the Beneficiaries, bowever, would be
higher under the four-year plan-US$0.42 million equivalent in 1986,
US$0.20 million in 1987, US$0.06 million in 1988 and US$0.15 million in
1989. The alternative cost and investment estimates of the eight and four-
year schedules are shown in Annexes 8 and 10.



-12-
Key Executing Agencies
2.14      SEDUE's General Directorate for the Prevention and Control of En-
vironmental Pollution (DGPCCA) (para. 1.07) has 71 employees involved in
solid waste management and soil pollution control, lncludiug 28 profession-
als and 14 technicians. The UC will undertake the responsibilities des-
cribed iu para. 2.11. The unit will initially have a staff of 13. If nec-
essary, DGPCCA would make other staff available to the unit.  During nego-
tiations agreement was reacbed that until the project is completed, the
unit will be maintained and fully staffed with qualified and experienced
personnel. The unit will be supported by the five long-term consultants to
be engaged under the technical assistance provided in the national compon-
ent.  UC will also be supported at the municipal level by SEDUE's resident
state delegations which will provide a day-to-day liuk with the Beneficiar-
ies. By mutual agreement among the eight municipalities of the Monterrey
Metropolitan area, Monterrey's pilot subcomponent (about 722 of the total
cost of the pilot component) would he executed by a unit that has been set
up under the State of Nuevo Leon's Secretary of Urban Development. Organi-
zation Charts are in Annex 19. Terms of Reference and staff composition
for SEDUE's Coordinatiug Unit are iu Anuex 20.
2.15       BANOBRAS' finances, activities and future orientation are dis-
cussed iu Annex 22.  Established in 1933 as an urban mortgage and public
works bauk, its constitution and activities have been modified from time to
time in the intervening yea.rs. It obtains funds from the Mexican Govern-
ment and the international market. Under its 1980 Organic Law, BANOBRAS is
also empowered to act as technical adviser to the Federal Government, the
Federal District and local governments in planniug, financing and executing
works and services of a public or social nature. BANOBRAS is legally em-
powered to act as a Bank Borrower and has acted as financial intermediary
for ten Bank loans, amounting to US$1,225 ndlliou.
Project Mouitoriug and Progress Reporting
2.16       Monitoring indicators are shown in Annex 23 and are hased on a
critical path study completed prior to appraisal. Each onlending agreement
will be subject to approval by the Bank. The long-term consultants will
assist SEDUE with the preparation of semi-annual reports focussing on tech-
nical and managerial aspects and project executiou progress (including ex-
penditures on all subprojects), to which BANOBRAS will add reports on fi-
nancial aspects. The combined document will be forwarded to the Covernment
and the Bank. Reports by the short-term consultants undertaking the stud-
ies and preparation of follow-on projects will be available to the Bank.
Agreement was reacbed and assurances obtained during negotiations on the
monitoriug indicators as well as the plan for progress reportiug. Agree-
ment was also reacbed and assurances obtained during negotiations that per-
iodic project implementation reviews, whicb sbould include discussions with
the Bank of the findings and recowmeadations of the studies and technical
assistance, will provide anotber basis for determining any corrective ac-
tions which might need to be taken.



-13-
Procurement, Disbursement and Special Account
2.17      Procurement (Annex 18) would be carried out following Bank guide-
lines. All contracts for equipment, spare parts and materials exceeding a
total of US$300,000 and for civil works in excess of US$3 million would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB). Equip-
ment, spare parts and materials for eacb subproject will, to the extent
practicable, be grouped into packages in excess of US$300,000. Subject to
an aggregate limit of US$12 million, contracts for civil works of less than
US$3 million but over US$300,000, or less than US$300,000 but over
US$100,000 for equipment, spare parts and materials could be procured on
the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.   Contracts of less than US$300,000 for civil works and less than
US$100,000 for equipment, subject to a maximum aggregate of US$6 million,
could be procured directly on the basis of a minimum of three quotations
or executed by force account (Beneficiaries). Coods manufactured locally
and procured under ICB would be allowed a preference over foreign goods of
152 of the CIF price or the level of import duty, whichever is lower.
2.18      Technical assistance end consultants' services will be procured
In accordance with Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants.   Prior Bank
review of feasibility studies, final designs, specifications and prequali-
fications, bidding documents, awards, and contracts procured under ICB
would be required. BANOBRAS/SEDUE will retain all relevant documentation
for local procurement of goods and services. Bank missions will carry out
an ex-post review by sampling.   The Beneficiaries would undertake to
maintain adequate documentation to support expenditures made for force
account works.   SEDUE will, if necessary, prepare master contracts for
consulting services for the national component, and help the Beneficiaries
to prepare those that may be deemed necessary for the pilot component; all
contracts and consultants' qualifications will he satisfactory to the Bank.
2.19      The Bank would disburse as follows:  (a) for the pilot component:
(i) 67% for consulting services and training; (ii) 1002 of foreign expendi-
tures for direct imports of equipment and materials and 372 of the costs of
locally procured goods; and (iii) 372 of total expenditures for civil
works; and (b) for the national component, 372 for equipment and materials
and 902 for consulting services and training. The allocation of loan pro-
ceeds by component is shown in Annex 9. Disbursements for eligible expen-
ditures and contracts valued at under US$250,000 equivalent would be made
against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documentation would
he retained by BANOBRAS and made available for review during project super-
vision missions. Retroactive financing in an amount equivalent to US$2.5
million would be provided for expenditures on project preparation and rela-
ted project activities undertaken after August 3, 1985.   Disbursements
would he completed by June 30, 1994 (Annex 17). A Special Account for the
project in the amount of US$2.0 million (estimated four months' peak dis-
bursements) will be established in the Central Bank. The Borrower would
submit to the Bank a monthly statement of the activities of the Special
Account.



-14-
Audit
2.20         BANOBRAS and Solid Waste Line of Credit (Project Account).
BANOBRAS' accounts are audited annually by an independent audit firm, whose
reports are made available to the Bank. Agreement was reacbed during Loan
negotiations that the project's account under FORTAMUN will be speclfically
audited annually hy independent and qualified auditors and that the
auditors' report will he submitted to the Bank not later than six months
after the end of the accounting year.   BANOBRAS also agreed that the
project's Special Account will he audited hy independent and qualified
auditors. The audit report would be submitted to the Bank not later than
six months after tne end of the fiscal year.
2.21       Beneficiaries.  Audit of the accounts of Mexican municipalities
is not mandatory and depends on the volition of each individual municipal-
ity. Each subloan agreement entered into under the project will therefore
rpquire each Beneficiary and state government to have project expenditures
verified annually by an independent auditor acceptable to BANOBRAS.
Assurances were obtained to this end.   The audit reports would he made
available to the Bank for review.
Status of Project Preparation
2.22         Project preparation conforms to the proposed implementation
schedule.   Under the pilot component, all subprojects have been fully
costed and preliminary designs for all landfills bave been prepared. SEDUE
staff and consultants have developed preliminary specifications for major
equipment items.  The lands needed for the workshops, landfills and trans-
fer facilities have been identified and are being acquired. There are no
legal issues impeding acquisition of the land and, wbere applicable, a con-
dition for approving each subloan would be that clear evidence of title is
furnished. Preliminary designs and specifications for the largest items
(Monterrey regional transfer stations and Merida materials recovery and
compositing facility) have been prepared.   Preparation of final designs
(covering about 302 of the total) has already begun. Terms of reference
for the tecbuical assistance to UC, all studies, preparation of follow-on
projects as well as for the pilot subprojects have been prepared.
Benefits and Risks
2.23       The principal benefits are expected to be the positive health,
institutional and social impact and an improved policy and financial envi-
ronment for solid waste management. In the field of environmental improve-
ment, the project aims at reducing bealth bazards to the public by creating
well designed and appropriately located landfills and industrial cemeteries
to eliminate or reduce unauthorized dumps and unsanitary open landfills and
by introducing more sanitary disposal of market wastes.  Improved indus-
trial waste management and disposal should diminish liability risks for in-
dustry and help encourage industrial expansion in project areas. As a se-
condary benefit, the combination of reduced health risks and more aestheti-
cally  pleasing  environments  may  enhance Beneficiaries' tourist image.
Substantial technical assistance, on-the-job training and experience will



-15-
develop the ability both of SEDUE to assist and advise municipalities, and
of the municipalities to absorb and implement that advice.   The audio-
visual documentation produced will enable the lessons of the project to be
disseminated among other municipalities.   In addition, the expertise of
local consultants in this heretofore neglected subsector will be developed
by the research and implementation activities under the project. The pro-
ject should help reduce dependence on the federal budget by improving
access to credit, and by stimulating local resource generation through de-
velopment of appropriate cost recovery measures while introducing cost sa-
vings through more efficient operations of solid waste management systems.
None of the above benefits is readily quantifiable. Therefore a rate of
return has not been estimated. Nevertheless, some idea of the scope for
generating benefits by more efficient operations can be gauged by observing
the number of solid waste vehicles and equipment out of service or ineffec-
tively used, in project areas.
2.24        Four of the eight medium-sized municipalities included in the
project are among the economically weaker ones in Mexico.   Five of the
eight municipalities comprizsng the Monterrey Metropolitan area are among
the poorest in the country as measured by deficiencies in basic services
and by income levels. The project will substantially benefit the poor hut
its direct ,mpact on that group can be measured with any reasonable degree
of accuracy only in the Beneficiary cities in which marginal zone waste
collections will be improved under the project. These cities (Tlalnepan-
tla, Acapulco and Monterrey) have a combined total population of over 3.5
million of which marginal zone population is estimated at about 1.4 million
inhabitants of which about 0'.9 million would be covered by the project.
2.25       The main project risks are: (a) possible implementation delays
due to the need for close cooperation among several entities, the difficul-
ty of coordinating the many project activities combined with UC's and the
Beneficiaries' lack of familiarity witb Bank procedures; and (b)  the po-
ssible unwillingness or inability of the Beneficiaries to borrow on the
proposed terms and conditions.  The first risk will he minimized by the
arrangements  for project  implementation.   The responsibilities  of all
participants have been clearly defined and continuous technical assistance
will be widely available.   These measures will be complemented by the
reporting and monitoring provisions, designed to detect problems at an
early  stage.   The second risk will be reduced by requesting written
commitments from Beneficiaries showing their willingness to accept the
terms of the subloans. If, however, a Beneficiary should drop out of the
project, similar projects being prepared in other municipalities could
replace  them.   In addition,  the project's  technical assistance grant
provisions will ease some of the burden.
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) that USS12.0 million in GOM counterpart funds would be
channeled through the project's line of credit under the
FORTAMUN Mandate Account at BANOBRAS (para. 2.07);



-16-
(b)  that SEDUE's counterpart funds from Its budget would be made
iu a timely manner (para. 2.07);
(c) that the Beneficiaries' contributions would be provided on
time (para. 2.07);
(d) that repayments by the Beneficiaries of CGOM counterpart
funds aud the Bank Loan would be deposited in the MDF and
further onlent to municipalities for the purposes of expand-
ing FORTAMUV (para. 2.07);
(e)  that the proposed project monitoring indicators and the plan
for progress reporting would be used to monitor project pro-
gress (para. 2.16);
(f)  that periodic project implemeutation reviews would be held
to provide another basis for determintug any corrective ac-
tions which may ueed to be taken (para. 2.16);
(g) that BANOBRAS would have the project's line of credit (pro-
ject account) audited annually by independent auditors and
that the audit report would be submitted to the Bank not
later than six months after the end of the accounting year
(para. 2.20);
(b) that BANOBRAS would have the Special Account audited by in-
dependent auditors and that the audit report would be sub-
mitted to the Bank not later than six months after the end
of the fiscal year (para. 2.20);
(I)  that each subloan agreement would require each Beneficiary
and state government to have project expenditures verified
annually by an independent auditor acceptable to BANOBRAS
and that the audit reports would be made available to the
Bank for review if and wheu requested (para. 2.21); and
(j) that one conditiou for approving each subloan would he that,
where applicable, clear evidence of land title would be fur-
nished by the Beneficiary (para. 2.22).
3.02      As a condition of Loau effectiveness:
(a) rhe C.overament Program for the Strengthening of )Fmici-
palities (FORTAMUN) would be formally establiLshed under a
mandate from SHCP to BANOBRAS (paras. 1.19 and 2.08);
(b) The C(overnment and BANOBRAS shall have approved the Operat-
ing (-uidelines on terms acceptable to the Bank (para. 1.19);



-17-
(c) BANOBRAS would enter into contractual arrangements, sat's-
factory to the Bank, with the Government providing for the
transfer of funds to the project account under PORTAMUN's
Mandate Account (para. 3.01(a) and repayment of the loan by
the CGovernment (para. 2.07); and
(d) The GCovernment would agree to an amendment to the General
Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA) providing for the inclusion
of a category for municipal infrastructure lending (includ-
ing solid waste) with the following target rates:  68X of
the ACF as of January 1, 1986, and 80Z as of January 1, 1987
(paras. 2.08 and 2.09).
3.03        As a condition of disbursement on eacb Beneficiary's subproj-
ect(s), the Bank shall have approved the corresponding subloan agreement
between BANOBRAS and the Beneficiary (para. 2.08).
3.04      With the above assurances, agreements and conditions, the propo-
sed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$25.0 million to be re-
paid over 15 years, including three years of grace.



-18--.
ANEN I
XI3D
SOLID IASTM MANAr:I    PIL0' PROJECT
Sak Loans to Mexico for Water Supply and Sewerage
9140/85
Loan       Anunt                                                        Percentage
year    No.   lUSS million)       Borrower              Purpo              Cemitttentn  Disb.           Coments
1974   909-NE       78.2       Y_clonal          First stage water source      100        100   Project Performance Audit
(net of Cence- Pnanciera S .A.  development progrm to                            iesued July 1981 (Report
Ilation of     (IAFINSA)         meet the needs of the                           No. Sec MR3-765). Project
11.8)                            Mexico City metropolitan                        Completion Report dated
area through 1977                              July 29. 1982.
(C-&VWCLT)
1976   1186-PU      410.0      Banco Naciotal   Firit water and sewerage       100        100   Project successfully co_r-
de Obras y Ser-  project through the                             oleted with three-year delay.
vicios Publicoi  FIFAPA Fund to expand                           PCR ns yet unscheduled.
S.A. (AJIORAS)  servtces tn selected
mediumsized ctties.
1981   1911-E       125.0      BAUOBRAS          FIFAPA II to expand           100         55   rovernment request of _nother
smervices In selected                          one-year extension of cloning
eediu cities Including                         date under consideration.
T.A. program for Snest-
tutional dew, of hene-
f icing companies.
1983  2281-E         100.1     UOBRAS            FIFAPA III uith same           50         18   Full comittuent expected by
objectives a  1911-ME.                         mid-1986. Delays due to
Project also includes                          untleltness and Inadequate
a large T.A. program to                        quality of feasibility
Improve the organization                       studies.
and manaeeent of a pilot
Iaterounicipal Water Roard
In the State of Sinaloa.



-19--
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANANGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
Prolect Description
I. Pilot Component 1/
A. Improvement of Workshop Facilities and SysteMs (Puebla, Orizaha)
(a)  provision of  services  and  technical  assistance  for  surveying
existing facilities, resources and procedures, preparation of
plans, designs/specifications and bidding documents, reorganizing
work and control procedures, monitoring, evaluation, preparation
of guidelines for replication, audio-visual documentation and to
provide on-the-job and overseas training;
(b)  improvement of workshop structures and paving; and
(c)  purchase  and  installation  of  equipment,  including  gas  pumps,
hydraulic jacks, battery chargers, washing and greasing equipment,
engine cranes, tools and tool boxes, office equipment and spare
parts.
B. Market Collection (Puebla-, Orizaba)
(a)  provision  of  services  and  technical  assistance  for  surveying
existing situation and systems, preparation of plans, specifica-
tions and bidding documents, monitoring, evaluation, guidelines
and audio-visual documentation and provision of training to mz.rket
vendors, the public and cleaning department personnel;
(b)  (i) paving for about 16 container depots; and (ii) installation
for one hopper; and
(c)  purchase of collection equipment, including  truck chasses (about
three) with demountable 6 ml containers (about 16), one 7m lifting
vehicle, spare yarts and one 12 ml hopper.
C. Marginal Zone Collection (Tlanepantla, Acapulco, Monterrey)
(a)  studies and tecbnical assistance for preparation works, evalua-
tion, documentation, training and follow-up including: survey of
physical characteristics of zones to be covered, socio-economic
surveys, community promotion, preparation of operational, organi-
zation and financial plans, specifications, bidding documents,
guidelines and audio-visual documentation and provision of
on-the-job training for cleaning department workers and training
to the community;
1/   A more detailed breakdown and listing, particularly for Parts D-I
below is in the project files and could he provided on request.



-20-
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
(b)  (i) improvement of 6 km of access roads; (ii) paving for about 22
container depots; and (iii) construction of about tbree 70 m2
field office sbeds; and
(c) purchase of about six tractors with 4-5 .3 trailers; twenty 7 =3
demountable containers; five 9-ton trucks with demountable con-
tainers, spare parts and four hundred and fifty 200 1 containers.
D. Landfill, Materials Recovery and Composting Facility (Merida)
(a) studies and technlcal assistance for preparation works, monitor-
ing, operation, evaluation, documentation, training and follow-up
including: waste characteristic studies, market studies, opera-
tional, organizational and financial plans, designs, bidding docu-
ments and guidelines;
(b) site clearing/preparation, fencing, paving, drainage, construction
of worker facilities and improvement of access roads, construction
of weighbridges; and
(c) procurement of a tractor with push blade, two payloaders, weighing
scales, dump trucks, conveyor belts, hoppers, trommel screens, a
utility vehicle and spare parts.
E. Regional Landfill (Cordoba/Orizaba)
(a)  studies and technical assistance for preparation works, operation,
evaluation, documentation and on-the-job and overseas training in-
cluding: waste generation and topographic surveys, geomorpbologic
and bydrologic assessments, preparation of operational manuals,
development of organizational and financial plans., -nr-aration of
specifications and bidding documents, monitoring mad evaluation,
development of replication guidelines and preparation of audio-
visual documentation;
(b) site clearing, fencing, paving, superficial drainage, construction
of worker facilities, Improvement of access road and construction
of weighbridge; and
(c) procurement of a bulldozer, payloader, two dump trucks, one 15,000
liter fuel tank, one 60-ton weigbing scale, workshop equipment,
office equipment, bopper, conveyor belts, utility vehicle, con-
tainers and spare parts.
F. Industrial Waste Cemeteries (Puebla, Cuernavaca, Ecatepec)
(a)  studies and technical assistance for prepa,ation works, monitor-
ing, operation, evaluation, documentation, on-the-job and overseas
training and follow-up, including: waste quantity and characteris-
tic surveys, topograpbic surveys, development of operational man-
uals, plans, organizational and financial arrangements, replica-
tion guidelines and audio-visual documentation.



-21-                     ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
(h)  site clearing and preparation, excavations, superficial drainage,
paving, laboratory and worker facility construction, construction
of weigbbridges, oxidation lagoons and subsoil drainage; and
(c)  purchase  of  tractors,  trucks,  backhoes,  compactors,  weighing
scales, and laboratory, workshop and office equipment.
C. Improvement of Institutioral, Financial and Organizational Arrangements
(Merida, Puebla, Orizaba)
(a) studies and technical assistance to assess current systems,
arrangements and practices, recommend and implement improvements,
provide on-the-job training, prepare guidelines for replication,
report and instruction manuals;
(b) improvement of offices; and
(c) purchase of office equipment, utility vehicles and microcomputers.
H.  Development of Public Education and Cooperation Programs (Puebla,
Orizaba)                      I
(a)  studies and technical assistance, including population surveys,
assessment of needs, identification of gaps, development of pro-
grams, preparation of guidelines for repetition, papers and slides
for presentation and on-the-job training; and
(b) purchase of supplies and audio-visual equipment.
I. Regional Transfer, Recycling and Landfill Facilities and Metropolitan
Enterprise (Monterrey Metropolitan Area)
(a) studies and technical assistance for preparation works, evalua-
tion,  documeatation and provision  of  on-the-job  and  overseas
training, including: assessment of locations for transfer stations
and landfills, survey of waste composition and quantity; prepara-
tion of designs and bidding documents, assessment of recycling
needs and labor for sorting, preparation of operational manuals,
evaluation and development of guidelines for replication, audio-
visual documentation, development and implementation of institu-
tional, organizational and financial arrangements including
establishment of a metropolitan waste management enterprise;
(b)  preparation of sites; construction of access roads, weigbbridges,
worker facilities, receiving docks, storage pits and buildings to
house recycling equipment; paving; and fencing;
(c) procurement of overhead cranes, hoppers, conveyor belts, trommel
screens, containers, tractors, transfer trailer trucks, weighing
scales, bulldozers, payloaders, dump trucks and spare parts; and
(d)  special activities, including: test-burns for refuse-derived ener-
gy production, modification of compost plant and waste characteri-
zation for energy recovery.



-22-
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
II. National Component
A.  Tec!tnical Assistance to SEDUE and Beneficiaries 2/
Provision of consulting services to assist and strengthen the project
coordinating unit (TOR in Annex 20), the unit within SEDUE responsible
for carrying out the national component, assisting and supervising exe-
cution of the pilot component and providing special technical assist-
ance and training to the Beneficiary Municipalities; purchase of equip-
ment required for the coordinating unit and central consulting groups.
B. Generic Studies and Project Preparation 3/
(a) institutional issues: review of legal arrangements at the nation-
al and local levels, including regulatory and enforcement proce-
dures; assessment of organization structures, staffing and person-
nel management of subsector entities at the national and local
levels; and definition of institutional/organizational options for
effective and efficient delivery of services (e.g. contracts, con-
cessions, etc.) including provision of technical assistance, where
necessary;
(b)  financial and accounting issues:   examination of  metbods and
options of financing solid and industrial waste management invest-
ments and operations from the municipalities' own and other
resources;  recommendations  on  changes  in the present  system,
sources and flow of funds; evaluation of municipal wate service
accounting, including cost control; recommendations on appropriate
systems and procedures, including assistance to municipalities to
set up systems and devise appropriate user charges wbile options
and plans are being defined and implemented for possibly increas-
ingly sbifting service provision to contractual arrangements with
private entities;
(c) industrial waste information system: identification and classifi-
cation of major industries by produceion metbod, feedstock, type
and quality of waste generated, and waste management practices;
characterization and quantification of representative waste
streams; development and installation of a data base management
system to compile the above information and provide access to it;
provision of training on maintaining the data base, and operating
the system;
(d) municipal solid waste characterization:  definition of parameters
and development of sampling and analysis techniques to identify
and classify municipal solid waste generators and content; gather-
ing information, using the parameters and techniques developed,
2/ For details, see draft TOR in Annex 4.
3/ For details, see draft TOR in Annex 3.



-23-
ANEX 2
Page 5 of 5
from a variety of sources and at various points in the solid waste
handling cycle; compilation of the results of the sampling and
analysis;
(e) impact of disposal by open dumping: development of a data base
and technical framework for the evaluatior of the environmental
impact of open dumping of industrial and non-industrial solid
wastes, to be used as a basis for assessing the costs and benefits
of alternative methods of disposal, including the development and
field application of sampling and analysis techniques, and compi-
lation of data;
(f)  collection, transport and transfer alternat. es:  identification
and analysis of cost factors and relationships; design and instal-
lation of a simplified data hase management system to compile the
Information; developmen. of users' manuals and training on main-
taining the data base;
(g)  markets for recycled materials and recovered resources:  estima-
tion of current and potential quantities and types of recycled ma-
terials and recovered resources from municipal and/or industrial
solid waste; assessment of current and potential markets for the
above products; and
(h) constraints and incentives to recycling and resource recovery:
survey of existing recycling and resource recovery system  and
practices; review of legal, product quality, import/export, and
econonic cost factors that constrain or encourage recycling and
resource recovery; analysis of policy options and actions to en-
courage greater use )f such materials.
C.  Plan Preparation and Prefeasibility Studies in 26 Cities 4/
Assessment of the current status of equipment, facilities, services and
environmental quality; analysis of institutional, organizational, per-
sonnel and financial issues; recommendations, including projects, for
improvements; definition of plans of action.
D. Development and Preparation of Full-Scale Follow-On Projects:
Identification and selection of Reneficiaries; preparation of feasibil-
ity studies including assessment of costs, benefits and risks of alter-
native solutions, incorporating the findings of the studies described
above; design of works, examination of implementation issues and prepa-
ration of designs and execution schedules incorporating knowledge
gained in the pilot component (see Part I).
4/   Puebla,  Isla Mujeres,  Cozumel, Mazatlan, Saltillo, Oaxaca, Salina,
Cruz, Guaymas, Tlanepantla, Ecatepec, Tlaxcala, Ciudad Carmen, Cancun,
Veracruz, Toluca, Oueretaro, San Luis Potosi, Ciudad Valles, Ciudad
Juarez, Durango, Tepic, Ciudad Victoria, Hermosillo, Poza Rica, Jalapa
and Monterrey.



-24-
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 22
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Studies for the Development of the
Solid Waste Management Subsector
1.        Under the national component of the project, in additicn to the
technical assistance (Part A of the component-Annex 4), a number of studies
designed to develop options, and related activities would be undertaken.
These have been described in Annex 2. The studies will include the follov-
ing: Part B: generic studies on key solid waste problems and issues with
development of replicable procedures for improvements . Eight major studies
will be carried out; Part C:  plan preparatlon and prefeasibility studies
in the 26 citles listed in Annex 2; and Part D: development and prepara-
tion of full-scale follow-on projects. An integral part of the studies is
the assistance that will be provided, where applicable, for implementing
the recoumendations.
2.        The terms of reference for the above art in the following pages.
These will be further detailed as necessary. Additional details are in the
base project documents available in the files and at SEDUE.  Should the
need arise and project funds allow, additional activities could be under-
taken.  As with the rest of the studies, the terms of reference for such
additional studies mast be satisfactory to the Bank.
A. GENERIC STUDIES
1. Institurional Issues
The objective of this assignment is to examine the institutional as-
pects of solid waste management, including legal, regulatory, enforcement,
and organizational aspects, from the viewpoint of the sector in general and
of individual municipalities included in the project with a view in the
case of the municipalities to recommending options for the effective and
efficient delivery of services.  The assignment is to include but not be
limited to addressing the following tasks:
Task 1, Legal Bases:   Review and summarize the legal bases governing
solid waste management in Mexico. Include national laws that delegate au-
thority to municipal and state governments for public service and revenue
generation related to solid waste management; national laws that outline
environmental protection obligations on the part of individuals, industries
and municipalities; municipal ordinances that describe resident obligations
for cleaning property frontage, storing and putting out refuse in contain-
ers, and prohibit littering; public health codes; limitations, placed on in-
dustries located in industrial estates; transportation laws governing baul-
age of potentially hazardous materials and controlling vehicle load limits.
Identify apparent gaps, constraints and issues that could influ-
ence the ability of authorized agencies managing solid waste to fulfill
their responsihility.  Discuss findings with local officials of municipal-
ities included within this project to obtain tbeir inputs and opinions.



-25-
ANEx 3
Page 2 of 22
Task 2, Enforcement: Review and summarize the procedures for inspec-
tion and control of individual, industrial, commercial and municipal behav-
ior relative to their legal responsibilities to properly store, handle,
transport and dispose of their respective solid wastes. Discuss the ade-
quacy of vigilance and penalties. Discuss the procedures for Identifying
negligence and enforcing the laws.
Identify apparent problems and ocnstraints, including discussion
of typical time periods between Initial offences and final enforcement
steps. Discuss findings with local officials in municipalities included
within this project to obtain their lnputs and opinions. Discuss findings
with persons involved generally in legal work and enforcement within Mexico
to determine wbether there are enforcement procedures which are working
well witbin other sectors and which might well apply to the solid waste
management sector.
Task 3, Organizational Structure: Provide a comprehensive overview of
where  solid  waste  management  related  -ctivities   fit  within  the
organizational structures of national, state, and municipal government
agencies (e.g. agencies dealing with public health, water and sewerage ser-
vices, environmental protection, park maintenance, markets, industrial
parks, slaughterbouses, hospitals, vehicle maintenance and repair, street
sweeping, drain cleaning, refuse collection, refuse disposal and recy-
cling). Describe briefly wbetber each agency's authority is advisory, pol-
icy  setting,  operational,  regulatory,  etc.    Describe  briefly  inter-
institutional coordination and channels of commanication.
For the key activities of solid waste management, describe in
depth the organizational structure(s) with direct responsibility for col-
lection, maintenance, repair, transport, disposal and recyclip,.
Describe the organizational status of solid waste managers and
other key personel, including, but not limited to tbeir: accesss to the
budget decision-making process, enforcement versus vigilance authority,
lines of communication upward and downward, access to training, freedom in
biring competent personnel and discharging incompetent personnel, base of
information on costs, opportunities to implement productivity-improvement
measures.
Discuss with local autborities their views on the organizational
structure of the solid waste management system.  Describe apparent prob-
lems, issues and needs, as well as those systems wbich appear to working
well.   Define alternative institutional/organizational options for more
effective and efficient delivery of services (Task 6 below).
Task 4, Staffing:  For the municipalities covered in this project, as
well as others which might provide representative information on the ranges
of systems in place, compile data on the breakdown in personnel by major
category.  Differentiate between the numbers of employees whicb are perma-
nent employees and those wbich are casual laborers. Describe the extent to
wbicb certain categories of labor are fulfilled tbrougb contracts with the
private sector. Assess wbich categories of work appear to be adequately



-26-           ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 22
staffed, and which are either under-staffed or over-staffed. Analyze the
ratios of personnel numbers to population served or trucks available in the
fleet or surface area of service.   Determine whether and how public and
private solid waste services differ in their staffing. Discuss findings,
including positlve aspects of present staffing as well as staffing proh-
lems, issues and needs, with local authorities. Discuss limiting factors
on the ability of the service to operate in a cost-effective manner (e.g.
lack of Area Inspectors could lead to iiadequate efforts by resldents and
cause more laborious cleaning efforts to be needed, lack of Planners could
lead to continuous "fire-fighting- with little ability to determine which
cost-cutting techniques conld apply, lack of Field Foreman could affect
productivity on the part of collection crews and sweepers, lack of Checkers
at the Dumping site could allow trucks to short-circuit areas of their ser-
vice routes and arrive with partial loads).
Task 5, Personnel Management: For the municipalities included in this
project, and others which may he representative of the range of systems
avallable in Mexico, examine various aspects of personnel management as
they may affect the efficiency and effectiveness of solid waste management.
Describe whether the activities for each category of personnel are per-
formed on a task or time basis. Describe whether wages are related to task
or time.  Describe any incentive systems in effect.  Discuss whether the
basis for the incentives system is presently valid for existing service
requirements and available equipment, or whether it was based on an out-
dated time-and7motion study.  Review worker bealth and safety conditions.
Review training programs available and employed for solid waste personnel.
Determine how much and what kind of training would be needed. Determine
whether there are opportunities for upward mobility within each category of
personnel and outline the requirements for advancement.
Task 6, Institutidnal/Organizational Options/Models:   Responsibility
for developing the solid waste sector remains a public obligation and
implies a monopoly by the government since, irrespective of the institu-
tional arrangement, the government is ultimately responsible for policy,
tariffs and legislation on services provided to the consumer. As evidenced
by the tasks shown above, provision of services is principally managed by
government-owned institutions (mostly departments and some parapublic com-
panies) with a sprinkling of unregulated private sindicatos (syndicates).
Inefficiency and ineffectiveness in service provision can in part be traced
to constraints government-owned institutions face (e.g. staff salaries,
non-carryover of unused funds in the previous fiscal year for use in suc-
cessive years, political factors in decisions about staff management, etc.)
The consultants should propose alternative institutional/organizational
options/models for solid waste services. These options could include the
following: (a) contractual arrangements between municipalities and private
companies to provide specific services for operations and maintenance
(equipment, facilities, landfills, billing and collection, etc.); (b) man-
agement contracts between the municipalities and privaLe companies for the
entire operation and maintenance function of the solid waste service; (c)
management contracts between the municipalities and private companies simi-
lar to that in (b) above but with profit sbaring arrangements or productiv-
ity bonus as opposed to simply payment by the municipality for services



-27-
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 22
performed; (d) leasing arrangements between the municipalities and private
companies for operation and maintenance but with the financial risk for
operation and maintenance being entirely borne by the leasing operator
since in this case customers are clients of the company (see below); (e)
concession arrangements between the municipalities and private companies
whereby the private company undertakes not only operation and maintenance,
including commercial risks but also construction and rebabilitation of
facilities and purchase of equipment all financed by the company in addi-
tion to the working capital required for their operation and maintenance;
and (f) arrangements whereby solid waste services would be sbifted to
municipal water and sewerage cowpanies which traditionally are more inde-
pendent and may have the flexibility to implement options that would
improve the delivery of services.
In proposing each option, review and analyze the positive aspects
as well as the negative, specific conditions necessary for effecting each
option and develop sample contractual documents. Under each option specify
the manner in which compensation will be underr'ken (time-based, lump sum,
percentage, cost-plus, fixed fee, etc.), the responsibilities of the public
authorities and the private companies on financing investments to expand
services, renewals, etc. as well as responsibilities for contract super-
vision.
Task 7, Assistance to Central Government:    The Consultants will work
with SEDUE staff to develop the set of recommended changes to existing
laws, policies, enforcement systems, organizational structures, personnel
management systems, etc., as needed and appropriate to better enable muni-
cipalities to perform their solid waste management functions, obtain better
control over the unregulated solid waste activities cf private enterprises,
improve public involvement and recover costs. Institutional changes shall
be recommended in those instances wherein there would be a clearly recog-
nized improvement in service delivery effectiveness, efficiency, costs
and/or environmental impacts.
Task 8, Assistance to Individual Municipalities: The Consultants will
visit, advise and assist, as appropriate, eacb munlcipality included in the
project in implementing institutional recommendations developed during the
course of the assignment.
Task 9, Reporting: The Consultants will develop a draft final report
summarizing their findings and making recommendations whicb could be
applied to making municipal, state and central government institutional
arrangements more supportive of efficient and effective solid waste manage-
ment.  Upon review and comment by key participants and related agency rep-
resentatives, the Consultants will address all comments in preparation of
the final report.
2. Financial and Accounting Issues
(i)        The objectives of this assignment are to examine the financial
and accounting aspects of solid waste collection and disposal, from the
viewpoint both of the sub-sector in general and of individual municipali-
ties included in the project.  The task thus comprises tbree broad avenues
of inquiry:



-28-           ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 22
(a) metbods of financing the service from municipalities" own
recources.
(h)  methods of financing for the service other than the munici-
palities own resources.
(c)  accounting, including cost control.
(ii)       Since consideration of financing options must he preceded by an
understanding of the costs arising, the consultant will probably find it
more advantageous to approacb the task in a different order of the steps
outlined in para i. An essential feature of effective financial management
of the solid waste service, whether under direct public authority responsi-
bility or contractual arrangements, is an efficient system of cost account-
ing, in order to calculate as accurately as possible the true fiscal impact
of the service; and this should he exaoined first.
Accounting
(ili)      It is emphasized that the consultant is not expected to propose
comprehensive reforms in the financial and accounting procedures of munici-
palities generally, or of any individual municipality.  Such comprehensive
technical assistance is to be provided under the World Bank's Municipal
Strengthening Project.   The task of this consultant is rather to examine
ways to improve knowledge of the costs and financial implications of the
solid waste service; budgeting and control of such costs, and, in general,
to improve the financial management of this service by public authorities
while options and plans are being defined for possibly increasingly shift-
ing the service to contractual arrangements with private entities. In this
task he will he expected to maintain contact with the experts responsible
for providing technlcal assistance and witb the task force carrying out the
Municipal Strengthening Program, to ensure that his proposals are consist-
ent and compatible with theirs.
(iv)        The consultant should review the standard of accounting and
financial reporting generally prevalent in municipalities.
(v)        It is important to e"tablisb the principle of a cost center (or
cost centers) for the solid waste service within the accounts of a munici-
pality regardless of whether public autborities directly provide the ser-
vice or wbether it is contracted out. Such a cost center sbould ideally be
integrated into the existing accounting system (e.g. by a system of sub-
analysis of transactions); alternatively it may be a subsidiary cost
accounting operation (in parallel with the general accounting system).
Where accounts are kept only in a rudimentary manner (e.g. simple cash
accounts with limited analysis) it may however he desirable to devise a
system of memorandum (extra-contable) accounts.*  The consultant should
review these options and formulate alternative recommendations in the light
of local practices and service arrangements, preferences, and constraints.
(vi)        To create the solid waste cost center, the consultant should
devise model procedures and records to identify and allocate the direct
costs of the service, and also to establish an equitable apportionment of
indirect ocsts and overhead expenses. To do this, he may need to:



-29-
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 22
(a)    examine payroll and time recording systems;
(b)     formulate a system to assess use of transport and equip-
ment, and to estimate unit costs of operation (e.g. per
kilometer, per trip, per hour), for comparison and cost
control;
(c)    establish a system of valuation of fixed assets (including
land) used for tbe service, to calculate a notional depre-
ciation (or rental) charge; alternatively, debt service
charges may be used as a proxy. In this connection, it is
important that costs financed in the first instance by
others (e.g. BANOBRAS) are incorporated in the accounts,
and not overlooked merely because the municipality does
not itself process the expenditures.
(vii)       Having created the concept of a cost center, the consultant
should devise a model reporting system (cost statements) and a system of
budgeting for the service under various institutional options since by com-
paring actual cost with budgeted expenditures, the scope for economies can
be evaluated.   Here again, the consultant may have to take into account
local constraints and difficulties in implementation.
(viii)      All the proposals developed for the purposes outlined above
should be codified in a brief manual of recommended procedures.
Financing the Solid Waste Service-Sources Outside the Municipality
(ix)       The financial resources needed to finance the greatly enhanced
service desired for solid waste collection and disposal have to be suffi-
cient to cover operating expenses, working capital and capital expendi-
tures.  These may be financed from "own revenues  (taxes and user charges),
loans, specific subsidies, general grants and as provided for in contrac-
tual arrangements with private entities. The consultant should establish
criteria for deciding, as a matter of prudent financial maragement:
(a)    In view of the continuous need for capital to finance the
frequent renewals of e.quipment, to what extent municipali-
ties should be expected to finance these from current rev-
enues (renewal funds or revenue contributions to capital
expenditure) rather than perhaps incur a rolling program
of loan debt, the burden of which may outlive the useful
life of the assets financed.
(b)    In what circumstances borrowing is without question justi-
fied for the capital expenditure in question.
(c)    In what circumstances external grants or subsidies may be
justified for the solid waste service, whetber for recur-
rent or capital expenditures. In this respect, there are
grounds for considering participaciones as representing an
element of local community financing, similar to local
taxation rather than subsidies,  since they represent a



-30-
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 22
share of Federal taxes levied In the area; however, the
proportion properly attributable to any individual service
is not capable of precise computation.
(x)        In the context of loan finance the consultant should enumerate
the sources of funding currently available and the manner in which funds
are cbanneled to municipalities.   The sources in question include loans
originating from various lenders (e.g., commercial banks, development
banks, international organizations) carrying different conditions and dif-
ferent degrees of supervision.  The consultant should review these sources
and examine:
(a)   What conditions are imposed by the respective lenders;
(h)    What control is exercised over the proper application of
the funds lent;
(c)    To what extent the costs to the municipality differ for
each source of funds.
The opinions and preferences of the municipalities as between
different types of funding should be explored. Following this review, the
consultant sbould consider to wbat extent there is scope for consolidating
and barmonizing borrowing procedures and conditions, and make recommenda-
tions accordingly.   All his findings sbould be related to the national
waste disposal investment program and follow-on projects being prepared.
Financing the Solid Waste Service-Municipal Sources
xi.        From the investigations carried out under the preceding sections
and the otber studies being undertaken, the consultant will be in a posi-
tion to produce broad order-of-magnitude estimates of the overall costs of
solid waste collection and disposal in typical municipalities, expressed in
terms of per capita cost, proportion of total municipal expenditures, etc.
xii.       As a general principle, the costs of solid waste collection and
disposal should be recovered from the beneficiaries as a community, rather
than as individuals, because, although individuals benefit from the ser-
vice, the costs to the community of a deficient service are considerable.
Ideally, the most suitable vehicle for financing those costs is a general
property tax (impuesto predial) since this is (i) widespread in its inci-
dence; (iI) within limits, inescapable; and (iii) generally consistent with
ability to pay and with the quantities of garbage produced, and also
because sucb a tax tends to maximize use of the service.  The consultant
sbould assess whetber the levels of property tax presently levied bear a
reasonable relationship to total net costs of solid waste collection and
disposal, taking into account other services provided by municipalities
which may reasonably be considered to be also financed from that source of
revenue.   As a guideline, the consultant should calculate the range of
rates of property tax needed specifically to finance this service in selec-
ted municipalities. In doing so, be sbould take into account the level of
collections acbievable (i.e. allowing for bad debts, exemptions, etc.)



-31-
ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 22
in the llght of the need to provide cash flow sufficient to cover periodic
peaks of expenditure (the regular replacement of expensive and short-lived
equipment), without reliance on possibly unpredictable external assist-
ance.  The consultant is however free to consider other alternatives of
finance.
xiii.      Thougb individual user charges for garbage removal can be coun-
terproductive (because of the different perceptions of benefit as between
the individual and the community), there are cases where such charges
sbould be levied, in addition to or in substitution for a general tax levy,
particularly where superior service is selectively provided to certain
types of premises (e.g. botels, markets) or wbere the general tax does not
reach (e.g. slum communities). The consultant should establish recommenda-
tions for sucb charges, identifying possible bases for charging and recov-
ery (e.g. through collectives or community associations).   In addition,
there will be types of premises where the quantity of trade or           otber
waste produced normally outweighs the revenue derived from property tax and
the consultant sbould make recommendations as to how such premises should
be identified and charged (e.g. by comparing unit costs of service quan-
tity of service, with tax contributions) and metbods of recovery. The con-
sultant sbould wherever possible make a distinction between industrial and
general waste.
xiv.      The consultant is not required to investigate the general econom-
ics of contracting out the solid waste service to private enterprise (this
will be carried out under institutional studies). However, in those muni-
cipalities where sucb a system, partial or otberwise, already exists, the
consultant should examine the contractual relationship (if any) between the
municipality and the contractor, the costs (if any) falling on the munici-
pality and/or the charges to individual beneficiaries of the service and
the extent and quality of the service provided; and make a reasoned judg-
ment whether this represents value for money, or whether the municipality
could provide the same (or better) service at a more favorable cost.
Financing Industrial Waste Management
xv.       The consultant should review the laws and administrative regula-
tions or procedures regarding industrial waste management paying particular
attention to the respective roles of SEDUE, industries and municipalities
in the management and financing of the proper disposal of such wastes.
xvi.      In so doing the consultant should evaluate:
(a) existing financing systems and available resources.
(b)  the extent of participation by industries in financing the
disposal of such wastes;
(c) options for possible collaboration between generating indus-
tries and municipalities in defraying the costs of indus-
trial waste management; and



-32-
ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 22
(d) options for financing industrial waste management in the 20
defined Industrial zones currently identified by SEDUE; and
make appropriate recommendations on the above items includ-
ing possible strategies for implementing them.
Assistance to Individual Municipalities
xvii.     The consultant will be expected to assist and advise each munici-
pality included in the project, in the introduction and implementation of
the accounting and administrative procedures developed during the course of
the assignment. In this, he sbould bave regard to the institutional and
personnel structure of the municipality, the location of the solid waste
department in that structure and posstble proposals for institutional and
organizational realignment of solid waste service; the lines of communica-
tion and collaboration between the department and otber sections or activi-
ties (e.g. transport, accounting, personnel management); and the general
system of budgeting, recording and classifying income and expenditure of
the municipality.  In particular, he sbould ascertain what records exist
whicb will help establisb service costs (and revenues if any) and identify
gaps.
xviii.     If the solid waste service already generates specific revenues
(e.g. user charges, sales of recycled waste) the consultant sbould review:
(a)    the appropriateness and adequacy of the charges;
(b)    the system of collection and recovery; and
(c)    the division of duties concerned with the recording and
recovery of casb.
and make appropriate recommendations.
xix.       The consultant should, in each municipality, assess the suffi-
ciency, both in quality and in numbers, of the personnel affected by his
recommendations, and their ability to carry out bis proposals. If these
are inadequate, the consultant should advise on strengthening im,-lementa-
tion capacity (e.g., by reassignment, regrading, recruitment, training, or
otberwise).  At all events, the recommendations made sbould be ts';ored to
the actual or likely availability of buman and other resources.  Where
necessary, the consultant sbould recommend structural or organizational
changes where tbese would clearly lead to enbanced efficiency.
General
xx.       The consultant will be expected to submit reports on bis work at
every stage, obtain the necessary feedback and take into account reactions
and representations of the parties interested, before continuing. Accord-
ingly, the consultant must submit a prior program of execution of bis work,
the procedures for review of bis reports and the time limits proposed for
receipt of comments.
3. Industrial Waste Information System
The objectives of this assignment are twofold:   (1) to gather
and, as needed, to generate data and information on solid wastes being



-33-
ANNU 3
Page 10 of 22
produced by various categories of industry operating in Mexico, and (2) to
assemble this data and information by industry category into readily
retrievable filing system (e.g. a computerized filing system).
The following tasks provide steps to be dccomplisbed as part of
this assignment:
Task 1, Identify Industries:  Identify industry categories applicable
to Mexico. Work witb the appropriate ministry dealing with industry to set
up a classification system, using the U.S. Standard Industry Classification
system as a reference point (since a substantial base of solid waste liter-
ature is available for each major U.S. industry category).
Discuss the industry categories with experts in the ministry an
private sector to initially assess wbether there are major differences in
the production procedures or feedstock materials used in Mexico versus the
U.S.
Task 2, Review Background Reports: Review available background reports
which may provide detailed information on the wastes being generated in
existing Mexican industries.
Task 3, Survey Industries:   Develop a list of representative plants
within each industrial category. With the support of SEDUE and the appro-
priate ministry of industry and existing associations of industries, obtain
the support of individual industries to conduct a survey of production and
solid waste management practices.
Also, survey private haulers and waste disposal facilities U+ich
are handling industrial wastes.
Obtain available information on the physical form of the solid
wastes (e.g., sludge, dry material, fine-grained powder, tar, tank bot-
toms), general composition (e.g., putrescible organic, resistant organic,
inerts, reactive inorganics), bazardous components (e.g. heavy metal
cations, heavy metal anions, non-metallic toxic anions, hydrocarbons, or-
ganic acids, alcobols), reactivity (e.g. soluble, explosive, radioactive,
ignitable, gaseous, corrosive), and pH level (e.g., acidic, alkaline).
Task 4, Sampling and Analysis of Wastes:  For selected waste streams
identified during the survey, obtain samples and analyze fully for composi-
tion and character.
Task 5, Assemble Data and Information: For eacb industrial category in
Mexico, use existing published U.S. literature, Mexico literature, and the
above-mentioned surveys and analytlcal results to estimate the likely auan-
tity and character of solid wastes being generated.  Based on existing
information on the size and location of plants in Mexico, assess the likely
distribution of solid wastes.   Ie'entify where there could be issues of
waste compatibility in the handling and disposal of solid wastes from var-
ious industry categories.



-34-
ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 22
Task 6, Design a Filing System:  After working with the existing data
and information, design a filing system that is compatible with ILs avalla-
bllity and format. Set up the system in such a manner that it can be use-
ful for design of industrial wlaste collection and disposal facilities, as
well as for tracking hazardous wastes. Design a survey instrument and sam-
pling protocol which would enable regularly updating the file.
Task 7, Implement Filing System: Work with SEDUE staff to procure the
appropriate hardware facilities and software packages to enable implementa-
tion of the industrial waste filing system. Write new software or modify
existing software, as needed to make it compatible with the design of the
filing system.
Task 8, File Data and Information: Enter data and information collec-
ted during the conduct of this assignment into the filing system. Check
and calibrate the system as needed to enable it to be readily useable by
SEDUE staff.
Task 9, Prepare a Filing Users Manual: Prepare a users manual for the
filing system.  Provide training to SEDUE staff on operating the filing
system. Develop a program for regularly reviewing, updating, and augment-
ing the filed data and information hase.
Task 10, Reporting: Document the basic information gatbered and data
generated on various industries in the form of a final draft report.
Include discussion of existing industrial waste management practices and
related iSsues as perceived by the consultants during the course of their
industry surveys.  After review and comment by appropriate officials and
industry-experts, address comments and finalize the report.
'. Characterizing MunicipaI Solid Waste
The objective of this assignment is to characterize municipal
solid waste by source - for various types of waste generators and at vari-
ous stages of the storage/collection/disposal system.
The Consultants are to include, but not he limited to, the fol-
lowing steps of work:
Task 1, Review Background Information:   Review reports available on
past solid waste characterization efforts conducted in Mexico.  Compile
results and annotate according to specific study conditions or site condi-
tior-s which may have affected the nature of the results.
Task 2, Review Pending Work of Others: Review the planned work program
of other consultants to be engaged under this project to assess their
potential input to this assignment. As appropriate, work with SEDUE staff
to guide the work of otbers so that coL,srable results are assured to be
useful to this assignment.
Task 3, Design a Sampling and Analysis Protocal:  To fill perceived
gaps in the data and information base on solid waste character, design



-35-
ANNEX 3
Page 12 of 22
a sampling and analysis program. In so doing, this will involve hut not be
limited to the foAlowing determinations.  Determine the location of repre-
sentative sources of solid wastes expected to have different character
(e.g., wastes from dry climates versus wet climates, from dry seasons ver-
sus wet seasons). Determine the generators expected to have wastes of dif-
ferent character (e.g., young shanty towns versus establisbed neighbor-
hoods, high income neighborhoods versus low income neighborhoods, markets,
bospitals, central commercial areas, residential areas with gardens). De-
termine which waste characterization parameters are of primary usefulness
to analyze (e.g., denslty, x putrescible organics, moisture content, Z in-
ert fines, calorific content, x secondary materials).
Work witb SEDUE staff to finalize the sampling and analysis pro-
tocol and engage the support of representative municipalities for its use.
Task 4, Generate Data on Waste Character:   Use the designed sampling
and analysis protocol to generate data on waste character.   Be sure to
check the differences in the waste character at various points in the solid
waste handling system (e.g., at the source of waste generation, after
source segregation of recyclables, after storage at the collection point,
after recycling activities by collection crews, and after recycling activi-
ties in the disposal site).
Task 5, Reporting:   Compile the results of the sampling and analysis
program, together with tbe informatlon gleaned from available literature
and otber project studies. Develop a final draft report presenting find-
ings. After reivew and comment on the report, prepare a final report which
addresses comments.
5. 'A:ssing Impacts of Disposal by Open Dumping
The objective of this assignment is to develop a data base and a
technical framework for evaluating the potential environmental impacts
associated with open dumping of industrial and non-industrial solid
wastes.    The  information  developed  is  to he used  hy  others  in the
preparation of follow-on projects for purposes of assessing the costs and
benefits of other disposal options, sucb as sanitary landfill, composting,
materials recovery and energy recovery.
The following tasks are to be included as part of the assignment,
and modified as needed to provide the basis for the eventual cost/benefit
efforts which would use the results.
Task 1, Identify Various Siting Conditions: Using existing information
of soils, geology, hydrology, hydrogeology, climate, topography, vegeta-
tion, etc., and working with SEDUE staff familiar with disposal practices
in Mexico, Identify various types of siting conditions for open dumps.
Task 2, Identify Representative Open Dumps:   Based on the above, and
after visits to various municipalities tbroughout Mexico, identify repre-
sentative open dumps.



-36-
ANNEX 3
Page 13 of 22
Task 3, Design a Site Survey and Analysis Protocol: Design a site sur-
vey and analysis protocol to investigate issues of: surface water contami-
nation, groundwatter contaminatlon, odors, flies and other vectors of dis-
ease, windblown litter, dust, general aesthetics, hazardous materials,
consolidation and land reclamation.
Work with SEDUE staff to finalize the protocol, select sites for
conducting the surveys and obtain local permissions for site surveys.
Task 4, Perform Field Work and Analysis:  Perform site surveys, sa-
pling and analysis in accordance with the protocol designed. Repeat the
efforts at eacb site, as needed to discern differences between dry and wet
seasons.
Task 5, Reporting: Compile the data and information developed for the
various sites, identify impacts of open dumping in relation to various site
conditions representative in Mexico.  Present the information in a final
draft report. After review and comment by others, address the comments as
part of the final report.
6.   Developing a System  to Analyze Collection, Transport and Transfer
Options
The objective of this assignment is to develop a data base of
cost;ig factors and a simplified computer system which would enable ready
comparis'on of collection and transportation alternatives.
*The following tasks are to be addressed as part of performing
this assignment.
Task 1, Review Background Information:  Review existing reports with
analyses of costs of solid waste management, as available for various Mexi-
can municipalities.
Review planned costing efforts to be conducted by others as part
of this project. Work with SEDUE in modifying, as appropriate, the work
plans of others so that a comparable base of costing information could be
obtained for use in this assignment.
Task 2, Develop Costing Factors and Relationsbips:  Develop equations
of the principal costing relationships for solid waste collection and
transport, including transfer stations. Define the principal costing fac-
tors, including waste parameters sucb as density which generally affect
choice of options.
Task 3, Compile Costing Data:   Collect data for costing exercises,
including data such as: capital investment costs of various models of col-
lection trucks, economic life, maintenance and repair costs, fuel and oil
consumption, driver habits, density of wastes after loading, compaction
ratio (if applicable), crew size considered optimum, ease and speed to
load.



-37-
ANNEX 3
Page 14 of 22
Task 4, Implement System: Based on the anticipated needs of and types
of users for a cost comparison system, recommend appropriate hardware
facilities and software systems.  Work with SEDUE staff to select, procure
and implement the hardware and software.  Design an integrated model for
comparing alternative collection, transportation and transfer scenarios.
Check and calibrate the model, using the data collected above.
File the costing data collected for future use by others, and de-
velop a survey protocol for augmenting and updating the data base as
needed.
Task 5, Develop Users Manual and Provide Training:   Develop a users
manual for the costing model and train SEDUE staff in the model's use.
Task 6, Provide Technical Assistance:  Provide technical assistance to
municipalities, as needed, in evaluating alternative collection, transport
and transfer options. Work with consultants performing the plan prepara-
tion and feasibility studies in 26 selected cities to help evaluate alter-
natives and make recommendations for each.
Task  7,  Reporting:    Summarize activities  performed under  this as-
signment and major findings from the costing exercises conducted into a fi-
nal draft report. After review and comment by others, address comments and
provide a final report.
7. Markets for Recycled Materials and Recovered Resources
The objective of this study is to assess the existing and poten-
tial markets for recycled materials and recovered resources which could be
obtained from municipal and/or industrial solid waste.
The following tasks are to be included in addressing the study
objective.
Task 1, Review Published Literature on Recycling and Resource Recovery:
Briefly review existing and readily available documents on recycling and
resource recovery, particularly those discussing activities in Mexico and
other Latin American countries.
Task 2, Review Background Information on Mexico's Wastes:   Reviev
existing information, including information being generated by other con-
sultants participating in this project, on the quantity and character of
Mexican wastes:   by region, source, and at various points in the solid
waste storage/collection/disposal cycle.
Task 3, Define Secondary Materials and Recovered Resources: Based on a
review of what is available in various solid waste streamLs in Mexico, and
recyclable or recoverable, define the extent to which materials could be
recycled and reused from solid waste (e.g. paper, plastic, glass, ferrous
metal, nonferrous metal, bone, textile, rubber) and resources could be
recovered (e.g. compost, energy).



-38-
ANNEX 3
Page 15 of 22
Task 4, Estimate Production and Location of Sources:  Based on esti-
mated solid waste quantities being generated and handled, estimate the
amounts available for recycling and recovering.   Recommend where in the
systems it would be most cost-effective to obtain various materials and/or
resources (e.g. at the source by source segregation, at the transfer sta-
tion by materials recovery systems, at the disposal site by resource recov-
ery processing).
Task 5, Determine Existing and Potential Markets: From the perspective
of existing and planned production capability (e.g. for paper, plastic,
glass, steel), provide an overall estimate of the location and capacity of
potential markets for secondary materials.  Examine the extent to which
these markets are already purchasing secondary materials, and the remaining
extent to which they could.  Review prices of secondary materials versus
raw materials as production feedstock.  Review differences in production
costs of using secondary materials versus raw materials.
From the perspective of existing and planned agricultural activi-
ties and the extent to which various crops could benefit from regular ap-
plications of compost (e.g. as a soil conditioner and modest fertilizer),
provide an overall estUmate of the location and capacity of potential mar-
kets for compost. Examine the extent to which these markets are already
using compost.  Assess the need for compost, with respect to soil condi-
tions, cropping practices and competing organic fertilizers (e.g. animal
manure).
From the perspective of exist'ng and planned energy production
activities, examine the location and capacity of electrical generating
plants which could benefit from use of refuse derived fuel and/or mass
burning in modified boilers.  Further examine whether and to wbat extent
facilities requiring metbane gas could benefit from use of landfill gas.
Examine the costs of modifying boilers, etc., for energy recovery from sol-
id waste.   Generally assess benefits In terms of fuel conservation and
costs.
Task 6, Assess Markets' Product Requirements: For eacb of the existing
and potential markets studied under the above task, determine the minimum
specifications acceptable to users.   Furthermore,  assess to what extent
improved specifications (e.g. detinning of recycled cans, washing and
baling of film plastic, color sorting of durable plastic and glass, pulping
and corrugation of cellulose stock, grinding and screening of compost)
could leaa to better p_icing.  Examine the costs and benefits of variousp
techniques for processing recycled materials and recovered materials so as
to obtain a bigber quality product for sale.
Task 7, Summarize Market Demand Potential:  Based on availability of
recyclable/recoverable resources in refuse, existing and potential refuse-
derived product qualities and costs, existing markets, and potential bene-
fits from users of recyclable/recoverable resources from refuse, provide an
overall assesment of market demand potential for eacb type of secondary
material and recoverable resource considered tecbnically viable to capture



-39-
ANMEX 3
Page 16 of 22
from the solid waste stream. For opportunities wherein the existing prod-
uct quality from recycling/resource recovery practices in Mexico does not
meet the user's specifications, assess how improving product specifications
would increase market demand potential.
For markets which are possible but not yet well developed, recom-
mend activities whicb could be followed to develop market demand.
Task 8, Reporting: Provide a final draft report summarizing findings,
conclusions, recommendations and proposed plans of action.   After review
and comment by others, provide a final report which addresses comments.
8. Constraints and Incentives to Recycling and Resource Recovery
The objective of this study is to assess constraints and incen-
tives to recycling and resource recovery which exist in Mexico.
The following tasks are to be included and others added as deemed
necessary for meeting tha objective of the study.
Task 1, Survey and Describe the Existing Systems of Recycling and
Resource Recovery in Mexico: Based on review of existing documents, dis-
cussions with local officials, visits to municipalities, interviews with
scavengers and refuse collection workers and interviews with secondary ma-
terials users, describe the existing systems cf recycling and resource re-
covery practiced in Mexico. Describe the reasons given as to why, within
various regions, selected materials are not being sorted from solid waste
for recycling.
Task 2, Review Existing Procurement Guidelines:   Examine government
procurement guidelines, as well as those used in the private sector to the
extent feasible. Determine the extent to which procurement guidelines, and
their inherent specifications regarding product quality, might be limiting
reuse of secondary materials.
Task 3, Review Existing Import/Export Requirements:   Examine import
requirements to assess the extent to which they may be enabling raw mater-
ials from other countries to compete heavily with potentially recyclable
secondary materials.   Examine whether secondary materials derived from
wastes in other countries are being impdrted as feedstock, and assess
whether comparable secondary materials could be made available from local
wastes.
Examine export requirements (as they may be imposed by either
Mexican authorities or by trade partners) for wbether they limit use of re-
cycled secondary materials wit-.in the export products.
Task 4, Reviev- Subsidies for Competing Products: Exawine whether recy-
clable secondary materials and recoverable resources are being hindered
from purchase by prospective users as a result of subsidies for competing
products (e.g. subsidies for chemical fertilizer, fuels).



-40-
Page 17 of 22
Task 5, Review Energy Consumption and Environmental Contamination in
Use of Raw versus Recycled Materials as Feedstock:  Review existing avail-
able literature and hold interviews with various industry representatives
to examine energy consuuntion and environmental impact differences between
using raw materials versus recycled secondary materials as feedstock.
Assess the relative costs of the differences, assuming that practicable
environmental control technologies were being used to limit contamination.
Task 6, Review Lialility Laws as they Relate to Waste Exchange:  Wastes
from some industries could be used as feedstock or processing chemicals in
other industries. Examine the limiting factors to waste exchange, includ-
ing whether there are issues of liability on the part of the waste generat-
ing idustries for any related hazards which could occur in the user indus-
tries.
Task 7, Determine Other Potential Controlling Factors on Recycling/
Resource Recovery and Define their Affects:   Examine other constraining
factors to recycling and resource recovery as they become evident during
the course of performing this assignment.
-ask 8, Recommend Policy Changes and Plans of Action: Work with the
SEDUE staff and officials from related governmental agencies to develop
recommended policy changes and plans of action which would enhance recy-
cling and resource recovery.
Provide technical assistance to help implement policy changes and
plans of action, as needed and as time allows under the contract.
Task 9. Reporting: Prepare a final draft report summarizing findings,
conclusions, recommendations and plans of action. After review and comment
by others, address comments and provide a final report.
B. PLAN PREPARATION/PREFEASIBILITY STUDIES
Improving Solid Waste Management in 26 Selected Cities
The objective of this study is to achieve comprehensive plans of
action for upgrading solid waste management in 26 selected cities.
The output will he a report delineating needs, recommended plans
(botb capital and operational) and actions to improve solid waste collec-
tion, transport, and disposal (including treatment and recycling).
To address this objective and derive this output, the following
tasks are to be undertaken:
Task 1, Background Information:  Through review of existing reports and
plans and discussions witb local officials, review trends in socio-economic
development in 26 selected cities, issues of environmental protection, and
the workings of formal and informal systems of organizational and financial
management as they may relate to solid waste management.   Since street
sweeping, park maintenance and drain cleaning are often indirect systems of
solid waste collection, the review will include them.



-41-
ANNE 3
Page 18 of 22
Task 2, Waste Quantity and Character:  Observe the solid waste
collection systems, visually noting the slize of containers and parcels of
refuse from households and establishments serviced in each neighborhood,
taking photos for office analysis, and noting the bebaviot patterns of res-
idents.
In selected neighborhoods, if cooperation can be obtained from
municipal authorities and arrangements can he made to use a local weigh-
bridge, estimate the population along a route of mixed population density
and economic level, perform collection, and weigh the vehicle before and
after dumping to derive a per capita waste generation rate. Furthermore,
weigh vehicles from a variety of neigbhorhoods, including markets, to as-
sess differences in refuse density related to source of generation and man-
ner of collection.
In several of the 26 selected cities, it would be useful to con-
duct a survey of individual bouses and establishments to furtber assess per
capita waste generation rates. However, this would require good local sup-
port and coordination from both municipal authorities and residents.  In
those cities wberein SEDUE and the consultant consider it appears feasible
to conduct such a survey during one of the weeks of field work, the con-
sultant will direct the sampling and weighing efforts of local counterpart
staff (usually municipal junior professional staff and/or social workers)
and analyze the results. Plastic bags or containers and a portable weigh-
scale would need to he provided by SEDUE.
Refuse composition analysis primarily provides informatlon on the
quantity and quality of recyclables, but provides little input to the basic
question of how best to get the refuse out of the city. Visual observa-
tions provide basic information on the overall nature of the refuse and
could be considered adequate for this level of effort. However, in several
representative situations as identified jointly by SEDUE and the consult-
ant, the consultant will guide local counterpart staff (usually refuse col-
lection workers) to perform the sorting and weighing efforts for a few
truck-loads of refuse.   Plastic bags or containers, sbovels, large wire
mesh screens with openings of 50 mm and 100 mm, and protective gloves and
sboes would need to be provided by SEDUE for the workers.
Task 3, Equipment and Facility Inventory:   Examine all collection
equipment, workshop facilities, existing disposal operations, and proposed
facility sites. Tabulate information on the age, make, physical condition,
and downtime of all solid waste related equipment. Tabulate information on
the physical condition, strategic location, and environmental acceptability
of all solid waste related facilities. Assess the likely (remaining) eco-
nomic life of all equipment and facilities.
Task 4, Collection Service Level Assessment:  Examine major routes for
bauling refuse to disposal operations and for driving to and from parking/
workshop facilities. Examine minor routes for collecting refuse from gen-
erators.   Particularly note distances,  road conditions,  true widtb of
access and traffic conditions. Perform time and motion analyses of repre-
sentative crews and vebicles performing collection and transport of solid
waste.



-42-
ANNEX 3
Page 19 of 22
Based on the above, assess the time available for collection,
number of full and partial loads per day feasible under present conditions,
and the subsequent level of refuse collected and population served. Deter-
mine whether rerouting could provide significant savings in baul times and
fuel costs. For purposes of this work, SEDUE should provide the consultant
with one complete set of the best available road maps and topographic maps
of eacb city.
Task 5, Strategic Sitlng of Facilities: Determine whether there is a
need for more strategic location of key facilities that serve as the cen-
tral nodes to the overall system in each city (e.g. parking, workshop, dis-
posal, transfer station facilities). Determine the optimum number of key
facilities that would best serve each city, as a function of area and major
transport routes, as well as political boundaries.
Scan the cities and surrounding environs for potentially suitable
sites for long-term (20 year) land disposal by sanitary landfill and for
other major facilities. Compare potential sites for their strategic loca-
tion, public acceptability, relative cost of land acquisition, relative
cost of site preparation, and apparent relative environmental acceptabil-
ity.
Task 6, Costing Data: Obtain data on productivity standards presently
considered normal and wage rates for all workers associated with solid
waste management, including street sweepers and drain cleaners.   Obtain
information on typical administrative and fringe benefit allowances.
Determine typical number of days and daily hours worked by various workers.
Obtain quotations from local suppliers on a variety of standard
storage, collection, transport and disposal equi-,.aent units.
Obtain local estimates for civil works costing, such as cost per
kilometer of small road building, per bectare of site preparation, and per
square meter of one story masonry building, and per hectare of land pur-
chase.
Obtain information enabling estimation of the foreign exchange
component of each of the above-mentioned unit costs of costing factors.
Task 7, Management Arrangements: Examine systems and arrangements for
organizational management items such as biring, upward mobility, worker
training, setting maintenance priorities, recording service, planning col-
lection routes, public education, and enforcement of ordinances. Examine
systems and arrangements for financial mangement items such as ordering
spare parts, procuring new equipment, accounting, linking performance to
cost, and securing adequate recurrent and renewal funds.   Examine the
institutional structure, including sucb issues as ease of communications,
relationships between responsibility and authority, existing laws and regu-
lations, procedures of monitoring and enforcement, and overall status of
the sector.



-43-
ANNEX 3
Page 20 of 22
Based on the above, assess how to better support the solid waste
system through more streamlined, efficient, and effective management ar-
rangements. Include addressing major issues which prolong downtime, limit
the efficiency and effectiveness of service, disrupt continuity, discourage
worker motivation, minimize access to funds, and limit the data base of
sound continuous planning.
Task 8, Recycling: Review each stage of refuse storage, collec-
tion, transport and disposal for recycling opportunities by residents, ref-
use crews or the private sector. Examine the refuse at eacb stage to see
if there are substantial quantities of paper, glass, metal, or plastic
materials which could be recycled.  Appraise the overall extent of recy-
cling presently being performed at each stage with respect to the potential
available. As appropriate, attempt to determine what are the local con-
straints on the recovery of such materials and the markets which could use
them.
Examine the character of refuse reaching the points of ultimate
discharge, togetber with the climatic conditions of the study areas, to as-
sess the technical viability of producing compost or landfill gas or other
recovered resources, and briefly assess whether there is an economically
viable market for potential products of resource recovery.
Task 9, Analyze Options: For various types of collection, trans-
port and disposal systems considered by the consultant and SEDUE to be
technically viable and locally appropriate, develop comparative costs whicb
show capital, annualized capital, personnel, fuel and oil, repair and main-
tenance cost components - as well as the bottom line of cost per tonne of
refuse handled.
Assess the pros and cons of each option relative to such deci-
sion-making issues as skill level required for operation and maintenance,
availability of spare parts, flexibility of application, potential economic
life, and effectiveness of service.
Discuss the options with SEDUE and otber local officials relative
to planning priorities such as employment generation, foreign exchange lim-
itation, overall aestbetics of the system, public health and environmental
impacts.
Task 10, Recommended Plan:  For each city, recommend a cost-effective
plan of actions and investments for equipment, facilities, staffing, train-
ing and technical assistance to upgrade solid waste systems.   Estimate
local and foreign costs.  Provide a scbedule wbich appears realistic in
terms of local skills and financial ability.
Recommend institutional and financial arrangements to implement
the recommended plans and, over the long-term, to conduct the solid waste
management services.
Provide a schedule of labor in major categories that would be
needed to work within the service of eacb city.



-44-
ANNEX 3
Page 21 of 22
Determine how much money would have to be recovered to pay an-
nualized capital, operating and maintenance costs for the service.
Task 11, Report Production:   Prepare a draft final report which dis-
cusses the existing solid waste management systems, identifies needs, out-
lines problems and issues, assesses options for improvements, and provides
recommended plans of action for improving service levels, efficiency and
effectiveness.
After review and comment on the draft final report by SEDUE and
local officials, prepare a final report which addresses all comments.
C. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT
Development of Follow-On Solid Waste Improvement Projects
The objective of this assignment is to develop follow-on solid
waste improvement projects to address priority problems, issues and needs
in selected cities.
Task 1, Review of Plan Preparation and Feasibility Studies:   In 26
selected cities, studies will be underway under the project to define solu-
t'ons and identify actions. Review these studies to obtain an comparative
overview of priority problems, key issues, needs, feasihle solutions, cost
ranges, benefits, and beneficiaries.
Task 2, Review of Generic Studies:  Generic studies will also he under-
way under tbis project to examine fundamental aspects of solid waste man-
agement,  including:   legislative base, institutional systems,  financial
arrangements, municipal and industrial waste generation and character,
environmental effects of open dumping and recycling and resource recovery
potential.   Review these studies and use the information provided to
cross-check the accuracy and adequacy of the above-mentioned studies for 26
cities, as well as to augment these 26 studies as needed.
Task 3, Selection of Cities:   Cities selected for inclusion in the
project are to have demonstrated problems and needs in solid waste man-
agement requiring integrated solutions including, but not limited to, im-
provements in the following:   institutional and financial arrangements,
collection and disposal equipment and spare parts, resource recovery and
recycling, -repair and maintenance, strategic siting of key facilities,
training of local personnel, public education and involvement, and linkirg
personnel performance to incentives.  Cities whose needs are largely for
financing to purcbase equipment and spare parts are not to be included
among those selected for inclusion in the project.
Task 4, Recommended Plans of Action for Selected Cities:  Provide spe-
cific recomendations on equipment, facilities and personnel needed for
solid waste management improvements in selected cities. Provide recommen-
dations regarding technical assistance, training, institutional arrange-
ments, financial arrangements, public involvement and education. Provide



-45-
ANNEX 3
Page 22 of 22
recommendations on organizational changes that would better enable perfor-
mance to be linked to incentives -  so that personnel wbo are responsible
for important aspects of solid waste service have adequate authority, moti-
vation and support to carry out their function.  Prepare preliminary de-
signs for key facilities.
Task 5, Costing: Develop detailed costs for eacb item requiring capi-
tal investment, and break-down costs into local and foreign exchange com-
ponents.   Provide costs for operation and maintenance related to all in-
vestment items. Estimate the impact of the recommended plans of action on
the existing solid waste management budgets.
Task 6, Financial Assessment: Examine existing revenues and potential
sources of additional revenues which could provide income to the solid
waste management sector. Analyze whether existing and prospective revenues
could enable recovering costs for capital investment, inz:erest, operating
expenses, renewal and expansion of the solid waste service in selected cit-
ies.
Task 7, Impact Assessment: Determine those parties which would benefit
from investments to be made under the recommended plans of action. Esti-
mate benefits to the extent possible, particularly wben recommended actions
are expected to: lower existing costs of maintenance, repair, collection,
haul or disposal; or increase the revenues bases from use fees, resource
recovery or recycling; or diminish the amount of wastes requiring collec-
tion and handling.
Assess impacts to public healtb and environmental protection from
a qualitative view, with qunatitative assessment of impacts to be performed
to the extent feasible.
Assess impacts to the development objectives of the country which
Implementation of the recommended plans of action could have.
Task 8, Institutional and Financial Arrangements: Recommend institu-
tional and financial arrangements on the city, state and national level
which would enable execution of the plans of action as part of a full-scale
project.
Task 9, Involvement of Local Autborities and Reporting: Assist the key
personnel in responsible agencies within selected cities, associated states
and in the central government, as appropriate, to understand the World Bank
procedures for project preparation, appraisal and implementation. Involve
them in review and coment on the studies performed in and for their
respective cities. Establisb the basis of a dialogue with selected cities
and associated states to enable assessing their interest in the full-scale
project and willingness to provide local counterpart staffing and financ-
ing. Compile findings in a base project document.



-46-
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
mEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAG.EMENT PILOT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Tecbnical Assistance
to SEDUE and Municipalities
The overall ohjective of the long-term consultants to work within
SEDUE's Project Coordinating Unit (UC) is to assist In all aspects of im-
plementing the pilot project for solid waste management in a timely, effi-
cient and effective manner and to develop and strengthen SEDUE's capacity
to undertake its responsibility in the solid waste management subsector.
SEDUE shall provide the consultants witb adequate office space and otber
office facilities, including secretarial services.   The consultants will
also, as necessary, assist BANOBRAS to accomplish its tasks under the pro-
ject and provide BANOBRAS staff with any needed training.
Task 1, Technical Specifications: The consultants will work with
UC staff and local authorities -o develop technical requirements for eqadp-
ment and civil works to he procured under this project.  The technical re-
quirements are to be developed so as to enable competitive bids and ensure
cost-effective facilities are procured. This will include developing tech-
nical requirements for procurements by Local Shopping, as well as for those
made through International Competitive Bidding and Local Competitive
Bidding.
Task 2, Terms of Reference: Within the project preparation and
aDpraisal documents are terms of reference for studies, pilot projects and
demonstration efforts to be conducted. The consultants will work with UC
staff and local authorities to use the existing hase of information and
their own professional experience to, if necessary, further detail the
scopes of work for these terms of reference. In addition, tbe consultants
will further detail the necessary qualifications of potential consultants/
contractors and evaluation criteria for their selection.   These will be
subject to Bank review and approval.
Task 3, Contract and Procurement Guidelines:   The consultants
will review and become fully cognizant of all guidelines set fortb by the
World Bank, as well as the Mexican Covernment, for contracting and procure-
ment as they might pertain to this project. The consultants will work with
UC and BANOBRAS staff to ensure that requests for proposals, advertise-
ments, bid response periods, bidding specifications, bid evaluation proce-
dures, negotiating procedures, contract awards, etc., all comply as appro-
priate with the guidelines.
Task 4, Accounting: The consultants will work with UC staff and
local authoriities to ensure that a proper accounting is made of all pro-
ject-related expenditures. Furthermore, a record-keeping system will need
to be developed and utilized to adequately file necessary receipts and in-
spection reports to demonstrate that services and/or goods were indeed pro-
vided and/or delivered according to contract.



-47-
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
The consultants will need to continuously review and update the
project timetable of activities and associated expenditures so as to obtain
adequate local budgets for prominently pending costs.
The consultants will need work with UC staff to expedite reim-
bursement procedures, as appropriate, for monies which the loan or project
line of credit are designed to cover.
Task 5, Contract Coordination and Management:   The consultants
will work with UC staff to coordinate and manage all contracts for studies,
pilot projects and demonstrations made under the aegis of this project. A
significant aspect of this task will involve serving as technical advisors
to the contractors. In addition, it will necessitate regularly reviewing
each contractor's overall work progress in light of contractual agreements,
evaluating _he quality of their efforts, keeping track of the reasonahle-
ness of their expenditures in relation of percent of contract completion,
and maintaining individual contract progress in a manner that works toward
maintainiig the overall project sebedule.
Task 6, Progress Reporting:  The consultants will assist UC and
as applicable, BANOBRAS staff regularly to monitor progress for all compon-
ents of the project. To this end, the consultants will prepare a quarterly
project progress report, which summarizes for each component: actual ver-
sus planned schedule of activities, actual versus planned expenditures,
problems encountered, issues to be resolved to enable progress, inadequac-
ies and/or failures on the part of the contractors, summary of progress
achieved.
The consultants will work with UC staff on the preparation of
semi-annual progress reports on the project for presentation to BANOBRAS
and the World Bank. The consultants will be available to discuss, as need-
ed, specific details of the semi-annual reports with BANOBRAS and the World
Bank.
Task 7, Project Preparation: The purpose of this loan is to per-
fo1m pilot subprojects, demonstrations  and studies that would lay the
groundwork for a full-scale solid waste management project. Throughout the
execution of this project, the consultants are to review and compile data
and information that will be useful for the full-scale project preparation
efforts.
In the latter etages of this project, the consultants are to par-
ticipate in preparation of the follow-on project, including but not limited
to activities of defining the project concepts, costs, benefits, technical
assistance, training, financial arrangements, and institutional arrange-
ments.
Task 8, Training:   The consultants are to work regularly with
UC and BANOBRAS staff in a manner whicb would provide them with optimal on-
the-job training. In particular, the rationale behind recommendations made
by the consultants is to be fully explained and discussed. During field



-48-                      ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
visits to project cities, the consutlants are to openly discuss what they
see and how they would assess it.  Technical reference materials used by
the consultants during the course of this project are to be shared with UC
staff, and copies provided of key articles or sections of published litera-
ture.
At the end of each 12-month period of their contract, the consul-
tants will provide recommendations regarding SEDUE staff requirements for
the pending year(s) of project execution. The consultants will further re-
commend training for UC staff, otber SEDUE solid waste management staff, as
well as BANOBRAS staff.   Training visits to local and foreign facilities
and/or seminars which would enhance the skills and knowledge of SEDUE and
BANOBRAS staff are to be arranged with the assistance of the consultants.
In addition, the consultants should prepare and execute a plan of seminars
directed at SEDUE and BANOBRAS staff, local and national authorities on
solid waste management issues, progress being made in the prolect and needs
of the subsector.
Qualifications
Five consultants would he engaged over a period of four years
each and would constitute an advisory subunit(s) of the Project Coordinat-
ing Unit.
The consultants should preferably be as follows and should have
the following qualifications:
(a)  2 sanitary and/or environmental engineers, with 10 years of
general experience, 5 years of experience in waste (solid,
liquid and gaseous) management and 3 years in wastes as well
as experience in the management and operation of projects;
(h) 1 mechanical or industrial engineer with 10 years of experi-
ence in lndustrial processes or mechanical services (main-
tenance), 3 years of experience in the field of waste man-
agement and 5 years in the area of process and equipment de-
sign;
(c) 1 economist with 10 years of general experience, 5 years of
experience in the development, preparation and appraisal of
projects (including cost/benefit and financial analysis);
(d) 1 communication/sociology graduate with 10 years of general
experience, 5 years of experience in public education cam-
paigns and 5 years of experience in the elaboration and pre-
paration of documents.
Depending on experience and specific circumstances,  adjustments will be
made to accept otber specialities such as planners, chemical engineers; fi-
nancial management specialists would be considered.



-49-                                                        
SOLIM WAiff nIUW   PILOT PEW_
_umen Remourrese ma Lewl of Effort of  S         Celtem:. hr Come     t
(in Sta f-otlh.)
copo_nt/                                 !   Coetrtat staff                                 CoauntTotal
Subcomponent                  9Oeationael        Tait ut    t     Total             creig.                     Tota         aooures
A. Plot Counent
I. worksops                          11.00           1.00          12.00         37.00           8.00          45.00          51.00
2. Market Cotleetlo,                  6.00           -              6.00         24.00           2.50          26.50          12.50
I. Maginal 2ose CoLleCtion           12.75          10.00          42.75         56.25           2.25          58.50         101.25
4. Ladtll tEeene
Recoer  and CnuaostkL. 7.25                     2.00           9.25         24.75           6.00          10.75          40.00
S.  egiog al Lndfill                  6.00           -             6.00          27.00           5.50          32.50           3.S0
6. Industrial Cemetries              38.25          15.00          51.25        331.50           0.75         162.25         415.50
7. nostitutional sad Pian-
clal Arr_aemnts (7 eltiea)       8.25           -              8.25         40 50           2.25          42.75          51.00
S. Public E&,cation                   2.50           -              2.50         2b.00           2.00          10.00          12.50
9.  eIoaal Tranfor Statio.
Watarila lacovery and
Sanitary Landfill                8.13           1.50           9.63        131.00          10.25         161.25         '70.88
Sgrtot*W t                     lRTy           -49.50         149.6I  -1                     9M8.w
3. Natlonal Cocmonent
Coordnating Unit                   316.00           -            316.C0          6.00         144.00         240.00 e/      576.00
Ca arie Studie                        7.25           2.50           9.75         98.50          12.50         111.00         120.75
Pr*blen D.fimtlto-26 Citie           84.50           -             84.50        279.50          58.50         318.00         422.50
Project Prparattion                  17.00           1.00          18.00        118.00          17.00         135.00         153.00
s-ubtotta* WM75                               -T.50         ZJ.32$      --M.              2-.- 59.3      324.00        1    -72.25
Total Staff-Montbs                  5".88           53.00         597.U        1,292.00        121.50       1,611.50       2,211.38
Total Staff-Tears                    45.4            4.4           49.8          ".3            26.8          114.5          184.3
a/ Including 240 moths of engineering studeata' tine.
.; Additioal work in tbli area would be carried out under ganuric stedies of ntional cteomnaot.
i Sight be undr pecial contract with PARO.



-50-                     ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
Overview of Some Subsector Issues
Background
1.       This project is designed to lay the groundwork for the phased de-
velopment of the solid waste management subsector. This annex is designed
to provide an overview of some of the problems affecting the subsector
focussing almost entirely on issues at the local level. The problems is-
pending subsector development are many and often combine to render the
situation even more difficult. Many of the solid waste management problems
in Mexico occur at the level of medium and small-sized municipalities and/
or industrial estates.   Some individual Mexican municipalities sometimes
bave satisfactory elements of a solid waste system but, these are the
exceptions rather than the rule. There is neither a framework nor system
for technology transfer between communities even when the communities
belong to the same metropolitan area.  There is no planning framework to
guide decision-makers. Most municipalities lack professional engineering
and/or planning staff involved in solid waste management.   These con-
straints notwithstanding, adequate contract service arrangements are few.
2.          While local consultants and SEDUE staff have had some site-
specific design and costing experiences in solid waste management, most
lack comparative experience that enables a comprebensive understanding of
the costs, benefits and risks of alternative systems. Thus within a modest
project, an attempt is being made to provide this comparative experience.
The full documentation in audio-visual packages of the pilot suhprojects
will serve a useful purpose for information dissemination among, and trair-
Ing of municipal authorities as well as those at the national level.
Organization and Staffing
3.       Each municipality has full responsibillty for managing solid waste
collection and disposal within its own houndaries.   There is little, if
any, intra-city coordination and there are no regional facilities. Resi-
dential and institutional collection and disposal are usually provided by
municipal cleaning departments, altbough services are rendered by private
entities (sindicatos) or para-municipal agencies (empresas) in some    cit-
ies.   Some industries and commercial establishments contract for private
collection.   Administrative arrangements for municipal solid waste depart-
ments vary.   Some municipal departments are responsible for collection,
transport and fleet maintenance and repair. In other communities, a sepa-
rate department may be responsible for vehicle maintenance and repair.



-51-                    ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
Accounting Is often handled by another municipal department 1/ and person-
nel management, by yet anotber.
4.        There is little managerial continuity; department chiefs usually
change every three years with the inauguration of a new local administra-
tion. Permanent staffs do not generally include professional engineering
or solid waste planners.  Workers usually belong to fairly strong unions
that resist change, and with managers having limited authority in personnel
matters or to implement incentive programs, reforms of existing practices
are rare. Workers commonly augment their low wages by recycling (para 12)
and by tips.
5.       Staff training appears to be rare.  In particular, drivers are not
trained in preventive maintenance, proper vebicle operation or basic acci-
dent avoidance techniques. The workers who handle weste have little under-
standing of the pethways of disease transmission or the simple steps they
could take to reduce health bazards.
Costs and Financing
6.         Because of the shortcoming of the accounting systems in use in
most municipalities (para. 1.11 of the main report and Annex 3) and the
administrative arrangements discussed above, costs of rendering solid waste
management services are not well documented.   It is estimated, bowever,
that solid waste management consumes 30% to 40% of municipal budgets. The
lack of cost data has kept the municipalities from improving cost effec-
tiveness.   Operating costs, to rhe extent they are known, are generally
covered by municipal budgets.   The budgets, which mostly originate from
federal transfers also include, to varying degrees, transfers from the
states. In some municipalities, users are charged a fee per housebold, per
container or per week. Drivers may be authorized to collect the fees.
7.        Investments are also usually financed by municipal budgets, some-
times augmented by contributions from the states. Contributions from local
banks, development agencies and other donors are not documented. In addi-
tion to their budgets, some municipalities receive assistance from the Cen-
tral Government through the technical support of SEDUE for designs and
operation of landfill sites as well as financial support for construction
of the sites. BANOBRAS' limited financing in the subsector has mainly sup-
ported some truck purchases and collection equipment.
1/ It is generally acknowledged by accounting experts that if it operates
under conditions of proper reporting and analysis, there is nothing
necessarily wrong witb such departmental accounting.   The proposed
project would provide assistance to selected municipalities to set up
solid waste 'cost centers- or some other arrangement so that costs can
be properly reported to the general municipal office of accounts and to
provide authorities witb a clear appreciation of the costs involved.



-52-                     ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
Operations and Maintenance
8.       Most cities provide service, albeit often erratic, to the majority
of their residents. The equipment used to collect solid wastes varies from
city to city. The larger cities use a variety of compaction equipment and
some use mechanical street sweepers. Open topped tipping vehicles are used
for collection in the smaller cities and street sweepers use wheel harrows
with cylinders.
9.       Frequency of collection varies with type of neighborhood.  Central
city zones are cleaned daily, and upper income residential areas are
cleaned two or chree times a week. Middle income neighborhoods often are
cleaned once a week.   Some marginal zones are cleaned once a week, if
ever. Residents of areas which are not serviced either burn their wastes
at night, dump it in open land or take it to streets that are cleaned regu-
larly. Most cities lack strong ordinances to discourage littering.
10.      Collected wastes from all sources are delivered to municipal dis-
posal sites.  These may be open dumps, trenches, riverfronts or modified
landfills.  Some equipu.a. tn spread, grade and compact the waste is avail-
able at the sites. The sites do not generally have washing stations for
the workers or scavengers.
11.       It appears that 20% to 25Z of a municipality's (the larger and
better organized ones) equipment is out of order at any time. Facilities
to repair it are limited. Worksbops are crowded and dirty, and mechanics
met usually provide their own hand tools. Stocks of spare parts are mini-
mal. Except in municipalities adjacent to the US border repair delays of
15-20 days are common if its required to import spare parts.   This has
apparently led many munlcipalities to cannibalize a portion of their equip-
ment to repair other items.  Some cities purchase expensive new vehicles
rather than go through the process of obtaining central government permis-
sion to import repl;cement parts while their nearly-new imported ones sit
idle. Central government permission is also required to sell off retired
vehicles and equipment.   As a result, there are large cemeteries of old
equipment adjoining the workshops.
Recycling
12.        Most municipal cleaning companies allow their workers to sort
refuse before loading it. This practice serves two purposes. It provides
the workers with a means to augment their incomes, in some cases by sub-
stantial amounts (in one town, estimated at 40% of wages). It also acts as
a major incentive for the workers to complete their routes. The practices
may be a disincentive to providing service to low-income areas, bowever,
because of the lack of recycleable materials there. Scavengers (men, women
and children, as well as animals) are found at all municipal dumps. Scav-
enging appears to be well, if informally organized. The scavengers appear
to bave a network and a chief. Recovered items are sold on site to middle-
men wbo control purchase prices.   As a result, scavengers earn barely
enough (about Mex$700/day) to meet basic needs. Very few cities incorpo-
rate the efforts of scavengers into an efficient operating plan (Annex 7).



-53-
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 8
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAG,EMENT PILOT PROJECT
Overview of Solid Waste Management in Beneficiary Cities 1/
I. Puebla
1.        Puehla, in the state of Puebla, is located about 70 miles south-
east of Mexico City. Its climate Is temperate, with about 2,500 mm of rain
per year. Puebla has a permanent population of about .96 million million.
The municipality's significant industries include automobile and pharmaceu-
tical manufacturing and are all located in one zone.
2.        The municipality collects refuse from residences, markets, hospi-
tals and small commercial/industrial establishments.   Some of the larger
commercial/industrial establishments contract with private firms for
collection. The main streets of Puebla appear clean, but accumulations of
refuse along some hack streets, drainage canals and river hanks indicate
that either collection service does not adequately cover all neighborhoods
and/or the public is not heing encouraged to fulfill its role in the sys-
tem.
3.        Large industries are also required hy national law to properly
collect, transport and dispose of their wastes. Although their wastes are
supposed to he d'scharged to approved landfills, a number of clandestine
open dumps receive the industrial wastes. There are no private companies
in the region whicb offer approved waste disposal sites, nor is there an
organizational structure that ties the region's industries together and
which could form the nucleus of a new industrial waste management enter-
prise.
4.         Hospitals and pharmaceutical companies which commonly generate
pathogenic wastes are obliged by central government law to have incinera-
tors.  As the incinerators operate only sporadically, not all pathogenic
wastes are being burned hefore being discharged into the mu-aicipal collec-
tion system.
5.       There is no system to fully account for municipal solid waste ser-
vice costs. The solid waste agency keeps track of only the most obvious
cost elements: salaries, equipment rental contracts, spare parts, supplies,
and major capital investments. Full costs (including depreciation, inter-
est, administrative overhead, utilities, insurances, and personnel bene-
fits) are neitber analyzed nor allocated.
6.        The efficiency of Puebla's solid waste collection operations has
suffered from workers' dishonesty and poor worker management. Because of
theft, vebicles could only he filled with enougb fuel for one day and spare
tires could not be mounted with the result that an excess of productive
vehicle time is lost for tire punctures.  Workers were augmenting their
1/ Excluding Acapulco and Tlanepantla; data available In project files.



-54-
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 8
wages of Mex$500-580 per day by charging the city for working as both dri-
ver and crew on the same shift, charging for repairs they claimed to have
made while they were on their routes and collecting refuse from commercial
and industrial sites not covered by the city service, for large tips. Some
workers were charging the city for as much as 40 shifts during a 15 day
period. Without a preventive maintenance program to check each vehicle
daily authorities were not able to question the validity of the repair
claims (para. 8).
7.       A new municipal administration has begun to make attempts to cope
with these problems and institute reforms.  It is trying to implement a
performance related wage system for workers. It is also trying to change
to a system of paying workers by the load rather than by time.   Route
assignments have been changed to break up some of the iniormal arrangements
of requiring tips for good services and of securing a monopoly over the
routes with the most valuable recyclable material. Change is hard to make,
however, because the cleaning directors are political appointees, of the
sbort duration of municipal administrations and the strength of the work-
er's unions.
8.        Most of the city-owned collection trucks are rear-loading compac-
tion types, and average only one trip daily. For want of a systematic pre-
ventive maintenance and repair program, much of the city's collection and
street sweeping equipment is out of order. Over a year ago, out of the 93
units of collection trucks owned, only 40 were operative. Of the 40 work-
ing, each day about 5 would return to the garage midway through the shift,
reporting breackdowns. Also, out of 16 mechanical sweepers, only two were
operative. Under the new administration, the salvageable equipment (about
balf of the non-working equipment) is being restored.  The vehicle fleet
has been augmented by newly purchased tractors with shovel and loader
attacbments along with tipping trailers, and privately owned trucks (along
with drivers) have been hired.   A maintenance and repair record-keeping
system for each vehicle is also being set up.
9.       Puebla's solid waste management department has its own maintenance
and repair workshop. To progress along the path of improvements that the
city officials have initiated, the department would need a well operated
workshop. The present worksbop building is adequate, but proper equipment
and operating systems are lacking. Only a modest supply of hand tools and
a few new hby-aulic jacks are avallable. Tooling/machining equipment, tire
changing equipment, engine stands, air compression tools, calibrating
tools, etc., are needed.
10.      All collected refuse is brought to the city's modified landfill.
The site appears environmentally suitable and probably has capacity for
about five years. There is no sanitary landfill operating plan designed to
limit the area of working face, direct surface drainage around the site,
vent off methane gas, control windblown litter, and vectors, or minimize
Infiltration of rainwater through the refuse.
11.       About 200 scavengers (including many children) sort the combined
residential/market/commercial/hospital refuse material.  Cans, glass, and
cartons appear to the prime materials recovered for recycling. The local



-55-
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 8
market for plastics is reportedly limited.  The income for scavengers is
reportedly very low, about Mex$150 per day.  Children have been seen eating
some of the food materials they find in the wastes  The agents who buy
materials on-site appear to be making large incomes, reportedly about
700,000 Pesos/month.
II. Orizaba
1.          Orizaba, in the state of Veracruz, has a population of about
125,000 residents.   Its twin city, Cordoba, has a population of about
60,000 residents. Orizaba is nestled in a valley between steep mountains
and a major river about 70 miles southwest of the city of Veracruz. It has
a humid climate, witb an annual precipitation of about 5,000 mm. There is
a significant amount of industrial development, including breweries and
textile factories.
2.        The solid waste management department has a budget and accounts
for such major items as salaries, supplies and equipment purchases. There
are no accounts for administrative and overhead expenses, or vehicle main-
tenance and repair.  There are no direct charges for service.  Industries
may pay a voluntary fee for service.
3.        The municipality collects wastes from residences, hospitals, com-
mercial establishments and industries.   A working shift collects refuse
from most areas three times a week. Market refuse is picked up each day.
On truck regularly collects hospital wastes, although the hospitals have
incinerators for patbenogenic wastes. Hotels and industries are serviced
by a limited afternoon shift. Other municipal agencies provide some spe-
cialized collection services.
4.        The municipality has 28 open dump trucks for collection.  Four-
teen of the trucks are out of service, of which 7-8 could be repaired. A
separate municipal department is responsible for vehicle maintenance and
repair. Although tools are in short supply, vehicles are usually repaired
promptly.   Maintenance and repair records are kept for each vebicle.  A
small stock of spare parts is maintained at the workshop, but there is no
petty cash fund to buy parts which are not in stock.  It may take eight
days to get all the necessary signatures enabling the part to be purchased.
5.       There is a modified landfill for refuse disposal, about 5 km from
the city center.   A front-end loader is used to spread and cover the
wastes.  The site appears to be environmentally suitable and has enougb
space for the next 5-10 years. There is no operating plan to enable full
and efficient utilization of its capacity and minimize environmental im-
pacts.  Municipal officials have been assessing the costs and benefits of a
regiconal landfill, so that heavy landfill equipment could be more fully
utilized and the costs shared.
6.           Workers sort refuse for recycling while on their collection
routes. Cans, plastics, bottles and cartons are recycled. City officials



-56-
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 8
are interested in exploring recycling and resource recovery as a means of
generating funds to cover costs.  They are interested in composting.  As
local soils appear rich in organic materials, however, the market for comr-
post might be limited.
III. Cuernavaca
1.       Cuernavaca, about 55 miles south of Mexico City, is the capital of
the state of Morelos. The city has about 0.28 million permanent residents,
augmented by an itinerant population of about 15,000. It has a warm tempe-
rate climate and has an anninal average rainfall of 1,000 mm. The area has
several industries which are concentrated in one zone.
2.       The municipal solid waste department is responsihle for collecting
and disposing of residential, commercial and institutional solid wastes.
The market vendors' union operates the market's city-built transfer depot
and pays for operating and maintenance expenses. Some of the larger indus-
tries hire private firms to collect and dispose of their wastes. The local
association of industries is keenly interested in the establishment of a
separate waste disposal facility.   The state, wbich is supportive of the
solid waste management system, is responsible for street sweeping.
3.       Cuernavaca's solid waste management system is relatively intensely
supervised.  Two supervisors inspect the city for cleanliness and review
workers' performance. A third monitors the arrival of refuse at the land-
fill, thereby discouraging dumping at unauthorized locations. Each vehicle
averages two trips a day.
4.         The municipality uses mainly compaction trucks for collection.
Side loading, laterally charged units, made in Mexico predominate because
spare parts are readily available.   Imported equipment, however, remains
out of service for long periods because of the difficulty of obtaining
spare parts. The solid waste collection truck driver provides daily pre-
ventive maintenance, monitored hy the supervisors. Repairs are bandled by
the municipal workshop.
5.       All refuse Is dumped at the municipal landfill.  The site is envi-
ronmentally adequate, and has sufficient space to serve the municipality
for 20 years. About 50 scavengers work at the site. The scavengers are
informally organized, with one of their number designated to negotiate pur-
cbase prices witb buyers.   Scavengers earn about Mex$700 per day.  Cows
also forage for food on the site, getting in the way of the buldozers.
Iv. Ecatepec
1.        Ecatepec, In the state of Mexico, is located on the central pla-
teau about 70 miles from Mexico City. The climate is semi-arid. The mu-
nicipality's industry is extensively developed.



-57-
ANNEX 7
Psge 5 of 8
2.        Ecatepec's solid waste management department services residences,
wmrkets, hospitals and small commercial establishments. Refuse is collect-
ed from most areas three times a week. Marginal zones are served once or
twice a week if they are accessible by truck. Residents of marginal zones
that lack adequate roads may ask the city to send a collection vehicle to
the perimeter of the neigbhorhood for the residents to load.  The indus-
tries are responsible for disposing of their own wastes.
3.           Ecatepec has a primitive cost recovery system for domestic
wastes. Residents are asked to contribute an unspecified amount for the
service (usually about Mex$5 pesos a week). The drivers collect the fees,
plus their tips, and pass them on to the municipality. The amount turned
over to the city is at the driver's discretion.   It is believed that,
because the drivers have an interest in maintaining the system, a sizable
part of the fees is passed to the municipality. Private collection vehi-
cles are charged a fee per load to use the muanicipal landfill.
4.       Both open dump trucks and compaction vehicles are used.  The muni-
cipal workshop keeps records on repair and maintenance of each truck. The
workshop faces the typical problems of a lack of tools, a minimal inventory
of spare parts, the lack of a petty cash fund to purchase spare parts and
lengthy procedures to purchase parts for imported equipment.
5.       The city's fenced landfill receives both industrial and municipal
solid wastes. A checker records the entry and approximate capacity of pri-
vate vehicles delivering industrial wastes as a basis for the city to in-
voice the industries. The checker then directs the private vehicles to the
segregated industrial waste disposal areas.
6.         Scavengers at the landfill are registered with the municipal
authorities. This effectively prohibits children and domestic animals from
the site. The scavengers unload the trucks as they search the refuse for
saleable goods.   One buyer has an official concession to purcnase the
materials recovered.   Scavengers in Ecatepec earn about MexSl,5l)0 a day,
more than twice as much as scavengers in other areas earn.  They also
receive some medical attention, and water is available for washing at the
site.   The segregation of industrial and municipal wastes also works to
protect the scavengers' health.
7.        Although the solid waste system Ecatepec is managed better than
most, there is still room for improvement. Loads of industrial waste are
not analyzed. There is no assessment of the compatibility of the contents
of the loads. Optimal means of treatment are not determined nor are provi-
sions made for appropriate final disposal.
V. Merida
1.       Merida is situated on the Yucatan peninsula near some of Mexico's
most famous Mayan ruins. Its permanent residents number about 0.50 million
with an additional 50,000 itinerant residents. The climate is hot, with an
annual average rainfall of 2,000 mm. The city's industrial zone is small,
but plays an important role in the area's economy.



-58-
ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 8
2.        The organization of Merida's solid waste management is unique in
the country.   The municipality collects refuse from public institutions,
cleans the streets and operates the landfill.  Private firms (sindicatoR)
and a public enterprise (empresa) contract to collect solid wastes from
residences and commercial establishments. The public enterprise was formed
four years ago to augment the limited capacity of the private firms.  It
now appears that the private firms had not expanded because of limited
demand for their services, rather than hecause of inability to expand. The
public enterprise's equipment is underutilized, and it is estimated that
about 60% of the city's households do not contract to have their refuse
collected. Some of these residents either burn their refuse in their yards
at night or dump it on the streets with the expectation that the municipal
street sweeper would remove it.   Others take their refuse to city-owned
open sites to burn it (para. 7).
3.       The public enterprise charges Mex$90 a week to collect up to 200 1
of waste. To minimize costs some households save their refuse from week to
week until they have the full 200 1.  The driver collects the fee and
issues a receipt when service is rendered. As an incentive to provide good
service and solicit new customers, the drivers are paid 3% of the amounts
they collect. A representative private firm charges Mex$360 per month with
no restrictions on the amount of waste collected once weekly.
4.         The public enterprise provides door-to-door collection service
once a week, using large compaction vehicles  (about 15 c.m.).   As the
routes are not designed to minimize travel time, most time is spent driving
from location to location. The sindicatos use open tipping trucks.
5.      The municipal workshop is responsible for maintaining and repairing
the street sweeping equipment. The public enterprise arranges to have its
equipment serviced by private workshops. The municipal workshop keeps rec-
ords of each vehicle's maintenance and repair history. The workshop does
have a petty cash fund (about Mex$10,000) to purchase small partp but
obtaining necessary signatures can delay the purchase of large parts by
2-15 days. The frequency with which signatures are required varies from
once to twice a month.
6.        Both public and private firms use the municipality's landfill at
which, as the cost of soil is high (about Mex$750 c.m), the refuse is cov-
ered infrequently. A checker at the landfill records the number of loads
dumped by private firms who are billed Mex$50 per load to use the site.
There is also a private landfill which charges a flat rate of Mex$1,000 per
month. There is extensive scavenging at the landfill but the public enter-
prise's workers are prohibited from recycling.
7.         The city is interested in composting and has had a feasibility
study prepared. Because soil quality in the area is poor and because the
cost of operating a proper sanitary landfill would he relatively high, com-
posting is llkely to be more economically viable. The city owns four open
pits for burning refuse to which some private haulers also take their ref-
use. The pits are foul and unsanitary and would have to be phased out as
soon as more sanitary disposal facilities can be implemented.



-59-
ANNME 7
Page 7 of 8
VI. Monterrey Metropolitan Area
1.       The Monterrey Metropolitan Area (MMA) comprises eight municipali-
ties (M?onterrey, Guadalupe, San Nicolas de los Garza, Garza CGarcia, Santa
Catarina, General Escohedo, Villa Juarez and Apodaca) in the northeast of
the country near the US border. Monterrey is the capital of the state of
Nuevo Leon.  The total population of MMA exceeds 2.6 million, accounts for
822 of the State's total, and is growing at a rate of about 5X a year. The
uneveness of services, strengths and facilities among the municipalities
has led authorities in all of the municipalities to work with the state
government to begin to devise metropolitan-wide solutions that would reduce
costs. Solid waste management, particularly in the areas of transfer, dis-
posal and recycling, is one area in which metropolitan-wide solutions are
to be developed.
2.       Each municipality has its own mayor and public administration, In-
cluding a solid waste management system. The municipalities collect refuse
from residences and small commercial establishments, industries, large com-
mercial establishments and bospital collect their own wastes or hire pri-
vate firms. Monterrey, however, offers ta collect industrial waste for a
small fee.
3.        Frequency of collection varies from municipality to municipality
(e.g. daily in Monterrey, twice a week in San Nicolas), as do labor ar-
rangements. In San Nicolas, workers are free to leave once they have com-
pleted their routes. They supplement their wages by recycling and collec-
ting tips from the residents, and receive weekly bonuses for adequately
cleaning their routes.
4.        Some municipal solid waste agencies are adequately equipped (Mon-
terrey, Garza Garcia), others are not (e.g. Guadalupe). These could hene-
fit from a framework work in whicb there are shared facilities. Municipal
workshops are poorly equipped but appear to operate reasonably well none-
theless. Repair and maintenance records are kept for each vehicle. Pre-
ventive maintenance is regularly provided. Because of the lack of equip-
ment, however, vehicles must be sent to private shops for some servicing.
There are petty cash funds to purchase spare parts and proximity to the US
minimizes the problems associated witb obtaining imported parts.
5.        Most of the municipalities have modified sanltary landfills; the
refuse is covered with soil periodically.  Because of scavenging (para. 7),
the sites arv neitber clean nor orderly. Guadalupe has an open dump that
extends 12 km along its riverfront.  The refuse is spread and graded once a
year, but no cover is provided. The animals that feed at the dump are sold
in the markets.
6.        Monterrey allows private firs to dump at its landfill for small
fees.  One area is designated for industrial wastes, and those that are
identified as hazardous are sent to a separate industrial landfill. Hos-
pital wastes are delivered in specially covered bags with the aim of dIs-
couraging scavenging.   Nevertheless, scavengers break the bags open to
recover rags and other recyclable materials.



-60-
ANNE 7
Page 8 of 8
7.       MIKA's scavengers are members of sall unions that are afiliated
witb powerful national labor unions. Each union demands a separate area
for Its scavengers. In San Nicolas only beads of households are allowed to
scavenge, and opportunities to sort are divided among the scavengers and
the collection workers.  San Nicolas also provides water for its scaven-
gers. Monterrey used scavengers to sort the materials at its composting
plant until it was shut down by fire.  To Increase the earnings of the
scavengers, Monterrey acts as the buyer of the recovered materials.  In the
other municipalities, the buyers often set up storage facilities at the
sites.



-61-
Annex 8
Page I of 6
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
The following tables are attached:
Table 1 - Summary Project Costs by National and Pilot Components
Based on 8-Year Disbursement and Implementation Periods
Table 2 - Summary Project Costs Based on 4-Year Period
Table 3 - Detailed Project Cost by Component/Subcomponent
Based on 8-Year Period
Table 4 - Detailed Project Cost Based on 4-Year Period
Table 5 - Pilot Project Cost Matrix by Component/Beneficiary



-62-                                            
Pae 2 of 6
Table I - E=    P ect Coats lb National and Pilot Comonents
Based on-8-Year Diabuerseamnt and    lampltentation Periods
(US$ '000)
COST SUMMARY - EIGHT YEAR EXECUTION PERIOD
COMPONENT               LOC4L      FOREIGN      TOTAL
NATIONAL COMPONENT
1. COORDINATING UNIT
a. Technical Assistance                672.0     1,305.6     1,977.6
b. Equipment and Spare Parts            24.1         9.8        33.9
c. Operations and Maintenance        1,094.3         0.0     1,094.3
Subtotal                        1,790.4     1,315.4     3,105.8
2. GENERIC STUDIES                       710.0        129.1       830.1
3. DEFINITION DF PROBLEMS AND
FEASIBILITY STUDIES IN 26 CITIES     1,967.5       669.0    2,635.5
4. PREPARATION OF FOLLON-ON
PROJECT(S3                             926.0       I59. 0      985.0
TOTAL                      5,293.9     2,270.5     7,564.4
PILOT COMPOT
a. Technical Assistance/Studies      3,841.2       905.9     4,647.1
b. Equipuent and Spare Parts         4,201.5     3,798.1     7,999.6
c. Civil Works                       6,599.2    2,739.2      9,327.4
d. Land                              6,434.6         0.0    6,434.6
e. Other Marks                          40.7         0.0        40.7
f. Operations and Naintenance        2,697.9         0.0    2,697.1
TOTAL                     23,804.0     7,333.2    31,137.2
ENGINEERING AND ADMINISTRATION           391.9         92.2       474.1
BASE COST                          29,489.8     9,695.9   39,175.7
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                   998.1        410.9    1,399.0
TOTAL COST, CONSTANT DOLUARS        30,477.9    10,096.8   40,574.7
PRICE CONTINGENCIES (EIGHT YEARS)      7,069.0     2,356.3    9,425.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  37,546.9    12,453.1    50,000.0



ANNEX 8
-63-                                     Page 3 of 6
Table 2 - Summary Project Costs Based on 4-Year Period
(US$ '000)
COMPONENT               Local       Foreign      Total
NATIONAL COMPONENT
1. COORDINATING UNIT
a.  Technical Assistance                672.0     1,305.6     1,977.6
b.  Equipment and Spare Parts            24.1         9.8        33.9
c.  Operations and Maintenance          547.1         0.0       547.1
Subtotal                         1,243.2     1,315.4     2,559.6
2. GENERIC STUDIES                         710.0       129.1        939.1
3. DEFINITION OF PROBLEMS AND
FEASIDILITY STUDIES IN 26 CITIES      1,967.5       669.0     2,635.5
4. PREPARATION OF FOLLON-ON
PROJECT(S)                              926.0       159.0       985.0
TOTAL                      4,746.7      2,270.5     7,017.2
PILOT COMNPONENT
a.  Technical Assistance/Studies      3,841.2       805.9     4,647.1
b. Equipment and Spare Parts          4,201.5     3,789.1     7,999.6
c. Civil horks                        6,588.2     2,739.2     9,327.4
d.  Land                              6,434.6         0.0     6,434.6
e.  Other Horks                          40.7         0.0        40.7
4.  Operations and Maintenance        2,697.8         0.0     2,697.8
TOTAL                     23,804.0      7,333.2    31,137.2
ENGINEERING AND ADMINISTRATION             391.9        82.2       474.1
BASE COST                            28,942.6     9,685.9    38,628.5
PHYSICAL CONTIN6ENCIES                     989.1       410.9     1,399.0
TOTAL COST, CONSTANT DOLLARS         29,930.7    10,096.8   40,027.5
PRICE CONTINGENCIES (FOUR YEARS)         6,305.2     2,101.7     8,406.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   36,235.9    12,198.5   48,434.4



Table 3 - Detailed Proiect Cost by Component /Subcomponent Baseai on
8-Year  Period(US$   1000)   ,  M61" INu  COLECTIGI                                                                           7. 11571n     k An Fciiuii
CON11011111Local -   Tfuilp                 toaluiKW
.........       .       ........    ..... ... .......                   elf    al Assistece/StedlS          213.0         22.1       233.3
h.  Ijiat   d OPars Pute 1s 10                       195.3       5SI.S         A.  TKMitcal hkintmc./Stuiil            319.l        2,          3.3
#121441  CWOIIPIIT                                                                                                          114.                     145.3         4.   iplnt aid fowl Puwt,                 214.                   33.6
............. .....                               ,.,, , Ci. ilou vErn                                                                                                                                      321         42.9        75.s
d. Land                                   0.0          0.0         0.0         c. Civil Mbr                              9.*          4.2        15.1
1. C00P31331211   Ulln                                                              *.  Ottr Mule                             0.0          0.k0        0.0          .La                                       0.3         3.3         6.6
1.     ratrelnnen  and MaIntenance       30.1         0.0         10.S         e. Ot ions m      l                       6.6         0.6          6
A.  TfthfliCIl Assistance               4172. 0    1,395,6     1,977.4                                                                                            .Oealea    a.tsac                         .           .            .
t.  fiCiulp t and Sp r  Parts            24.1          1.s         3.9               ISntstal                             530.9       242.0       792.9                 btoti                             1411        47.4        429.1
t.  Orations and Maintenance          t,014.3          0.0     3,o09.3        4. LFILL, KAhIILS RECOWIT
hbtatal                          3,710.4      11315.4     3,205.6 #es           C        U 3fON1,.   ILIC 11nAALI                                                          E EKsA0I  fN   lEt
2. KEEEIC SIUSIES                          /10., O      IZ6I1                       *.  ltntb l Aletane/iStadSles            190.3        42.1        232.9         a.  lkbniul Asietantmwlitldit           21S.2         19.4       232.6
'. 'inic  tTIM10.0        .  Ey     nt ard 5 s Part               S31.1.      475.4        792.2        t.  Ely1et ao  Spc Pefts                  13.4         0.0         13.4
3. KriUlTlO  OrF P Es An                                                            C. Civ Uil                                30.9         13.3        44.2         :.  Civil Ibin
FEllSIOl3IY S?T.illS 21124 CIIIES     1,7*5          US.O      2                  61  5   '. tLan                          353.I         0.0       356.9         d.  Laid
V   'tU S        *  C E  l  2.  Otter Owlso 0.0                         0.0         0.          * v.  Otter  I2le
4. MIDIAII   UP hAS-N                                                                ;.  Speratloue an  lifintmnAKe          122.1          o.e       121.1         1.  Ogeratis and RaintiA                  U3.2         0.          3.2
PIICTII3                                1746.,0      15.0                              SubtAtal                         1,032.0        533.0     1,543.0               SuStatal                           24.6         17.t        259.6
TOTAL                       5,293.9     2,210.5      71,44.4        S. IEStitik  14I6t1    LII ILL                                                  9. EMlllL  WWER  5A1114,
KATOIkIlS Emt AO  '414W1
PILOT CO EIT                                                                         a.  TIckaictl kletanel/StWit f           2I9.]        32.3        225.4         LFILL
.. Elpiumt ad Sp             Puarts     270.9        46.*4        74.5
C.  Civil   utis                         40.3        55.5        111.3         5.  iKIICitil AsiStAcIAtedine         1,151.1        133.4     1,440.3
1. W09PIS                         '                                                  d.  Laid                                 243.9         0.0        243.9         4.   EIppaut #0 Ops  tef.1            2,9.6         ,9.9       6,353.9 I .  ,".
..  Otter kris                            0.0          0.6         0.0           civil eltl                           5,9r.9      2,444.2     6,465.
a.  TKtnIla3 IeeltFancglltwdlue          234.2        77.4       333,4 ^               O            d ffalnteacu           322.10         0.6        11.0             to. LId         .                 5,341.5          6.0     5,347.3    J
a. fecmital ksistaKeistkdies  PA, 2  71.4  33). 11                                                                            Otbw NNW%                             4.0  6.6  1.0 i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.OtwMte063.    .
b. Esilpumt ad Spre 'I tr                 54.9        42.0 *                            I                                    1.                                                                                                  I'. perd  mu  1   .  .
t.  Civil biMt                           101.3        11.4       344.9                  MUM                                17tl        tl4.t      1,314.3           .      ratlos i       hint               31
4.  tlald                                213.4         0.0       2t3.41                                                                                                Suttelal                         17,M.g       4,^,b    3212,.
1.Otte  Mu                               40.7          0.0        40.7 6o *  eIEuMI
4.  oper,t3oas and Kalntnvaat.       40.4          0.0        4436            i.  IscKnicotl kSlStAnCs/Stniin        1,229.5       253.0      1,:57.S              latel                            23,3.0       7,3.2    32,337.
SUbtotl                            70   I       IU.0       072.1             b. EIipunt and Spire Puts %33.4                      344.3        45.9
rc. Cijil 'b'h                          320.1        110.5       450.4         EMIMIRIMI     4  1 TIAlI4l              32.9         32.2       414.1
2. NARtE  COLLECIIN                                                                  d. Land                                 243.9          0.0       243.9
o. Othtr Mule                             0.0          0.0         0.                     goE coTs                   24,95.9    7,415.0    31,11.3
.  Tcinical Asesitance/Stodln           173.7 1                 13114.             .  Operations and Khnatenais            319.1         0.0       39.3-
0. EIulpaunt and 5owu  Parts              92.3       133.3       22.31
C. Clvil Mule                              3.0         2.3                                                                                                                    01. III COST              29,4.          ,5.9    39,27.7
d.  Land                                   0.0         0.0         0.0                                                                                             P11151EA. CUh1NI~E2                     9U.1         413.9     2,399.
*   Otter Mutes                            0.0         0.0         0.0
.  Optratio"s and Kivtnancse              32.4         0.0        32.4                                                                                             TOTAL COST, Cmim     UMS             30,477.9    14,574.7
5Subtotal                          303.97       154.7       44.3
S o9  Sttl                       2,294.9       952.3      3,134.7         PRICE CUIIEIICIES Ilio41 T1M1         7,u69.0     2,33.3      9,425.3
PIOJECT COST               37,14.9    12,453.1  s3,36.6
ii!
an
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-6SA
AUNEX 8
Page Sof 6
1    ,ii,. -ftaUm  f t     ilt b             -m 1Tw  ft -u
_~ Lad  _rdp                                                              (USS 000)
- _ _li
L C          kW
a. Tab      nNsina              19.    1.33.    I.96J
L           - E      PWtib       241       9.3      3.9
C.    _     A       _           W.1        L.       E.1
L WINS133                         TWin U
_IEEE       _     1136        I,Wa3  ,le ZM
4. 33WA 3391336
ommo                   ~~~mu      336.6    33.
twa                   a7  21s  TAM2
31._                                                                                                                           - 
4. _1011                                                                l     d. ima   '  a.   Jai  l o         a gj    S
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E  a                                                                                       L  go_p    ad %.m  sw            3L         L
I.    s,z -                                                    -L n.  m.   1~, -,                                                               em .   mta ,a               U. w* 
a. uzd  -           ml        iLl      ELi         ..1ei ilha~Udmu                  g.*      g.m         Ct                                           9.1       4.2       12.3
&. la*"            PWIUm       21.9        41.3       .94 33L               URM   iOdWo Ut     [IL.4      411.4     3    13.2                                      0. Le     L         Le
-6 [WiMi 00                 ILI       43.6      ILI        L  leipat Nd U" tWb             nIA       415.6     "U            0U fto   W.                      Le         463       L.e
C. EMIM                         23.          0      26.0        .      lof                      30.        4.0      *L           C   wille  d i      m             Le        9.0       0.3
d. UN                            MA 41 _            IL4        L  Le __  I?  6   tS333            0        L         0.4
4. udI     aNIm             6.0        0.3      3.1        6.   wiliu   s m lmm            31.        a,          s         _3. 13                                     ge __
Mlii  33.6  192.0  02.1         bhial                      .023.6     33.6    3JI2.U       L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 Elacl Uin  Akmcmu au    1        I
L     33536Xl                                                   U L 313 U_"                                           _         L  IwStem  4W '-__                63.6      0 46.     U3
a. tubaliw14iw3         112.1     Il       13.3  IVA  Ica             ir4dU            13.        =3.      33.C0vuIl                                      L           o       1
>.      W        _ - burn IwIa  3.3a 63.3            3.1        .   _-S233 U,* bu.m Pus        EL.  Cb I                                                          0.0L     0.6         Le.
L  SPAIMt Ml             Lo        3.3      4.2        C. 1312 Irkt                   au        3.       11920.30 dM                           ~        M         u         SI2
u  3 M   s0 .L                               L e      L.0      I L.  U N                       2 L.         U sI   2 6 9a                         i a
-, _tM                           U          .        U         a>.    u                          LU       4.         .0
0. UN              _                  J 4    ,  _S.NW Oull                                      Le    LI    ua*. _ tm.                        gu
f. ftwm     ad IMANIM              ga ee    m            . 33.:itormus   Ml.9 a.4                        3.3.i33m1                        ae
go" ubal2.                             . nu     XL                         I       Q         11.9    u.      a..      13                M                                .4     4.
e:s _ "n gL ^s v
g.           U        3j         160       133       3.                             Puts         33.4 L3402          EL9         S. IUS            W   WI       .L         .3.       .
a. 564133d43       lOW          11L4     4ILI      211.2        L Tl,u iurn         $W         w.aV       u.s      m.30e        L6 1.31   ft343   WA         1.nu         MA    t.0.3
d. 3lM                           Le0       Us        Le0       L.                              2629        0.      26.9        d.  Ul                         1.23.3       LO6    S.31.
a.    Wb                       0.        LI        0.        L. MWU                            LS0       U         U          IL 1633m30I3L
asted               SLI31.    33.0      "LI.            tmgj                       2J169      3.2   63111.7            %VAW                      113,^S0.    34
iii                        EL       7.1m3. 21.131.2
13U3  45 ini m                 291.      ILI      491.3
-   -                20.33.9    7,432sxl.41    SAW
1 6 .a     13.  2.0.3
-3im   aim       43.3      430.    2 .23.
3.3.      33,m.0   6.335I
3   m     cm            U.23L      2.1o.    041641.'



-66-
Table 3   Pilot Project awee coat Nutrix by Comaqmmit/Becalficiary  (US$'OO0)
us.  Seem        ISa                   1313D~~~~~~~~~~~~-.                                    -
L  me  .  a.  1.  .9  b       L I    L.    L                                Le                          LI             SA             b    Lb      Le-U
=     beememem~    '.'I   U.   IILI   19.1               -L1 -   11     L I    be      U                      I               LI    Ue    IA    IA        U              LI     U.     U.      U     3.    111 
L,              ~ILI      U      L3.1    4     U      3               I     I                    L*         LI    LU                                   L.                           U      U     3.       I    1
I  ~ 31 S   SI    U      3       LI     U      LI    IA       U     LI    LI    IA    l~             U      LI     U      U      U      LI  LI                LIeLI         LIeUL@4              ILI   lb.
DLI    RI    DLI   13.1    3.1    DI.I    1.1  U  LI    IA    IA    1.  **~~~~~~~~~~L    **  I.  Le    L       L      LI     U      LI    Lb    L.   DL.   @4           It*
m.~~~~~~~~e              I        .     L  %31L.113
L4.     I    Il      R      3       .       I     L  L I b      UI      ULI                             Ue    LI      I      U      LI     LI    U        U      Ub    U       be.   1U1      L
*.hIIIa           ~~ILI  L.    III      U.     Lb     L.      U      L.    U       L.U                                    L      A      U       I      L              I     L      L        I     L       A     L
LImemUe'                          I     IIU           U       U     LI      I    L        Le              . LI     LI     U      U      Ue     U      LI      LI     Ue   UL              U       U       I     L
labLIm   Ut                          LI      U.      1     U I           L      LI    I.      LI      LI        LI     I-  I                 U      LI      .     LU      LI     LI     LI    L      ILI      LI     LI
I.beeI                        L      R       L      U      L LII    I.          LI    LI      LI    L                 L.U    LI.   L.       L      L      LI      LI      e     UI     U1            MI.   VA      MA
SI    SI    al    13.1    LI    1111~~~~~L.    It L     I      U       *         U      L       I      .      I      L      LI            LI      I     UL     U     1.1    PU.    LIS
L                                                    L.. I  I      L.I '.I  L.I1~         I     A     31         U        I     tL        LI                 LI1-   LI    LU    LII    14       I.   314       L.   SIT
LIS                     I       I,I                 LI      I      t L           LI    LI      LI     L.        LI    LU      LI bA                 L LI           U   LI        LI     LI    LI       LI     LI     LI
*   -- ,               LI     L        I     A      L  I          ILI    LI      LI    LI   LI Le               LI e                          i     U      I        I     U      I      LU      UI     L      U      LI
I.  ~             L      L      LI      LI      I     LI    LLI           3      31      .      hLI   WIII              LI      LI     LI     LI      II    LU      LI                                        me I R  R   I
L St.  mate~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                   Me     m
alt  a     II     LI     LI      U      II     LI     LI              ULI          LI~~ ~ ~ LI       I     1I    DA       1 14 .               LI      LI    -L.    L,    LI         I   DI      31
LUl                      LI    L        I     L       I      I       L       I            I     L      L:       ml    ILl      3.1    LI      I       LI     L      I.    LI      LI      LI      I    SI    ILl 
LIS  LI  II    II  II    II     LI     II             II    LI      U      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    f~L.  II    3U  IA    LI   b    LI      U      Ue    I.        I     Le.    U     S
am-  IA    8-I    LI  1'    LI  LI    I.          LI    LI      LI      II       LI      U      U      LI      A      LI     LI     LI     LI      LI     LI      I     U       U      LI~~~~~~~~~~~~ft.  e  LILe  OI  L
Ile11I                         I      I      .      IIA1   U           11              LI      1 11          ,3.1    lI    31        I              L              I      U       I.A ..1 1.1                UA   1.1b
LI      I     L eI                  L       I      I     U      L       I      L ml3.nu31            I    LI  ILI           LA             LI    LI       LI    Le      I.  1.3.      xi4   M.3
*W a     m              I      .      I    SL        I    W        I     L           1      L          I       LI      U       I      U       e     LU      e      U.    LU      LI    LU      LI     IL     LA      3.
"'b"13                LI     L       I     D       4      L              I     L              U      U        L                  L.  LU                           U L.          U      U       Le    @      3       L
L IS            IA    ~~~ ~~~~ ~~LI    LI   fl  A   R      LI     LI      LI     LI     L.     LI       LI    IA       U       U      U       U     LI      LI     U              .      U      I      U      l
beemA                   I     LI     LI      U                    1      L       U      L      I  e b  LU     Lb     U       IU     U.      U      I       Ub     U                                        'D U U
L. 31133113~            U"    ft    I&       ll       I    111     L II  LI                     LIILI   LI             U        I     ft      U      U      MI      LI    *LI     Ue    IA               31    MA    IL
mm            IA    II~~~~~~~~t    LI 131       L1.       I     I       I      I      U      I        L       A      U       IA     U      U       U      U      U      U      U      I      II    1.   1IMP.
I. h.IIin        ~~~~13.    U1    a:    L       I     U       U     L       L              I     11       L LI           LI DI         3.       A    1.1     31     DL                    II   131       A       .
ama             LI      LI     LI     LI     LI      U      U      II~L   LI    IA                              L.A      U                           U       e     U      u-     U       I.    JU      LU     UI
Samema                        LI  ..I       LU      LI     U       I             I     U .I.    LI            LI     LI     L      Ma       U-   I3..    -1    W.   LM.         U             I     W             Um
"= 1mIeb,bI      3.L   IlA   1.13.     LI-   U1      U       I     L        I     I      4      U        L       I      U      131    34 11.          L      1    .3.       I      U     I    .31      DI1
I                                                    Laa 14 1  31 14 I    ILI  LI    LU  Ue  U  A      LI               LI   11.1      L      LI      Ue                                         Lb I U      1  31   1
L   13 DM11311  ILl    11.1   3.1   11.1   Itt    34  LI   LI      U     L~I    LI                      Le1  -  Di      U      L                     U      UL.                           3      .      L
IL Me                   U      LI    IA       14     LIUU                  U       I    L  LeIe        -         I      II             LI              I     U      U      L       I      L       I     I             S
L ISd                        mlU    LI      U.      LI     L       I     L                      I     L        A      U      U        L LI          LI      Ue Le            -      -      -      Lb   U     LI      L
*ma            U      LI     LI~~~~~~~~~~b,  eI  U  I-   U      LI     LI     Ue     L'               ~      U      -  LI  L.i .LI                               L      LI     Lb    IA       LI     me     LI
I.L        1     ~      U      L  I            IU    L   I I       I              U1     L      U1     LI               L:U    L     L      U      LILI             -      LI    U        U     LI      Ue     U      LI
L                      La     L R   13      :1.1    RI    IN      U      LI     L             LI              L       beIR   @  DLI eI              U       L                     I            LI    11      It      L
a m a     Ma      IA    13.1    Ma      U    13.1    IA      LI     LI     U      LI      LILe    L Le  - I  eLI  LI      LI     L                     L      Ue     U:    uI    LIL                     Ma
L  5   aa  -   LI  LI  LI  LI  Li   U   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U LI   U    I   A                 1.   L                 Le  LI                LI L                   I U U   @    A
U  LI  U  LI  LI   LI      U      U      U      IA     U      1.1      LI     LI      LI       U      U      LI I~~Le  :   LI      Ue     U      U      U             LI     L
I.    5~~~  LI    LI    IA  U LIU LILI          LI    LI      U      LI       LI     U      LI       U      U       LI     U      LI     LI     U      LI      U     3.1    LI    3.1    Urn~~~~~~~~~Le  e  Le Le  ULe    A
a memm 
a    f    l        U~~~~~~~L    LI U    U       e     LI      LI     LI    Le    Ue    LI         IU L                  L               L       LI     L            LL e3  Ill   L.5    SULl   311 1.13
L  a m a         U      LI    LI      U       U      U     ~~~U  U        LI     U      IA     II       LI     LLe ~ A                               U      LI    Le     N 1.3.   1.1 LUL    MU5    U"5   LmI
ObleUmI IeU                                         LI1I-                 LI     U      U      U LI            I .                    U U            U      Ue   L             L LI   .3  LNM.   UK.A  1.31.   LemJ    ,,
L IS "                  U      U     LI    "        U             L      LI       I     U      L  LI                  LI     LI .     Ue    Le      LI             U      LI   .3   UeL   1*1.1  1.3,4  Um  1.
amab.        U      LI     U      ~~     ~~~ ~~~~~~~U LI  LI 'I    L  LI             Ue     LI      U      L       LLI                           U       e      uLII",        U:  UW        U       --     L
I.    5 5         LI      U      LI     U      U      U u    U      LIbe Lb   - -   L   LI L     U.      U       U      L        Le     U               I     U      U LULl    LI M.Il-  LLl   LIf  1.11
me     LI    -U      M  LI U                      U       U     L I.AI    LI           U      U-    &U        LIU                          LI      UI  113.   LaS Sl1.3* L                   5
mm                      m RI L    3   DW.     LI    @4      IA     L L     I .A         LI      I    L-       W.   ..          14     LIL.L,I                      LI   DLI    114   DLI  .1    3.1 3.



-67-
Annex 9
Page 1 of 1
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANACEMENT PILOT PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
The proposed disbursement categories, the allocation of Loan
funds and the disubrsement percentages are as follows:
Amount of the Loan
Allocated (US$'000           Z of Expenditures
Category                  Equivalent)                    to be Financed
A. Pilot Component
1. Consulting services,
technical assistance,
training                      3,800.0                           67
2.  Equipment and Spare Parts    4,700.0                 100% of foreign and
37% of local expend-
itures
3.  Civll works                   7,150.0                           37
4.  Unallocated                   1,.308.8
Subtotal               16,958.8
B. National Component
1. Consulting services,
technical assistance,
training                      7,580.0                          90
2.  Equipment and Spare Parts        20.0                           37
3. Unallocated                      441.2
Subtotal                8,041.2
Total                  25,000.0



-68-
Annex 10
Page 1 of 6
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAG.EMENT PILOT PROJECT
Prolected Annual Investments
The following tables are attached:
Table 1 - Summary of Projected Annual Investments by National and
Pilot  Components  based  on  8-Year  Dishursement  and
Implementation Periods
Table 2 - Summary of Projected Annual Investments Based on 4-Year
Period
Table 3 - Detailed Projected Annual Investments by Component/Sub-
componeat Based on 8-Year Period
Table 4 - Detailed Projected Annual Investments Based on 4-Year
Period
Table 5 - Projected Annual Investment by Beneficiary Based on
8-Year Period



Table 1 - Summary of Prolected Annual Investments by National and Pilot
Components Based on 8-Year Disbursement and Implementation Periods
(US$ '000)
FMO-EAM                                                                                                         EIHINT-ILw
COINPNENT              TOTAL COST      196         1987         1988        1999         1990        199l         IW2         ISS3     TOTAL COST
NATIONAL CINOIIPIIT
1. COROD TIN9 UIIT
a.  Tchnlical Assistance              1,977.6        247.2       494.4        4q4.4       247.2        247.2        247.2         0.0          0.0     1,977.6
b. Equlprnt and Spare Parts              33.9         33.9          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0        33.9
t.  Operations and Naintenance          547.1        136.7        136.9       136.9        136.8       136.8        136.8       136.8        136.8     1,094.3
Subtotal                         2,558.6        417.9       631.2        631.2       384.0        384.0       394.0        136.8       136.1      3,105.1
2. GENERIC STUDIES                         939.1        130.0       200.0        150.0        140.1        85.9         60.0        46.2         25.9       836.1
3. DEFINITION OF PROBLENS AND
FEASIBILIIY STUDIES 11 26 CITIES      2,635.5        263.5      1,054.2     1,317.8          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0     2,635.5
4. PREPARATION OF FOLLOW-ON
MOJECTIS)                                995.0         0.0        492.5       492.5          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0       9S5.0
TOTAL                       7,017.2       811.3      2,377.9     2,591.5        524.1        469.9       444.0        193.0      12.7       7,564.4
PILOT COEOEINT
A.  Technical Assistnce/Studies       4,647.1      1,113.9      1,709.2     1,497.7        336.3         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0     4,147.1
b.  Equilpent and Spare Parts         7,999.6          0.0      3,801.1     4,174.3          7.2         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0     7,1.6
c.  Civil lbrs                       15,102.7          0.0     7,733.9      8,069.9          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0    15,302.7
d. Optrations and Naintmnance         2,697.9          0.0         34.3     1,482.3      1,191.2         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0     2,697.1
TOTAL                      31,137.2     1,113.9    13,255.4    15,213.2       1,524.7          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0    31,137.2
E16INEERIN  AND AtOINISTRATION             474.1         0.0        239.0       236.1          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0       474.1
VASE COST                            38,621.5      1,925.2    15,901.3    18,040.8      2,049.9        469.9       444.0        193.0        162.7    39,175.7
PHYSICAI. CONTINGENCIES                  1,399.0          0.0       700.0        699.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0     1,399. 0
TOTAL COST, CONSTMT DOLLARS          40,027.5      1,925.2    16,601.3    18,739.8      2,048.9        469.9       444.0        163.0        162.7    40,574.7
PRICE CONTIN1ENCIES (EIGHT YEARSI        8,406.9        150.5     2,797.9      4,961.1        756.4       225.0        269.5       133.0        142.9     9,425.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   49,434.4      2,075.7    19,399.2    23,700.9      2,905.2        694.9       712.5        316.0       305.1    50,000.0



-70-
AMNEX 10
Page 3 of 6
Table  2 -  Summary of Projected Annual Investments
Based on 4-Year Period
(US$'000)
CONPONENT             TOTAL COST     1986        1997         1M91        1999
NATIONAL CONPONENT
1. COORDINATING UNIT
a.  Technical Assistance             1,977.6        494.4       494.4       494.4       494.4
b. Equipent and Spare Parts             33.9         33.9         0.0         0.0         0.0
c.  Operations and Raintenance         547.1        136.7       136.9       136.8       136.8
Subtotal                        2,558.6       665.0        631.2       631.2       631.2
2. GENERIC STUDIES                        838.1       270.1        371.9       196.2         0.0
3. DEFINITION OF PR9W00S AND
FEASIBILITY STUDIES IN 26 CITIES     2,635.5       263.5      1,054.2     1,317.8         0.0
4. PREPARATION OF FOLLON-ON
PROJECT(S)                             995.0         0.0        492.5       492.5         0.0
TOTAL                      7,017.2     1,190.6     2,549.7      2,637.7       631.2
PILOT CONPONENT
a.  Technical Assistance/Studies     4,647.1      1,113.9     1,709.2     1,497.7       336.3
b.  Equipment ad Spare Parts         7,989.6         0.0     3,908.1      4,174.3         7.2
c. Civil Harks                      15,802.7         0.0      7,733.8     8,068.9         0.0
d.  Operations and Maintenance       2,697.8         0.0        34.3      1,482.3     1,181.2
TOTAL                     31,137.2     1,113.9    13,2B5.4    15,213.2      1,524.7
ENGINEERING AND ADNINISTRATION            474.1          0.0       238.0       236.1         0.0
DASE COST                           39,62B.5     2,312.5    16,073.1    19,097.0      2,155.9
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                  1,399.0          0.0       700.0       699.0         0.0
TOTAL COST, CONSTANT DOLLARS        40,027.5     2,312.5    16,7M.1    18,786.0       2,155.9
PRICE CONTINGENCIES  (four years)  8,406.9             173.4    2,700.5      4,769.4       763.6
TOTAL PROECT CST                    48,434.4     2,485.9    19,473.6    23,555.4    2,919.5



Table 3 - Detailed Proiected  wnjual Inveattenta by youpoetnt/Subcomyowent (S-Year Period)
gUSS 'W00)
... .t ..                  Zt-       no         TW            _          TF                     ,tt        lt            t      tt 
miutln Nil
I.   5llut 11 twttlat               3,M.0         147.3       Nt,         61.4        XLI        37.         W.1           e.g         e.g      in..
I.  4a4t a4014uo4 Pus                 SI         ILI          iS          Lo9         5.9        L    0.0     .          L,I         LI.       13.
*. 4tatim, ad Iilstoae              t 1,          IS.           I         Si           3.0       130. ttO                 20.6       150.1     1,010.5
Ititual                         I,S0         017.1       U3.1       60.2         1.0         3.0       3MU           1.0         50.5    510.1".
2.  SI wt lSlts                               Stt          3.01 #1.1  11.0 l.6                           ILI         00.0        gO,,       3.3 IS.1
5.   lOISE  0   mu                                                                                                                                             0 . 1AIUOS1I  CIMISICI
IWIStiLItI lUlls to 26(IRU1             tents         154      5,64        1,3,11.          i1 e.e                                                             *a  fcatgaitbi ssalacotlitdvS         3.37.1       OI1LS       PSI         433.1      V70ll3.
0.  POffit!U  NF FRL*U                                                                                                                                              0. Sopipat .4 hugr Purts              Oil,9         0.0         0.0       16.1         5.4                                                      "Lo.
r       St                               "o            to          s.1       muL           Lo                                                      "Lo          C.  Civil owl                         oi'.s         g.e         e.e       w.l          os                                                       644tt
till.c                       1,147 .1      us.:      3,37.0      2,31.1       30.5Ll      '44.1       a44.0        05.0       iLl      5,500.0        a.lheat,., -  Eaistaas                lii..         e.g         e.g        OLi       U.0.0
lifiL  1,111.2  aw  ;3".,    I'Vin's   110.1       40.1        VA. I       MA          lu.1    -'Uthl                                               1,115.5      111.0       170.      1,111.6      13.3          0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0    5.54.1
FILOT CShfl
1. I1tlftOna   tSI WItttt
I.  UlnttSC:'s
a   lghigt  0s, ulastselAl.ahn        3t.4 I        4.5 mt    l.l          w. I             11                                                    g          a. .    teust m vtaser'tSian           l50.2       00.i       ts           IL          g.g                                                      16..0;
1   tlpto"t kd  qlnfs ts               6.?          5.0        ILI          .0.         ge                                                       go           S. I       t ad hu   Puts              mlg          e.g        10          0. L        0.0                                                      So
c. ival tis                           m.g           *g         WI           e.         i.e                                                       9                     o. v l tts    kst .                       4 1g s           ,      ,           Lig                                                      ILI
* hs'ostiasI adI Paiatsa,v           e.g          e.o         Li         R-s         gg                                                        u0.1        I.  hWAtaaNS    lad      gal              .g        e.e         0.0         0.0         0.0                                                       0.0
IdIswtapllt                      O tpts410 I   131.01    SW            4Lt              0.I               e.g         g.m         *o       m1             .leltal                              UA           34.9       M.          0.o          g.e         o.o        o.e         *g          0.3      U
ILI        "IS         11.t ttilt.it                                                         IWL    I      IC  [JI           *
1. mItlt caucst@wtl                    51           .         nKl           .          .                                                  .   ns-l    *. ftlll^l^|^ersttfltln                       xn.          se.    sa.e .1 l                                                                               .m
a.  Vsaiivs  asavmtlvdv               13.          ts           .s         fig         g.g                                                      15.1       I. MEllte, rants.            rl m3, snaRl                                                                                                                        .4 .   @
I.  tpvpra4tq tid Spur Put            30.1          tO        13.5          0.0        0,0                                                      120.1        5.  Iptal   0ninasIt.a                 232.         lii       503.         50.          0.0                                                        *.
cisl tin                   0.3~~~~~~~L  0.0        o.s        0.0         0.0                                                        0.3         0. Ipxipavi  a. * Mua Puts             33.0         0.6       JI.0         0.0         0.0                                                       IL6
P.  Opavatiun ad laastuacs  ~31.0         0.0        12.0        11.0        0.0                                                       31.0        C. Csi*I Oust                            0.5         0.0         kg         Li5         e.g                                                        0.0
Sdlulul                          tZ0 I          .        31.3        ILt          6.          0.          0.0         0.0        0.0        MI*          1. Opliatu ia meOia'lsaaute            33.3         0.0        ILI          0.0        0.0                                                       ILI
a. Won. mmI couttlss                                                                                                                                                 tItatal                           213.5A       3g,v      33.          Ii           5.0         0.0        0.1         0.0         0.0       37.0
5. 31*(lf  705(7 Slothl,
a. ttslt S Iaat f    s(statalt,iit v   Si          3.3         34I0       300.3        tO                                                                     *ntiss IKrs  M  satil
.   plI  a dt t. pu  Puts             351t.1        0S       13.1        112.0         0.0                                                      m1.1          L    IU
i.  t.   ows                          36.S          tO        I0l3          0.0        0.0                                                      m:m.:
1,  hStaus at Oat  ssmat^  t           34l         0,0          0.0         iI        35                                                          h.s        a.  rTaceacal invsiuavtrtxnda        i.ii.tS      U24.0        61111.   1               I.7.0  0.0    ..4a
S t-tasiS                        104.0        3.3        030,3       03.2          5          0.0t S.0                *.1                                t. tl S.  n Ip sa t ad buXst Puts    314,0          01      3,01Ll    1,       011   7.0                                                       . 1.13
"Lo         2.1 0t9.1              141.2       ILI          1.4         6.4         4.1         LI        M.ia Cviii hvis                                  tJ't 0.0    0,0.                     ,031.2         0.0                                                  13.172.1
L   ItL^L Famlall s lSltrtsn          w           twt         n sIKCKO                                                                                           111911U110 .   Mt  a    s'                                   .9    1,101.3       3711.1                                                   1,.7l
*    uniws                                                                                                                                                          Metal.,3                                    ::.1 3n*.1s    11,19.l             m.s           0.0         5.0        t.          i.e       1.
a. btethiral Oqssslaaslltvdvav        121.0         4.3       71.1 Itl                 LO                                                       21..1                                                                                                                      P  
O. d lins t ad  SpusPutt              4 11.1        0.        311.3                                                                             111. 0.0              t.t%s.s                                     1.4:    ma.t   3        .1       ,.1         01.1        045.0      It         lti       ,10.5
a. tariv l hisll fLIm                           0.0       0L         10.0          0.0                                                      is. ll                    a    m     e tl.
Isltotai                        5,503.        04.      tj00.i        5.0                      0.0         1.0         0.5         5.      1,501.                   WuJ,jfl*5M    1,021.1   tl1,.3                              111,161       1,1.1        VA. I       S00..       ItLO        tlOt    19.515.)
sL  .3nB     missM  LtLL                                                                                                                                         Pniuta  mutinmtn                    i,io            9.'       7.0        061.0         0.0         0.0         tO         0.i         0.0     3,37.0
a.Cvi iln maem                ELI051        0.0         tO)       13.3         0.0                                                          l         ili      l 0033 C33U(531            i0'42.0       ItS3.    3            0,111. '%l   10.0        NI          2444.1      131.0       0a.,   op.C.:
I.  (lpaean   ad huet Purts           0.            0.0         0.0       imp           1.1                                                     070.5b'
6.   evtaus ad hAiatus              iti0          LI0         0.0        3.          3.1                                                      1130                     MM  CRT                 so,mi.4    :.hn.    313.    13,31".             1.35.         100.        T32.        310.0       145.    ".016o.
WWIa                            1,310.3       ILI         1.3      5,13.0        114.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0     1,2103



*AM 10
-72-                                                         Pase 5 of 6
Table 4-  Detaile"  Projected Annual Irveatmente Page   -n 4-Year Period
(US$ '000)
1UI                   aI  CST    am16        1237        19          29
GTIIIL CMPT
a. TuIbc    *wddStc                1,I7'.4       s.6       n4.4       4.          491.o
b. EPi_NI   ad 91wr Psrt             39            . SL9     Lo         0.0         0.0
r.  atwtim  ad   tmmm               307.1       136.7      1L3J       134.3       134.1
etabl                         2,53.6       "LO        U31.2       41.2       431.2
11  SUIMIS                             33.1       270.1       371.1      19.2         O.0
IEFIITII  F WPIIIA  e
FESIRIL   uSIB IN 2m a EB            2 2,3.3       a6.5    1,030.2    1,317.9         t.o
PSETInm O FKLU-
KufCTISI                               933.0        0.0       492.3      492.3         0.0
TlOL                        7,017.2    1,19th     2,34.7    2,U37.1        431.2
PILOT CINFT1
1. fl
6. OlinlShtR  ESTET^IB
a. Tedcical guIhStaeSbin            M.6        12L4        137.9       62.3         0.0
b. Ewpiugt Si S. pruts               9L9          0.0       t.9         0.0         0.0      a. TeckaCal oAiSst.w/sta            2.7.3       411.4       27L3       4*1.S       27L3
C. Ciil Pt.                         i9.o          0.0      3..      0         0. 0   .        b. Eupet jt SpWg Parts               ;45.9       n.e         e.g      940.3         5.4
4. Oeretim  Si.tuac                  40.6        0O.         L2        3L5         0.0       C. Civil Irh                         19.3         0.0        0.0       04.3         LO
f. teratle9L  miintuuc              319.3        0.0         0.0       U.9        253.
!                       87~~~~~32.1  123.4    46.9         4.3         0.0
2-CL1t.                       3,347.1      420.4      276.3    2,110.4      S33.
2. SIT sUTan .Manrn
7. TIMTUrl FA FWF.KL
a. Tud!ic leietucebili              193.3      35U          3t.5       77.3        0.0       Sh11ENOT
h. Epipet  d Sp   Ptarb            2231.         0.       22.1         0.0         0.0
C. ivil or                            4.3         0.0        4.3        0.0        0.0       a. rdecsbical Aemi ..tac.ltusl       340.3       5.9       141.3   U     .;         L.
4. i Uer       sh  te os              SLS         0.0       U.@        19.4         0.0      h. Eipeet aS  S     Parts             73.0        0.0       75.0        0.0         0.
c. CiLil krb                         13.I         0.0       IL.         0.0         0.0
Setta                           45tLI 5ILS            33.9        917          0.0      f. teatime at ctIe .                  0.0         0.0        L 0        0.0         L.O
3.365111.W  aiDTI                                                                                   S hIt*w d                       429.1       hSL       2S5.3         L          0.0
a. Teckioal be        rcstuceltdlu  23L.        SZ2         74.4      109.2        0.0   L P. IC EF/TIn  ag VQVfaT
b. Eqeipegt  i Spn Put              33.3         0.0       19.5       132.0        0.0
c. Civl Orb                         243I          0.       245.3        0.0        0.0
4. Opeatinta d S ni Hltuec           30.3        0.0         4.   0.0   LO         0.3
101i1.                          79Lt        5L2       419.2      241.2        10.3
4. L'FM        51I15  EElS?
Se a    s^. Tcbk.L   Oehletucj/Studihg                                                                                           232.3       s.7       JsL*        34.9         0.0
I. Eupeet and Spart Ports            136         0.        123.6        0.         0.
al sdofal o.etra.ian             Z.9          44.3       73.5       93.1         0.0     C. Civil Orb00                                   0.           .         0.0         0.0
b. EqWee td SSpr, Pt                73.2         0.0       781.3       11.9        0.0      4. Swab., J  hti                     23.2        0.0        2.S2        0.0        0.0
c. Civil Orbs                       410.2        0.        410.1        0.0                                                       0.0
f. lprate. U0 Nsaiezmm 2i2.L                      0.0        0.0      127.9         0.0        SubtetaI                         25.4        34.9       11.3        3L9         0.0
"t*o                          1,363.        64.3    1,264.9      233.               9. Sl    t lmeawna s      ,
MTEIUtL Rmw*"n W=myTll
5. ImE 5m1m   w IU                                                                            LEFUFU.
a  Tecictl   ud=ft  c                 3.4 223   3, 5S       53         59.5        I9.5    a. Tecticl At           ff         1,4.3        24.0        3.3        541.0        c.
b. SpiEmut Ji ireb Puts             674.3        0.0         0.       672.7         1.0     .  EwPl   Sdi  "   Parts          4,=..         0.       2,413.7    2,417.2        0.0
C. Civil  rb                        33.2         0           0.0      3.2          0.0    c. Cvil Vris                       13,77LS         0.0    6,761.3    7,031.2         0.0
4. bratis Si   t letmu              111.0        0.          0.        53.3       53.3    *. traumn   S   "iutc               1,973.7        0.0        LO    ,114.2         711.3
6W                            1,3743 3.S      3         LS 3     ,1Ll.       1U.0         s9ttal                        Z2,04.        234.0    9,9        11,139.4      7u9.5
TOW                          3,254       2,83L5     5,3.l    17,3.9    2,155.9
EIUSlBa m  a  tIK STMTIUI           474.1        L.I       23.0       23L.2         0.0
mg CDST                 3S,6215     2,31LS    16,01. I o,1.vo         2,15.9
ESiCAL COmnSElS                    1.3.a         0.        70.0       09.0          L.
TIT CosT,    T    IESo 4,27.3    2,312.3    2,773.1   13,716.0    2,13.
MrE CIN lnNM                      3,404.9       In.4    2,70.53    4,769.4        763a
Pae,T CUT               q4..4    2,41.9   19,4            23,33L4    2,"9.3



-73-                                               AM=10
Wags 6 of 6
!10UD VAM     _ TZI- PtT POue
Table Si Projectad bua_l -fwnet.Natm    a lnlctai-rcluu ofW at ( Teaur Earl})
1981     1937        393      1"       119     1993   3992    9011    Ttal
1. Matilal Co_at                                  ae Cent        1f7       2WY.t   2.W11.5        I   4W   4             TO li1.0  1627    r. '
P7mi. COnt.      -        101.7     300.4      -       -       -       -      -        202.1
Priet  Cnt.     51.2     431.1      703.7    392.5  225.0  263.5  111.0  142.9   2,147.5
Total  .        76.3   2.3111.4   1,400.5    715.5  594.9  732.5  115.0  105.5   9.934.3
11. Plet Coupounet
1. Pebl
1.1  rkmo                                                  7.0        20.1       1.1       -       -      -       -      -        554.4
1.2 Murckt Collactie                                       111.1    139.9       60.5       -       -      -       -      -        2108.
1.5 Induntrial Canatvry                                   14.5       92.1     70.3    1779.1      -      -       -      -      1,135.9
1.7 InotitutlmlPlnvImegi Arreaguunta                       29.7       35.1      29.6       -       -      -       -      -       *1454
1.8 Public lmatlion                                        17.5      ".9        37.4       -       -      -       -      -        129.3
ta./Ads.                                           -        7.7        7.7      -        -      -      -       -         15.4
Dnoe Ct        299.0     390.2      3131.2    179.1     -      -       -      -      2.248.7
Nepal. Cent.      -       12.2      *1.9       -        -      -       -      -         64.3
Price Coat.     22.4      348.5     2113.     51.7      -      -       -      -      2.7.4
2. Orizewcordo1m.                 Total          '120.4   1,07.9   3.I44.9    242.3        -     -       -       -     2,779.2
2. OriueIm/Cordot.a
2.1 ldorbop                                                40.4      241.6      11.7       -       -      -       -      -        117.7
2.2  urket CoDllcttl                                       16.2      331.0      15.       -       -      -       -      -        167.1
2.5 tenmml amdfill                                         51.1       51.1   1.150.o    l0.11      -      -       -       -     I.*7.1
2.7 Inatitatfaal/inancial Arrangamats                      20.7       35.1      29.6       -       -      -       -      -        344.
2.8 Public  dcutioen                                       37.6       94.0      17.5       -       -      -       -      -        329.3
3a3.IAda.                                         -         7.5        7.5      -        -     -       -       -         15.0
mona Cant      150.0      517.4   1.275.1    135.3      -      -       -      -      2,314.5
Flyps. Cent.      -       21.6       46.2      -        -      -       -      -         67.3
Prie Cant.      IL .9     9.7       115.5     41.4      -      _1 _ -                  ms.
Total          170.1      713.7   1.657.0    153.2      -      -       -      _      2.704.8
1. flneatla
1..1 "Mrlnal t<a  Collaction                               1I.5      140.0      74.1      26.4     -               _ _ _          24.2
tug./Adm.                                         -         1.4        -         -       -                                1 -  -  3.4
1aM _ant        13.5      141.4      79.1      25.4                           -        265.6
Fbyni. Coat.      -        5.3        2.9       -       -                                 .0
Prce Cent.       1.4      21.6       20.9      9.4      -      -      -       -         55.1
4. Acapulco                                  Total            19.9     170.1      30.1 .     15.3     -      -       -      _        urn..
4.1 Mrginal                                                33 Colletio  11.5  340.0  79,1  26.4    _      _       _      _        264.2
rnn.tAda.                                        -          1.4        -         -       -     -       -       -         13.
Dan Coat        18.5     14l.4       79.1     26.4      -      -      -       -        26S.6
f7lai. Cent.     -         5.1        2.9       -       -      -      -       -          8.0
Price Coat.      1.4      21,.6      20.9      9.4      -       -      -       -        55.3
Total           19.9      170.1     IO3.1     15.3      -       -      -       _       123.9
5.  ctwepa
5.5 Industrial COetery                                    19.5       92.2      704.8      79.4     -       -      -       -    1.115.9
En*.IAA.                                         -          1.1        5.6      -        -      -      -        -        6.9
Seam Coat      11.5       91.5      710.6    170.4      -       -                    1.122.6
bwni. Coat.      -         14        25.7      -                                        "A  - 2.
Price Coat.     10.5       35.6     186.9     61.5      -       -     -        -       276.5
Total          150.0      112.5     921.0    242.9      -       -      -       -    1.a28.4
6.6 In_ptrald Comn                                        119.4      92.1      704.3    179.4      -       -      -       -    1,115.9
2"./Adn.                                         -          1.1        5.6      -        -                      -        6.9
.unw Coat      119.6      91.6      710.5    179.4      -       -     -        _    1.122.8
f.yi. Coot.      -         1.4       25.7      -        -       -     -        -        20.1
Prtea Cent.     10.5      15.6      35.0    651.5       -       -     -        -       276.5
7. "erj4d                                    Total          139.9      112.6      021.0    242.9      -       -     -        -    1.z2.A
7.6 Landfill. Mterflai  taccov. Conpating                  64.1   1,264.9      211.8      -                    - _  _           1.561.0
7.7 lntitntienal/nnanclal Arraanmmt                        23.2      35.1       27.0      -        -       -      -       -       140.1
Xvg./Adn.                                                  12.4        -        -                                       1       2.4
Ease Ceat       92.5   3,152.4      260.3      -        -       -     -              1.715.7
Nija. Coot.       -       40.1        9.4               - -        -           -        53.7
Price Cent.      6.9     227.1       64.6      -        -       -     -        -       102.8
Total           99.4   3,510.0      1tRJI      -        -       _     _        -    2.077.2
3t. eMoterrey etronoIltan Area
R.1 Mardinal Sena Collection                               15.2     319.2       32.6     27.5      -       -      -       -       264.5
8.9 aidenal Tranfer Statten, Materiatl
Iacovary and Santary Landfill                         214.0   9.859.1  11.159.6    789.5       -       -      -       -   22.042.4
lna./Ada.                                         -       204.1     210.4       -       -       -      -        -      414.7
Dane Coat      2411.2  10,202.3  13.452.6    317.0      -              _       -   22.721.S
Nparl . Coat.     -            441.  48.7      -                   -                   OVA-91.
Prce  Coat.    21.6   1.R55.7   1.166.1    *11.2        -       -      -       -    5,156.6
PILOTr omACPlMIl   TMTALS                        Total          270.3  12.501D.   15.107.4  1.1 0.2       -      -      -        -   29010.1
Dane Coat    1.114.5  11.522.7  15,49.1  1,524.7        -       -     -        -   11.611.
Plipt. Cent.     -       561.5      5a1.4      -        -       -      -       -    1.196.9
Price Cont.    3K.6   2.4095.6   4217.6    541.0        -       -     -        -    7,277.7
Total        1.201.2  16.495.3  20,100.1  2.03.6        -       -     -        -   *0085.9
PRWJETr TMA                                                    2.075.7  19.130,2  21.700.0  2.,35.2  694.9  712.5  316.0  105.6  50,000.0



MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
Owll Project ImpbmentlaHon Schedule by
Component/Subcomponent'
C0N1/                      WA       196"           17              a            ONW            MO            1991            2            1
DCIMW
R:tMbt123J41s2 3 4     23_41s2 3 41  23 4 123J4 123J14 r1  2 13 4
WMOWS COMAPONENT
1. Tcv:1dA:uarce.  I  I  I  I  I  I  I                                    -  -
2. Geeti SKe                                                                                                        I             L 
3 Poblem Daft61!1 &
i--066 MAIN    0000000
PIeeaiIIyStcie        mu.* -- e. O*    -   -  -  -  -  -
4 fb.pmalln db FhoNIn
Rojecs                      .. .. .
PIWOI COMPONENT
1. Walohcps....---                                                   
2. Mote1 Colectlon            c                               
3 Mawgld Zone Cdoflctbi       c   c---n                       
4 Londfl. MaIoee1a Recovwiv
& Corrxevcln
& Reglon SwitmyLaidflI*--                --         -                               
7 k%fftA"~d&R onId
8 RA,lic Educatio & kiwvvNwnwi  ...             --
9 Peglod rrmner Stoticn Maleilal
Reco.'ey & GoVt my Lar%flh  CC               -    -      ---                  
c...... Crgartbk&1ax"ttutnd
'Oetcied riphrnhnffbi ictu.im oe a~abIe hi pject l~aVfI1 Bwk-=06&4



MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
Oe1ll Project Impertenctalon Schedule by
Beneflc(ary/Subcomponntl
KNCIROWN                       W         19"6            19"             19              1969            1990            1W1             1992            W3
UfCCMPONEII                          1  2   3  4        2   3 1 4   1  2  3   4   1  2  3   4   1           3           2  3   d   1   2   3   4   1  2  j   a
NAtIONA COMPOWNT                    i- m- -- m                      -- --                       - -- -- -                   m- -- -                         m
IllOf COMPOHENI
1. TASLA
1.1 1kt                           Ill IIl                                    I
1.2 MwklC 1 ct1o n                   Ill 1   1  1                 -
i.7 h1 utraIoc & Floa,ckl~
I >oo>letsw                           loss    I IIIII11L                    
2 ORQA&4JCVO1DA
2.1 Yk&f"  i
2.2 Mgrke4C CI1ectlon                 is sing                                                                   I
265 *bLEl- - - -  - -    _ _                                                    _  _    _ -    - -
2.7 MlcIro St Fkuwrkd
2.96v                              ...1. _dca  evi  _                 _I _      ___   owl
2...1... _ _ _Icw     _        T   lul l     -       -   -  I 
__I TANIPAIIIA
3.3 Mcg    ooto                   se 111111
a. cArARCO
& ECATEPEC
&6 klk C1e_w                             _ _l   _ -          I _ _ 1  _ _ _ _  I    I                                               I I
& C                                                                                                                                                                      IV-A
7.7 Irsi11wb  & FU,whcl.
IMONTERREY I~CVW4AREA
19 Refoa ?taww UgIlom Weeok Recomvy
VA  a*-30168f



-76-
Annex 12
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
Financing Plan and Implementation Procedures
1.          The financing plan for the project Is as follows:
Resources Required                         US$
(103; current prices)
Project Costs-Pilot Projects             40,085.9
Project Costs-National Component          9,914.1
Total                                    50,000.0
Resources Available
Proposed World Bank Loan                 25,000.0
Beneficiary Contributions                  9,750.0
Federal CGovernment                       12,000.0
SEDUE                                     3,250.0
Total                                     50,000.0
2.            The Borrower of the proposed Bank Loan will be BANOBRAS, but
responsibility for repayment will be undertaken by the Federal Covernment.
3.           The World Bank's Special Account procedures will apply to the
proceeds of the proposed Loan.
4.          BANOBRAS will open a line of credit (project account) under the
overall Mandate Account to be established for the purposes of carrying out
FORTAMUN. FORTAMUN will be set up under a mandate (Mandato) from SHCP to
BANOBRAS. Funds provided for the project will be paid into the line of
credit for application exclusively for the purposes of the project, unless
the Bank shall otberwise agree. The flow of funds is shown diagrematically
in Annex 13. The operating principles of the line of credit Is in Annex
14.
5.          The project consists of a number of pilot subprojects executed
in Individual localitles and a national program of tecbnical asslstance,
studies and policy definition, denominated the national component:.   The
latter will be executed by SEDUE In respect of the technical and managerial



-77-
Annex 12
Page 2 of 3
aspects of the component and by BANOBRAS In respect of its financial
aspects.
6.           For the pilot subprojects in individual urban areas, the fol-
lowing procedures will apply:
(i) Subprojects are selected according to technical, socio-
economic and financial criteria and conditional on acceptance by the local
administrations concerned, as evidenced by letters of interest or memoranda
of understanding issued by the municipalities and/or state governments
which should also provide assurances as to their willingness to contribute
to financing the project.
(ii)   Tecbnical and socio-economic criteria applied are in
accordance with Annex 16. Financial criteria will he directed at ensuring
that the municipality or administration benefitting from the sub-project is
likely to be able to finance the incremental cost arising, including
operating costs and debt service, without prejudice to Its otber services
and activities.   The appraisal metbodology for this purpose will he as
outlined in Annex 21.
(iii)  The subprojects selected, including designs, specifica-
tions and bidding documents will be submitted for prior review and approval
by the World Bank, togetber with their technical and financial justifica-
tion.
(iv)  For eacb subproject, a subsidiary onlending agreement
will be executed (Contrato de Apertura de Credito) between BANOBRAS, the
State CGovernment, and the Beneficiary (municipality or local government)
with SEDUE as a party or between BANOBRAS and the State Covernment in the
case of the Monterrey Metropolitan Area.   It will be a condition of
disbursement of the proposed World Bank Loan for any subproject that the
onlending agreement therefore has been reviewed and approved by the World
Bank.
(v)  Each onlending agreement shall include, as a minimum,
the provisions set out in Annex 15.
(vi) Upon satisfactory execution of the onlending agreement
BANOBRAS will dlsburse from the funds held under the line of credit for the
project, upon certification by SEDUE and the Beneficiary; provided that
BANOBRAS has a right to review the final settlement proposed for each Indi-
vidual works contract to verify compliance with the terms of the contract.
7.          SEDUE will create a'special project unit adequately staffed and
for wbich support will be provided under the project, for execution of the
national component, and assisting execution as necessary, and in con-
junction with  the Beneficiaries, supervision of subprojects, technical



-78-
Annex 12
Page 3 of 3
and administrative support, project monitoring and reporting. It will pre-
pare an Institutional Development Program for each Beneficiary, In con-
sultation and mutual agreement with the Beneficiary.
8.            For the national component, BANOBRAS will make disbursements
upon authorization either by itself or by SEDUE.
9.            SEDUE will prepare semi-annual reports on the advancement of
technieal and managerial activities under the project. These will be sub-
mitted to BANOBRAS, which will forward them to the Bank, together with a
report on the financial aspects of the project, not later than two months
after the end of the semester in question.



-79-
ANlNEX 13
Page 1 of 1
ME)UCO
SOUD WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
Row of Funds
RCME D -X:IYCFWOO
-                      I
I
DNIM ORFA1E N
TO SrA7E & MlUC
Ndlond      
FORTA/SES 
IB ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _           _
PloertikEdfaudtgoiimd bydllUc opOlt pbkCpin(Affu 14). To be usd dscUhvtmPmct& duIgonoed benhclle
FR   GUECTFNE USS 1L0
GOM                          11.000N
Deneflclwludob PlCatco el                                       r 9.75o0
Toldf PoJcCo               Y
Wald 8a*301k2



-80-
ANNE( 14
Page 1 of 4
MExICO
PROPOSED SOLID WASTE MANAGERET PILOT PROJECT
Necanismo Financioro para la Canalisacion de Recursos bajo el
Programa Demostrativo de Residuos S6lidos
(Linea de Credito)
1.        OBJETIVO
El objetivo de este mocanismo sera de ceanalizar los recursos pro-
venientes del Banco Internacional de Reconstrucci6n y Pomento y de las
aportaciones del Gobierno Federal hacia los municipios contemplados bajo el
Programa.
2.        RECURSOS DEL PROGRAMA
Los recursos del programs provendran de un credito del Banco
Niundial, de asignaciones presupuestales del Gobierno Federal por conducto
de la SPP, de los Municipios/Estado y del presupuesto normal de SEDUE.
3.        ESTRUCTURA
Se sugiere que la Operaci6n del Mecanismo Financiero se integre a
las funciones asignadas a la Gerencia de Apoyo a Estados y Minicipios
dependiente de la subdireccion de Banca de Fomento.
La operacion de las lineas de credito a los municipios seleccio-
nados dentro del Programs correra a. cargo de la Subdireccion de Banca de
Fomento, en tanto quo el Comite Directivo de FORTAMUN aprobara todas y cada
una de las operaciones de cr'dito con cargo al Programa.  De esta forma
ademis de la8 funciones asignadas a este Comite, tendria que aprobar las
operaciones que se realicen bajo el Programa de Residuos Solidos.
4.        OPERACIONES
La ventanilla correspondiente operara para financiar:
(a)  la elaborscion de estudios y proyectos tecnicos y financieros
destinados a resolver la problematica del subsector del manejo de
residuos s6lidos;
(b)  la elaboraci6n de estudios y proyectos en municipios selecciona-
doe pars lograr efectos demostrativos; y



-81-
ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 4
(c)  la eJecucion de proyectou demostrativos tSpicos en varios munici-
pios, incluida ia asistencia tecnica requerida.
5.        DE LOS NTJICIPIOS ELEGIBLES PARA LOS PROYECTOS PILOTO
(a) Monterrey, N. L. (Area Metropolitana)
M&rida, Yuc.
Puebla, Pue.
Ecatepec
Tlanepantla
Cuernavara
Orizaba/Cordoba
Acapulco
(b)  los que acuerden la SEDUE y BANOBRAS, con la conformidad de la
S. H. y C. P. y el BIRF.
6.        DE LA FORJULIZACION
Por tratarse de un programs piloto el proceso se origina con ls
carta de interes emitido por las autoridades estatales y/o
municipales:
(a)  los caditos del programs consistentes en obra f3isica o adquisi-
ci6n de equipo so efectuarfin sobre una base que garantice su
recuperaci6n;
(b) lo creditos que BANODRAS otorgue con cargo al Programs a los
Gobiernos de Estados y Nunicipios so regiran por un contrato do
apertura de credito (Subcontrato);
(c) tratandose de Gobiernos de Xunicipios, el Gobierno del Estado se
constituira en deudor solidario del ayimtamiento; y
(d)  la Ingenierla de Proyecto debera ser aprobada por ls SEDUE de
conformidad con las autoridades municipales y BANOEBRS.
7.        DE LAS CONDICIONES DEL CREDITO
(a)  el plazo para la amortizacion de los creditos no podri ser mayor
de 15 alos, pudiendose diferir la amortizaci6n del credito hasta
dos anios despues de terminada la inverui6n de los proyeatos,
siempre que el periodo de gracia no exceda de 4 a3os;
(b) la tasa de interes aplicable sera la que acuerde BAJOBRAS con la
Secretarxa  de Hacienda  y  Credito  P6blico  baseado  sobre  el
"General Interest Rate Agreement--GIRXA entre el Banco Nhndial y
el Gobierno Nexicano; y



-82-
ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 4
(c)  las amortisaciones tanto de capital como de intereses podrafn ser
mensuales, trimestrales o semestrales, segun lo determine el
estudio de las fuentes de pago del proyecto a financiar.
8.        DE LA AUTORIZACION DE LOS CREDITOS
So sometera a la consideraci6n del Comite Directivo de
FORTAMUN, debiendo presentarsele 108 estudios que demuestran la justifica-
cion socioeconomica, tecnica y financiers de los proyectos.
9.        DE LA DOCUMENTACION DE LOU CREDITOS
La unidad responsable de la operacion de los creditos emitira un
aviso de operacion documentada  nma vez que se hayan cumplido las condi-
ciones suspensivas del contrato de credito,1/ (del Subcontrato), pasando,
on su caso, a la etapa de Licitacion.
10.       DE LA LICITACION
Se debera sujetar a lo dispuesto por la Ley de Obra Puiblica y su
reglamento, as3 como a los procedimientos y reglas establecidas por el
BIRF.
II.       EJECUCION DE LAS OBRAS
Se debers observar lo dispuesto por la Ley de Obra Puiblica y su
reglamento.  La SEDUE y BANOBRAS so reserwan el derecho de supervision y
vigilancia de las obras, asi como de la realizacion de aral60os, fungiendo
la SEDUE como responsable tecnico de las mismas.
SEDUE y BANOBRAS se reservan la facultad para efectuar en cual-
quier momento inspecciones, exigir balances, estados de contabilidad y
pedir datos o documentos a los acreditados.
12.       DE LAS AMORTIZACIOIS DE LOS CREDITOS
La recuperacion de los creditos se destinara a la expansion del
Programa de Fortalecimiento Municipal (FORTAMUl) para otorgar nuevos
creditos a los municipios.
I/ Incluye el Registro de Inscripcion de la deuda ante la S.H. y C.P.



-83-
ANNEX 14
Page 4 of 4
ALTERNATIVA (2)
13.       ESTRUCTURA
So sugiere quo el mecanismo financiero opere on la Subdirecoion
de Banoa de Fomento, para lo cual se crearia ina unidad coordinadora qua
estaria configurada por un coordinador, UL analista financiero, un tscnioo
especializado y un operador de crsditos.
Cabe senalar que esta Unidad podria integrarse atrav's  de una
reubicacion de personal ya existente en el BANOBRAS, mientras que el Comite
Directivo de FORTAJUN aprobaria todos y cada uans de las operaciones con
cargo al Programa. De esta forma, ademas de las funciones asignadas a este
Comite, tendria que aprobar las operaciones que se realicen bajo el mismo.



-84-
ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
Provisions and Clauses to be Included in
Each Onlending Agreement for SubproJects
1.        The amount of the subsidiary loan.
2.           Description of the subproject and its estimated cost, distin-
guishing between (a) physical works and equipment (b) technical assist-
ance/studies (see para. 4 below).
3.           Requirement that the proceeds will be applied exclusively for
costs of the subproject, including engineering and supervision at 3Z of
cost of works, consulting services and capitalized interest.
4.           Repayment periodicity and amortization period, inclusive of a
grace period not exceeding 4 years or the forecast implementation period,
whichever is less. Technical assistance/studies, however, will be express-
ly excluded from repayment.
5.        Interest rate(s) to be applie.l.  During the grace period interest
would he capitalized. Provisions concerning periodic revision of rate.
6           SEDUE will prepare, in collaboration witb the Beneficiary, the
subprojects (including bid evaluation), and assist as necessary to execute,
and supervise works in collaboration with the Beneficiary, and assisted if
need be by consultants.
7.        A specific statement that procurement will be in accordance with
World Bank guidelines and that bid evaluations and contract awardt depend-
ing on the amount will he qubject to the Bank's prior approval.
8.         Disbursements under the agreement will be made by BANOBRAS, in
accordance with certificates issued by SEDUE and the Beneficiaries;
BANOBRAS may review final contract settlements proposed, before releasing
the completion payment and/or retention monies.
9.         A statement that technical decisions are the sole responsibility
of SEDUE, which shall however take into consideration the wishes and con-
cerns of the Beneficiary. BANOBRAS may however object to proposals if, in
its opinion, the Beneficiary cannot afford the additional financial nurden
which the proposals would entail.
10.       A schedule of estimated disbursements each quarter during project
implementation.



-85-
ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 3
11.        A schedule of estimated debt service obligations during the life
of the subsidiary loan.
12.        Provision for a guarantee by the State government of payment in
default of the Beneficiary; and that any necessary consents, approvals or
permits required for the project will be forthcoming, including decrees
relating to taxes and user changes. (Guarantee cost overruns?)
13.          An undertaking by the Beneficiary to implement institutional
and financial reforms recommended under (i) the subproject (Ii) the
national component (iiI) the proposed Municipal Strengthening Project,
including effecting accounting improvements and cost recovery for the solid
waste service; and that should it be necessary it will cooperate with, the
M.S. Project.
14.         An undertaking by the Beneficiary to provide any information
which may reasonably be requested in connection with the subproject or the
solid waste service, by BANOBRAS, SEDUE or the World Bank, and to allow
accredited representatives of these agencies access to sites, facilities,
and records relating to the subproject, and to have expenditures for the
subproject audited annually by an indenendent auditor acceptable to
BANOBRALS.
15.        An undertaking by the State government that if the solid waste
collection service ceases to be responsibility of the Beneficiary, all
duties and responsibilities of the latter under the sublending agreement
will be assumed by the Puccesser autbority.
16.        Guarantee of the Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico that
unpaid debt service will be a charge on participaciones payable to the Ben-
eficiary or State.
17.        Condition of disbursement: That the Beneficiary shall bave taken
any action with respect to taxes or revenues wbicb BANOBRAS requires, as a
result of its appraisal of the Beneficiary's financial condition and of the
fiscal Impact of the costs and debt service arising from the subproject;
provided that such a requirement shall be imposed only if it Is consistent
witb the policies established under the Municipal Strengthening Program.
OPTIONAL PROVISIONS
There is no objection to the inclusion of otber provisions, con-
sistent witb BANOBRAS' existing practice, covering the following matters:
(i)   Provision as to financing cost overruns.
(ii)   Imposltion of penalty interest for default.



-86-
ANNEX 15
Page 3 of 3
(lli)   Remedies where the Beneficiary is in default under other con-
tracts with BANOBRAS.
(iv)   The consecutive order in which payments made by the Beneficiary
are appropriate to its several liabilities (e.g. penalty inter-
est, outstanding principal, etc.).
(v)   Any revenues of the solid waste service to be reserved for the
use of that service, and payment of obligations under the onlend-
ing agreement.
(vi)   Conditions of effectiveness.
l



-87-
ANNEX 16
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
Selection and Design Criteria
1.        Selection criteria to be applied to all activities under both the
pilot and national components were agreed upon during project preparation.
For the pilot component, the criteria include: (a) the city and/or its
state government initially demonstrate their interest in participating in
the project through a letter of Interest to SEDUE or SHCP indicating tbat:
(i) the city is prepared to accept the conditions (particularly financing)
and to progressively adopt and act on applicable recommendations made under
the project, including those related to cost recovery; (11) land, If neces-
sary, is physically available and legally unencumbered; (ill) the state
government would provide support for land acquisition, counterpart financ-
Ing and operating budgets, if necessary; (iv) the city and state political
leaders would place high priority on project implementation; and (v) exist-
ing facilities and equipment would be made available; (b) the city Is geo-
graphically representative; (c) preliminary studies and plans have been
prepared for the city; (d) results from the subprojects would be applicable
to and replicable in other urban areas; (e) an opportunity would be pro-
vided to share facilities among cities; and (f) the Beneficiary would be
able to incur  the debt as evidenced by the results of the financial
appraisal using the methodology whicb would be presented in the Operating
Guidelines of FORTAMUN and is shown in Annex 21.
2.         The selection criteria for the national component include:  (a)
for the generic studies: (i) the topics to he studied provide a nationwide
overview of key issues and the resulting recommendations would be appli-
cable to a large number of cities; and (it) the studies would be relevant
to the pilot subprojects and would in turn utilize the data and fludings
from those projects and from the plan preparation and prefessibility stud-
ies; and (b) for the plan preparation and prefeasihility studies- (1) not
more than two municipalities or metropolitan areas from one state would be
included; (1i) the municipalities must be urban; and (iii) the municipal-
ities are important to the economic development of their states.



-88-
ANNEX 17
rage i or 2
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAG-EMENT PILOT PROJECT
Loan Disbursement Schedule (Standard Profile)
Bank Fiscal Year          Quarterly            Cumulative Dishursement
and Quarter Ending        Disbursement        --
(USS million)       (USS million)  (Z of total)
FY 1987
September  30, 1986            4.50*                4.50           18.0
December   31, 1986            0.30                 4.80           19.2
March       31, 1987            0.50                5.30           21.2
June       30, 1987             0.70                6.00           24.0
FY 1988
September  30, 1987             1.10                7.10          28.4
December   31, 1987             1.50                8.60           34.4
March      31, 1988             1.60               10.20           40.8
June       30, 1988             1.80               12.00           48.0
FY 1989
September  30, 1988             1.90               13.90           55.6
December   31, 1988            0.80                14.70           58.8
March      31, 1989             0.70               15.40           61.6
June       30, 1989            0.60                16.00           64.0
FY 1990
September  30, 1989            0.60                16.60          66.4
December   31, 1989             0.50               17.10          68.4
March      31, 1990             0.50               17.60           70.4
June       30, 1990            0.70                18.30          73.2
FT 1991
St- tember  30, 1990           0.70               19.00           76.0
December   31, 1990             0.66               19.66           78.6
March      31, 1991             0.64               20.30           81.2
June       30, 1991            0.62                20.92          83.7
FT 1992
September  30, 1991            0.60               21.52           86.1
December   31, 1991            0.40                21.92          87.7
March       31, 1992            0.39               22.31           89.2
June       30, 1992            0.39                22.70          90.8
nF 1993
September  30, 1992            0.38                23.08          92.3
December   31, 1992            0.32                23.40          93.6
March      31, 1993             0.30               23.70           94.8
June       30, 1993            0.29                23.99          96.0
P7 i194
September  30, 1993            0.28               24.27           97.1
December   31, 1993            0.26                24.53          98.1
March       31, 1994            0.24               24.77           99.1
June       30, 1994            0.23                25.00         100.0
* US$2.0 million disbursement for Special Account and US$2.5 million
retroactive financing from August 5, 1985; Special Account recovery assumed
starting in FY91.



-89-
ANNE% 17
Page 2 of 2
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT ENGINEERING PROJECT
Loan Disbursement Schedule (4 1/2 years)
Bank 2iscal Year          Quarterly            Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter Ending        Disbursement
(US$ million)       (USS million)  (2 of total)
FY 1987
September  30, 1986            5.50*               5.50           22.7
December   31, 1986            0.40                5.90           24.4
March      31, 1987            0.60                6.50           25.8
June       30, 1987            0.75                7.25           30.0
FY 1988
September  30, 1987            1.00                8.25           34.1
December   31, 1987            1.50                9.75           40.3
March      31, 1988             1.76              11.51           47.6
June       30, 1988            1.80               13.31           55.0
FY 1989
September  30, 1988            1.70               15.01           62.0
December   31, 1988             1.90              16.91           69.9
Ma,^h       31, 1989            1.74              18.65           77.1
June       30, 1989            1.73               20.38           84.2
FY 1990
September  30, 1989            1.90               22.28           92.1
December   31, 1989            0.72               23.00           95.0
March       31, 1990           0.50               23.50           97.1
June       30, 1990            0.40               23.90           98.8
FT 1991
September  30, 1990            0.30               24.20          100.0
* US$3.0 million disbursement for Special Account and US$2.5 million
retroactive financing from August 5, 1985; Special Account recovery assumed
in FY90.



-90-
ANNEX 18
rage 1 bf 1
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
Project Cost by Procurement Metbod a/
(US$ Millions)
Procurement Metbod                Total
Item                    ICB     LCB    Other      N.A.          Cost
Equipment, Spare Parts
and Materials               7.6     4.2 h/   -         -             11.8
(3.3)   (2.5)                             (5.8)
Civil Works                   5.1      7.2 h/   7.4 c/   -             19.7
(1.8)   (5.4)                             (7.2)
Consultants                    -        -      13.8 d/   -             13.8
(12.0)                  (12.0)
Counterpart Salaries
and Supplies                 -       -        -        4.7           4.7
TOTAL                        12.7    11.4      21.2       4.7          50.0
(5.1)   (7.9)   (12.0)                  (25.0)
a/ Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
h/ Includes Local Sbopping.
c/  Land and site acquisition by Beneficiaries tbrougb expropriation or as
provided for by local laws and minor preparation works.
d/ Mostly selected on the basis of proposals from short lists of
consultants. If master contract is entered into, ahout US$8.0 million
(represented by national component) will be covered.



MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMEN PILOT PROJECT
DGPCCA Organization Chat
Locaton of SEDUE Project Coordinaftng Unt
II.  H1
d Ecology
Genwatl feectorate od
Preyention & Control
od EnvMonmental
Pollution D  CA
Pr.oect Coardinaingtv
l 'chnilcal   LUnit (UC)                 A;;;;t
| Suwbunit         Mornoeu PoldesonalSuni
S_aff, SIot Staff
DIlectoate of                DMectorate of                      eitoratIe of
Stondar* & Vlnce                    S_ud                       Technical Suppt x
F-~ ~ ~  
| DdIrectoae of               SA adrtt d          *          Subdlrectorate d
QuaitIrwlro nabn    |        Technical coordination    |              s
SEDE's Resdnt State Delegdotons will pid wpaport to UC
as reeded & wUI fwn key Ink wtth beneficae
Wrd Bor*s-80168:3



-92-
ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 2
MEXICO
SOUD WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
OrganIzatIon Chart for Execution of Monteney Mehopoltan Ala Plbto
Subcormponent
ESrADO DE
NJM LEON
It4IWKIPALIP                  El
AREA
UEIROPOUANA
SECRAw DE
DESAROXOURANO
DEL5WO ~ ~ ADEWNENB
I  oa~rn
PROVECTO6 PROT
PRCIV. -Ar  PROY. IrPROY.C-
Wodld B3 i-3018&1



-93-
ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAUEMENT PILOT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for SEDUE Project Coordinating Unit
Background
1.        The Project Coordinating Unit (UC) established (October 21, 1985)
at SEDUE for the duration of the World Bank-financed Solid Uas-e Management
Pilot Project is organizationally linked directly to the Office of the Di-
rector General for the Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamina-
tion (DG.PCCA).
2.        The UC will be staffed, with personnel drawn from DGPCCA and DRS,
as follows:
Project Coordinator (Economist/Administrator)*              1
Deputy Project Coordinator (Engineer)*                      1
Engineers*                                                  2
Engineer**                                                  1
Planner/Arquitect*                                          I
Arquitect*                                                  1
Administrator/Economist**                                   1
Public Accountant**                                         1
Lawyer/Administrator**                                      1
Bilingual Secretary***                                      1
Administrative Assistant**                                  1
Secretary/Staff Assistant**                                 I
Driver/Messenger***                                         1
*Already appointed (Letter dated October 21, 1985).
**Appointed (Letter dated February 11, 1986).
***To be appointed.
These personnel will be assigned to UC on a full-time basis throughout the
implementation of the project.
3.       The UC will be assslated and strengthened over at least a four-year
period by five specialized long-term consultants to he contracted under the
technical assistance provision of the project's national component.   The
terms of reference for the consultants are in Annex 4.



-94-
ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 3
Scope 1/
4.       UC will undertake the following responsibilities:
(a) overall project coordination including final decisions on all
technical matters;
(b) carrying out the national component of the project with the
exception of the financial and accounting studies which will
be carried out by BANOBRAS, unless BANOBRAS otherwise agrees;
(c) arrange and fol'low-up preparation of designs, review designs,
and develop, in collaboration with the Beneficiary Municipal-
ities, technical requirements for equipment and civil works
under the project;
Cd) as necessary, furtber detailing of terms of reference for
studies and technical assistance under the project;
(e) preparing bidding documents and advertisements for the na-
tional component, and in collaboration with the Beneficiar-
ies, those for the pilot subprojects;
(f) participate in the bid evaluation and qualification commit-
tee;
(g) ensuring that Bank guidelines with respect to bidding and
contracting are understood by the Beneficiaries;
(h)  assisting the Beneficiaries as necessary with the executioa
of the pilot component;
(i) monitoring, and supervising in collaboration with the Bene-
ficiaries and BANOBRAS, the pilot subprojects;
(j)  ensuring  that proper accounting  is  made of all project-
related expenditures;
(k) progress reporting under the project;
(1) arranging training and seminars and special technical assist-
ance for the Beneficiary municipalities' staff and authori-
ties;
1/  IC's tasks have been extensively described in the project documents.
The scope can be adjusted as events warrant as long as the proposed adjust-
ments do not prejudice satisfactory implementation of the project.   UC
could undertake other mutually agreed tasks as reflected in subloan agree-
ments.



-95-
ANNEX 20
Page 3 of 3
(a) assisting Beneficiaries implement recommendations under the
project; and
(n)   developinig, systematizing, promoting and disseminating the
techniques and technologies used under the project.
5.       UC will ensure the full involvement in aud awareness of all activ-
ities uudertaken under the project iu its entirety by the Beneficiaries'
project coordinators and SEDUE's resident state delegations. UC will also
be responsible for ensuring that the Beneficiaries are provided day-to-day
support iu their respective project acativities by SEDUE's resident state
delegations.



-96-
ANNEX 21
Page 1 of 3
1MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MNAGEMDENT PILOT PROJECT
Metbodology for Financial Appraisal of Beneficiaries
1. *The concept that it is possible to qnantify the capacity of a
municipal government to Incur incremental long-term debt has to be
approached with caution. Even in the case of sopbisticated municipal gov-
ernments with advanced accounting systems, the question is somewbat conjec-
tural, since it depends to a considerable degree on political and social
considerations.
2.         In the case of Mexican municipalities, the concept becomes even
more nebulous. Most have only primitive casb accounting systems, manually
maintained, under wbicb expenses are classified only under a few broad
headings as follows:
Administrative Expenses
Public Works
Transfers to Other Agencies
Loans
Little information is usually available on the cost of individual services,
nor is a distinction maintained between capital and recurrent costs.
3.  ,-    Similarly, revenues are classified under a limited group of cate-
gories, as follows:
-Participaciones' (Federal revenue-sbaring)
Aprovechamientos" (Specific grants)
Taxes (e.g. property tax)
Fees, Licenses and Other Receipts
User Charges
Loans
In recent years, loans have represented a -very small percentage (less than
5%, 1977-82) of total resources.
4.          In these circumstances, it must be accepted that any bard-and-
fast system of calculation of indebtedness capacity is impracticable. For
the purposes of this project, the approacb set out below represents the
most feasible available.



-97-
ANNEX 21
Page 2 of 3
5.         Under recent constitutional amendments to promote decentraliza-
tion of authority, the municipalities will bave increasing autonomy and
scope for action In the reals of taxation and user charges. These include
the authority over, and adainistration of, property taxes and water and
sever cbarges. In addition, the receipts from participaciones (whicb are
not earmarked to any specific service or activity and therefore represent a
resource to be used as the municipality nay elect) have abown an upward
trend. During 1977-82, they grew from 19% of municipal revenues to 35%,
and under new revenue-sbaring criteria Introduced in 1984, are expected to
increase further.
6.         By consultation with Federal financial authorities, the National
Center for Municipal Studies, and the State government in question, BANO-
BRAS will be in a position to make reasonably firm projections of the
likely receipts a municipality may expect from this source. In consulta-
tion with the municipality itself, BANOBRAS will also be able to establisb
projections of otber revenues and of running expenditure (including debt
service) for services as at present operated, taking into account predic-
table changes in the level of service, but witbout assuming any economies
aebievable by improved cost control.
7.         With these projections, and the incorporation of existing casb
surpluses, it will be possible to estimate a financial balance for the
municipality over, say, the ensuing five years, on a -witbout-the-project-
basis.
8.         Under the Municipal Strengthening Project processed in parallel
with this project, more refined techniques for estimating the financial
capacity of municipalities are being investigated, including the use of
trend Ulnes and the elaboration of a Municipal Revenue Po':ential Model. As
these are developed and perfected, they will be applied to the sub-projects
in the solid waste sector.
9.         The debt service and anticipated Increases in operating expenses
attributable to the proposed sub-project (including periodic renewal of
equipment) will be projected and compared with the estimates of available
resources calculated in the manner described above. If a sbortfall is dis-
closed, this may be only transitional or It may be continuous. If tempo-
rary, It may be possible to adjust the repayment terms or the grace period
to accoumodate any casb flow deficiencies.  If, however, a long-term defi-
cit is apparent, BANOBRAS will request the municipality to indicate bow it
proposes to meet the deficit.
10.        If the response is that specific increases in taxes or charges
will be imposed, BANOBRAS may require the implementation of sucb an
increase as a condition of disbursement, provided such a requirement is
consistent with the policies establisbed under the Municlual Strengtbhenng
Pregran. However, in practice this safeguard may not always be feasible;



-98-
ANNEX 21
Page 3 of 3
the pilot sub-projects proposed bave been selected partly on the basis of
their demonstrative qualities, so that BANOBRAS' leverage in this connec-
tion may be limited.
11.      To this extent, the methodology proposed is admittedly imperfect.
Nevertbeless, the risks of default by the mmnicipality will be covered, on
the one band by State government guarantees, and on the otber by the fact
that BANOBRAS will bave a lien on the municipal revenues from participa-
ciones. Since recourse to the latter remedy implies a reduction in the
financial resources available to the manicipality for its otber services, a
responsible municipal government will seek to avoid it by taking other
steps to meet its obligations.



-99-
ANNEX 22
Page 1 of 7
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
BANOBRAS FINANCES, ACTIVITIES AND FUTURE ORIENTATION
Background and Constitution
1.          BANOBRAS is the acronym of Banco Nacional de Obras y Servi cios
Publicos (National Bank for Public Works and Services). It was established
in 1933 as a National Urban Mortgage and Public Works Bank, but in the in-
tervening years, its constitution and activities bave been modified from
tiue to time. BANOBRAS' most recent Organic Law was enacted in 1980, but a
decree of July 1985 specifies a number of changesq in its constitution and
field of action (paras. 17-18 below).
2.         RANOBRAS' capital was fixed under the 1980 Organic Law at 5 bil-
lion pesos (increased in 1984 to 10 billion), divided into four categories;
Series A, which must represent at least 51Z of capital, held by the Federal
Government; Series B, bearer bonds for subscription by the public; and Ser-
ies C and D (less than IOZ of total capital), available respectively to
Federal government agencies and local authorities (States and municipali-
ties, together with the Federal District). The C and D series cannot be
transferred or pledged without BANOBRAS' approval. Under the 1985 Decree,
however, only two categories of shares are contemplated, Series A (66%) and
Series B (34%).
3.          Under the 1980 Law, BANOBRAS was managed by a board of eigbt
directors, two from each group of stockbolders, with the Secretary of the
Treasury as president. The Federal Government, acting through the Treasury
Secretary, has the right of veto over board decisions or stockholders' res-
olutions if it considers these inconsistent with government financial and
monetary policy.
Activities
4.         BANOBRAS operates under the general provisions of the Regulatory
Law for Public Service Banking and Credit. Under its 1980 Organic Law, its
authorized fields of activity comprise mainly the financing of services in
the public sector, especially urban infrastructure in areas of urban, tour-
ist, port and bousing development (including low income bousing) and trans-
portation by sea, river, air and land. It can act as a financial agent or
technical adviser to the Federal Government, the Federal District, states
and municipalities in planning, financing and executing works and services
of a public or social nature. BANOBRAS is authorized to guarantee securi-
ties issued by other public authorities, and issue guarantees to Mexican
companies carrying out public works projects abroad, in order to stimulate
the export of tecbnology; and to carry out ell the activities of a commer-
cial bank.



-100-
ANNEX 22
Page 2 of 7
5.        BANOBRAS is empowered to contract directly for external loans and
credits, as well as for local credit instruments, and the only security
required is a deposit with the Central Bank equal to 4Z of the value of
fixed-term securities issued. Loans advanced by BANOBRAS may be secured on
real estate, casb reserves and revenue resources of the public service con-
cerned; but in the case of loans to state and municipal agencies. BANOBRAS
is also required to carry out appraisals to satisfy itself that the obliga-
tions under the credit can be met witbout prejudice to other services of
the borrower.   BANOBRAS may not make loans to non-residents, or for
purposes not autborized by its Organic Law, nor may it Invest in companies
witb unlimited liability.
6.          The table belov shows the sources of funds raised by BANOBRAS
during 1982-84, all expressed in constant 1984 pesos, to eliminate the
effect of local Inflation. The figures sbow clearly the down-turn after
1982 as a result of the Federal Government's austerity program, and an in-
creased recourse to bond issues, to compensate in part for the reduction in
loans and loan repayments. Part of BANOBRAS' external debt was restruc-
tured in 1983.  As part of this restructuring, the Federal Government
assumed all exchange risk liabilities. A formal agreement was also reached
in late 1983 by whicb the Federal Government guarantees all loans from
BANOBRAS to state-owned institutions.
Table 1
BANOBRAS - Sources of Funds 1982-84 (billions of constant 1984 pesos)
1982       1983       1984
Loans                                   314.6       76.5        46.4
Loan Repayments                         198.6        55.4       65.0
Bond Issues                              15.6       24.2        40.7
Net Checking and Savings Deposits         3.2         3.3       14.9
Profits and Equity Increases              6.7        16.8       33.7
538.7      176.2      200.7
7.          BANOBRAS prepares annually a 5-year lending program, which is
submitted for approval by the Federal rGovernment and if necessary adjusted
in the light of the latter's investment policies and priorities under the
National Development Plan.
Financial Performance
8.        The table below shows BANOBRAS' balance sheets and income state-
ments, 1982-84, in current pesos.  BANOBRAS made a modest surplus in eacb
of these years, rising to 4.7 billion pesos in 1984, out of wbich 1.0
billion was paid as dividend (10X on the nominal value of stock).
BANOBRAS' accounts are audited annually by recognized external auditors,
wbose reports are made available to the World Bank.



-101-
ANNEX 22
Page 3 of 7
Table 2
A - BANOBRAS - Summary Balance Sheets 1982-84 (Audited)
(Billions of Pesos)
ASSETS                                      1982         1983        1984
Central Bank deposits                 5.0           7.6         17.1
Otber Bank & Cash Balances            2.0           1.7          4.9
Securities and Term Deposits         11.8          22.2        39.7
Loans                               524.5         940.3      1,309.3
Accounts Receivable, Real Estate
& Other Balances                     45.3          77.2        85.9
588.6      1,049.0      1,456.9
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Deposits, Short Term Liabilities
and Accruals                         68.0         137.6        127.6
Debt-Federal Govt. & Agencies       126.6         125.5        220.4
-Mortgage Bonds and Other
Term Liabillties                63.4         102.4       146.5
-Banks                          320.5         671.8       939.3
578.5      1,037.3      1,433.8
Equity - Capital                       5.0          5.0         10.0
- Reserves & Retained
Earnings                     5.1           6.7        13.1
10.1         11.7         23.1
588.6      1,049.0      1,456.9
B -BANOBRAS - Summary Income Statements 1982-84 (Audited)
(Billions .f Pesos)
Interest, Dividends & Commissions           84.1        150.1        173.5
Other Income (net)                           0.8          2.4          0.9
84.9        152.5        174.4
LESS:  Interest ant: Commissions Paid       76.5        139.5        154.9
Operating Expenses                   7.3           9.6         12.2
Taxes and Employee Proflt
Sharing                              0.5           2.0         2.6
84.3        151.1        169.7
- Net Earnings                               0.6          1.4          4.7



-102-          ANNEX 22
Page 4 of 7
Lending to Local Governments
9.        BANOBRAS makes advances to states and municipalities and/or their
agencies tbrough several "windows' or lines of credit, as follows:
FIFAPA  (Fondo de Inversiones Financieras para Agus Potable y
Alcantarillado - Water Supply and Sewerage- Investment
Fund). This fund, the resources of which can be lent
only to municipal or stata water companies, operates as a
national program primarily directed at medium-sized
cities, bas hitherto lent to cities over 100,000
population (excluding the three largest cities of Mexico
City, Guadalajara and Monterrey). It has been supported
by three Bank Loans (1186-ME, 1913-ME, and 2281-ME),
totalling US$265.3 million.   The latter two are active
currently.
PACDU   (Programa de Accion Concentrada para el Desarrollo Urbano
de la Zona Coatera del Colfo e Istmo de Tebuantepec -
Concerted Action Program for Urban Development in four
Gulf States), intended for a variety of urban infrastruc-
ture investments, in support of which Bank Loan 1990-HE
(US$164 million) was approved.
FOMUN   (Fondo Fiduciario Federal de Fomento Municipal - Federal
Trust Fund for Municipal Promotion) is anotber national
program for general urban development, intended mainly
for smaller municipalities and supported by two loans
from the Inter-American Development Bank, totalling US$80
million.
BANOBRAS' own urban development program, available to any size or
type of municipality.   However,  the relatively high interest
rates applied bave resulted in its loans having been mainly
concentrated in the three largest cities.
10.          The current cost of loan funds in Mexico is about 57Z but
BANOBRAS lends at lower rates depending on the fund and purpose (tbus,
water supply loans may be at 10X under FOMUN, but 25X under FIFAPA; under
BANOBRAS' own program, the average is also about 25%).
II.       The table below shows the distribution of BANOBRAS lending 1982-
84, all expressed in constant 1984 pesos.  It again mirrors the downturn
after 1982, especially in loans to federal agencies. Loans to states and
municipalities decreased in real terms but increased as a proportion of to-
tal lending; loans for water supply and sewerage, however, show a sharp in-
crease in 1984 and this trend may accelerate as a result of the decentrali-
zation of responsibility for this service.



-103-          ANNEX 22
Page 5 of 7
Table 3
BANOBRAS Credits 1982-84
(Billlons of Constant 1984 Pesos)
A - Distribution of Credits
1982      1983      1984
Federal Covernment and Agencies                 206.1      63.7      39.2
and Municipalities (excluding credits
under People's Housing Fund)                 47.4       22.9      29.8
Otber                                            69.2      37.8      58.1
322.7     124.4     127.1
B - Purpose of Credits to States & Municipalities
Water & Sanitation                                7.5       6.7       17.1
Markets                                           1.4       0.5        2.3
Slaughterbouses                                   0.5       041       0.2
Electrification                                             0.1       0.4
Paving and Urbanization                           6.4       3.7       3.3
Transportation                                    -         -         2.8
Housing                                           0.8       0.3        1.7
Other Services                                   30.8      11.3       2.0
47.4      22.9      29.8
Financed from:
FIFAPA                                  4.5       3.3        7.5
PACDU                                   0.5       3.7        3.5
FONUN                                   1.9       0.7        1.3
BANOBRAS' own program                  40.5       15.2      17.5
47.4      22.9      29.8
12.       The total of credits authorized in 1984 was 55.6 billion pesos of
which nearly two-thirds was for water supply and sanitation (33.2 billion
pesos).
Otber Activities in Collaboration witb World Bank
13.       BANOBRAS has been the channel for investment of World Bank loans
in a number of projects, other than those mentioned above.   In all,
BANOBRAS bas acted as financial intermediary in ten Bank projects. Total
loans approved to date for BANOBRAS amount to some US$1,225 million, of
whicb about US$450 million has been disbursed. With the exception of the
FIPAPA Loans wbose beneficiaries are water companies most of which are



-104-
ANNEX 22
Page 6 of 7
selected and committed in the course of project preparation, BANOBRAS has
had difficulty in municipal sector loans (for example, 1990) ia generating
interest in the programs. Although a variety of circumstances may account
for this, two factors seem to dominate-the lack of promotion of the loan
program and the complexity of the application process.
14.        BANOBRAS histe.ically has not been a major lender to municipali-
ties.   It is unaccustomed to promoting municipal-related loan programs;
ratber, it has adopted a ratber passive role in the municipal sector, pro-
viding information to municipalities about possible loan programs and their
terms and conditions.
15.         BANOBRAS' major loan programs to municipalities to this point
have presented a confusing array of interest rates and terms. As noted in
paragraph 10, loans for the same purpose (water supply) may vary from 10X
annual interest to 25% annual interest for FOMUN and FIFAPA, respectively.
Overall, the lowest interest rate is in the PACDU program (3% to 5%) for
production activities witb the FIFAPA water loans at the highest. Where
more than one program is available to support a particular municipal re-
quest, there has been no policy for determining whicb program to select.
16.           Finally, the processing time in BANOBRAS' various programs
(excluding FIFAPA) has been a decided deterrent to murlIcipal borrowing.
The average time taken from the initial application to final approval has
been 10 months, and from up to 24 months before the first installmeuc is
released. Corrective actions in each of these areas are necessary to get
BANOBRAS' municipal loans on an effective track.  These are discussed in
paragraph 20 below.
Future Orientation of BANOBRAS' Operations
17.        The government decree issued in July 1985 amends the status of
BANOBRAS from a -Sociedad Anonima (limited liability company) to a 'Socie-
dad Nacional de Credito, Institucion de Banca de Desarrollo' (National
Credit Institution and Development Bank) as from August 1, 1985. A new
Organic Law is under preparation, to give effect to the change in orienta-
tion of EANOBRAS' activities implied in the new status.
18.         The intentions behind the new legislation reflect the govern-
ment's desire to reshape financial institutions for the more effective imr-
plementation of its National Program of Development Finance 1984-88; under
this program, the federal authorities intend Mexican financial institutions
to focus their activities on modernizing and reinforcing the basic infra-
structure, in order to maximize productivity.
19.       In pursuance of this policy, BANOBRAS will become a multipurpose
development bank, initiating and preparing projects itself (including the
necessary studies).  At present, BANOBRAS is only partially involved in
appraisal and supervision of investment projects.   It will in future be
able to issue bonds specifically ear-marked to individual sectors or pur-
poses, and generally increase the volume of credit available to states and
municipalities. In this way, it is hoped to overcome the deficiencies of
these authorities in infrastructure and urban equipment, bousing and trans-



-105-
ANNEX 22
Page 7 of 7
port. As part of the change of direction, BANOBRAS Is likely to gradually
divest itself of commercial banking activities.
20.        Recognizing the limitations of its current programs for states
End municipalities, BANOBRAS has undertaken a complete review of its
rarious windows, their terms and conditions, and its program of stimulating
municipal development. A preliminary proposal has been prepared, in draft
form (not yet reviewed), to revise the interest rate structure, the maximum
amouvt of any particular project that can he financed, and the repayment
terms. Four categories of project types, five city types, and two to tbree
urban-rural classifications within each city type have been suggested as
the categories for determining interest rates.   This unfortunately would
lead to a complex administrative program since there would he as many as 52
different interest rates.   In addition,  25 different repayment periods
would apply, depending on type of loan and type of municipality.
21.       For BANOBRAS' state and municipal programs to be successful, con-
siderable simplification of the structure (interest, terms) is necessary.
In addition, a program for simplifying the processing time and for pro-
moting municipal borrowing for capital investments is needed to get the en-
tire program moving. Finally, BANOBRAS should be encouraged to renegotiate
its most of its state and municipal portfolio financed by IBRD, IDB and
otber agencies to develop a consistent structure and policy.
22.        There is little doubt that BANOBRAS bas the potential to carry
out the mandate conferred on it, and equally little doubt that it has
operated successfully in the past. The new responsibilities, however, will
demand an even more dynamic approach to preparing, evaluating and super-
vising sing investment projects, without which there would be a risk that
BANOBRAS might relapse into a mere passive channel for funds. Its manage-
ment, therefore, supported by the Federal Finance Ministry, intends to
revise the staff structure to permit increased activity In, and improved
capacity to offer, technical assistance in support of the government's
policies of decentralization and social development.



-106-
AME3 21
Page 1 of I
MElCO
SOITD WASTE MANACEMENT PILOT PROJECT
Monitoring 1Idicators
The task targets fhown below are hased on a critical path study completed prior to appraisal. The study took into
account -hefore execution  costs and  after execurion- costs and heneflit.
Number of Tasks
Year:       1986   19R7   198R  tqq9  1990   1991   19Q2   1991
Component/Subcomponent                       Semester       1T2   1 2   1 2   1 2  1 2   1  2   1 2   1  2  Total
National Component
Technical assistance to UC
Finalize TOR and advertise for bid                            2                                                           2
Complete contracting                                          1  1                                                        2
Complete assignment                                                                                  2                    2
Cenric and Problem Definition Studies
Finalize TOR and advertise for bid                               9                                                        9
Complete contracting                                                 1                                                    9
Complete studies                                                         1   2  1      1     1       1      1      1      9
Project Preparation
Finalze TOR and advertise for bid                                            1                                            I
Complete contracting                                                            I                                         I
Complete feasiblity studies                                                         1                                     I
Pilot Component
Complete contracting for consultants                             2   &                                                    9
Procure equipment                                                        2   A 1                                          9
Complete civil works                                                         2&   1                                       9
Operate facilitles                                                              2   R  4                                  9
Complete analysi  and documencation                                             2   2 1  2                                q
Complete operating assistance                                                       2  4  1                               9



-107-
ANNEX 24
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
1. MEXICO:   Water Supply and Wastes Sector Study-Main Report and
Annexes, IBRD No. 4840a-ME, 4/27/84.
2.  MEXICO:    Municipal  Strengtbening  Project-Phase  I  (SAR-White
Cover), October 1985.
3.  Fortalecimiento  del  Federalismo-Entrega  de  Sistemas  de  Agua
Potable y Alcantarillado, SAHOP, 5 Feb. 1982.
4.  Primera Reunion con Presidentes Municipales Sobre Desecbos Solidos
y Aguas Residuales; Presidencia de la Republica, Coordinacion de
Proyectos de Desarrollo (CPD), 14-15 Julio, 1982.
5.  Plan Regidor para Aguas Residuales-Anexo E-Actualizacion Juri-
dica: CPD, 1982.
6. Medio Ambiente, Numero 1, Marzo 1982; Ciencias Urbanas.
7. Resource Recovery from Municipal Solid Wastes, A State-of-the-Art
Review, TWD, World Bank, 6/30/8 .
8. Disease Transmission from Refuse Management in Developing Coun-
tries, Unpublished Drift, S. Cointreau, 5/84.
9.  Guia Tecnica Para La Elaboracion de Un Proyecto Ejecutivo para el
Control de los Residuos Solidos Industriales, Peligrosos y Poten-
cialmente Peligrosos, DGPCCA, SEDUE, 12/83.
10. Evaluation of Salid Waste Projects, Public Utilities Dept., World
Bank, 6/4/75.
11. Private and Public Alternatives for Providing Water Supply, Sewer-
age, and Other Municipal Services, Unpublished Draft, D. Coyaud,
6/11/85.
12. Reglamento Para la Prevencion y Control de la Contaminacion Ambien-
tal Originada Por los Residuos Solidos y- Peligrosos y Potencial-
mente Peligrosos, SEDUE, January 1986.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1. Proyectos Demonstrativos para el Manejo de Residuos Solidos Munici-
pales e Industriales, SEDUE, Mexico, D.F., Julio-85.
2. Potential Solid Waste Management Project, Preidentification Mission
Field Report, S. Cointreau, Consultant, 5/23/84.



-108-
ANNEX 24
Page 2 of 2
3. Potential Solid Waste Management Project, Preidentification Mission
Back-to-Office Report, S. Cointreau, 6/15/84.
l
4. Mexico Solid Waste Management Engineering Project, Mission Back-
to-Office Mermorandum, S. Cointreau, 9/15/84.
5. Proyecto Para Recoleccion de Desechos Solidos en el Area Metropoli-
tana de Monterrey, Julio de 1985.
6. Diagnostic Study of Solid Waste Management in the Monterrey Metro-
politan Area, Field Report, S. Cointreau to E. Torres, 7/16/85.
7. Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A., Diario Oficial,
12 de Julio, 1985.
8. Documentacion Relativa Al Proyecto de Ingenieria Propuesto para el
Manejo de los Residuos Solidos (includes letters from Beneficiary
Municipalities, formalization of project coordinating unit at SEDtIE
and Reglamento Interior de SEDUE), SEDTJE, 10/21/85.
9. Proyecto de Ingenieria Sobre el Mane-o de Reslduos Solidos
(includes local and foreign costs, information of Project Coor-
dinating Unit, SEDUE organigrams, etc.), SEDUE, January 1986.
10. Proyectos Sobre el Manejo de Residuos Solidos-Empresas Consul-
toras-, SEDllE, January 1986.
11. Perfil de Terminos de Referencia Proyectos Sobre el Manejo de
Residuos Solidos (contains TORs for pilot subprojects), SEDUE,
January 1986.
C. Working Papers and Worksheets
1. Worksheets on project cost estimates, 5/85.                           r
2. Worksheets on procurements and allocation of loan proceeds, 10/85.
3. Notes on operational performance, health and environment, risks and
impacts, 10/85.
4. Notes and sketches on alternatives for funds flow, 4/85.
5. Working papers and worksheets on the Project, calculations, assump-
tions for cost estimates, costing, execution schedules, 10/85.
6. Notes by BANOBRAS on Finances, Future Orientation, 7/85.
7. Mission Notes on Paragrapbs  for Possible Use In Issues Papers
(Project/Program Rationale, Benefits, Risks, Impacts), 8/1/85.



UNITED   STATES   OF   AMERICA
'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ "~ -'  A   A Faj,N 4-i ?  eli- 
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..                                                ,   4S1'\ \
>0\~~4. '                  5                                                                   & A  o 
-           t _, A f ! ,2BIA    5             \ uf                                                    ' -5,.
10  0<t--. IVA=-
Cil
- t - XL ' \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                d      ,         5ANI It )/
:                        (                     BX                    Y/Ai~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Au
PA C/f!                   f'                                                           a
-2W                                                  4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Co            Ai -  Ua         r -
KILMETRS    -             B-  ?wlj 3     SW     n
z *ie  !   !  f          S~~~~~~iA ;- F1_
'                                                                       FILES0  tiO  20  0
Oz.J. .s WU-
lb'~~Cli8(                                           n_



IBRD 19423
ko~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
AMER ICA                                                                        MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
CITIES IN PILOT COMPONENT
rr~~~~~~~ ~~,                                                           - - ,
-    % ~ ~~~~~~~-
9bd... N                             -                            Merida Project Cities
la   Notional capitol
ai"_              o- _                                      <\Store capitals
{ A I'   - A i'.       k                                                           o0  Principal cities or towns
nsiewoLare\              il                     _                       Divided highways
-  Selected moin roads
Railroads
N                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
A    Principal airports
.--  - Stote boundaries
--   .Internotional boundaries
1~~~~~~~~~~~~L
XZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                           -   A d 
S                                                                                  x
JAC,A
"''CI-~ni^4a Lu_, i   Olpc
1L20.-
.->:-  r -    - 0  ~  '.    - - -  Pe E L/ ~            >          /    GUATCompecMe
AA        MQoao                                                                                   UINAN
Ia = . - ~     Vracruz
Tolc  *                C toba
-     Mh  Pf .'  -V    'h'tt  niai o                                                                               
r                                         AAASCO;
-- ~~i~V.lIoherwnBELIZ
ATuxtla Gui.errez   * 
P"rft E  ~~N                             7     GUATEMALA    , 
Taochl      ~                     HONDURAS
JANUARY 1I66



IBRD 19424
N. '  '+,                                     MEXICO
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
COAHUILA                                                                             PILOT PROJECT
'  ,-         /tA MONTERREY METROPOUTAN AREA
ApojoA.   Project municipalities
-    Selected main roods
--i -                                                      .  .'  .  Railroods
-27L zu/iaza                                9       /                                           Rivers                              2r
,     State capitals
ToMonda          /  ,                                           U      Mu A;Nnicipalities
Stobe boundaries
Intenmational boundaries
/ \   i  ;        ji.                , -~                     n26
\1        -1 -  ..~jnw' -j-                               .1   \
0     20    AP    60       oO
Mnternoelos                                                  Kilomeftn
98*
-25  ()               \                           '         Poto              25 . "'                      _ \1_>J,f' 5
To Tompca, ~ ~ ~    ~    GeeilEiabd
\               )       X                 i   '__-__                      d_I_ * , ,0/. 
ZACAJ'  -.            '-.                                                                         Snto ,
i   )    ~     ToM0rexicoOty                     \\,
,'                t           X                                              _,          UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
| SAN HiSlS
POTOSZ         _ I                                                                                 -~             -      
0.                                              *->, .C                                             o_r%\
.-.--.--.--.                        ~~~~~~Monte-".L
j                                                                                 -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GalFf O
I I __.~~~~~ ..... _.,_ ",, ; ~~~~~~~~~NUEVO                                         '    ! .MaszCo
I MEXICO
Ta son Luis                     _-                             Pc    Ocan           '     '-aT
101-   Pains  1011                                 99U                                                       WM
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*UR i _ 






