Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1855 
Operation Name 
PROGRAMMATIC REFORM FOR GROWTH III 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General public administration sector (35%);Sub-national 
government administration (35%);General industry and trade 
sector (30%) 
Project ID 
P089826 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
September 27, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 1, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 8, 2005 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
The Decentralization and Competitiveness Development Policy Loan III (DCDPL III) is the third and 
last of a series of programmatic development policy loans supporti
ng Peru’s reform agenda.  The new 
Administration that took office in 2002 made decentralization and competitiveness two key priorities to 
secure sustainable and broad-based growth and alleviate poverty.  The Toledo government started 
programs in those two areas in 2002, which the World Bank was asked to support through programmatic 
loans. 
The main achievements of the program have been to preserve fiscal discipline while progressing with 
the decentralization agenda, and to promote increased competitiveness at the national and regional level.  
Critical laws were passed to create regional governments, facilitate fiscally sound decentralization, 
secure fiscal responsibility and transparency at the sub-national level, strengthen local government’s 
capacity for revenue collection, establish accreditation criteria for function and responsibilities 
devolution, introduce participatory local budgeting and initiate public sector reform to accommodate to 
the demands of a newly decentralized setting.  Budget allocations have changed, reflecting the advances 
with decentralization.  Sub-national governments were assigned 35 percent of non-financial 
expenditures in the 2006 draft budget, up from 28 percent of total 2003 budget.  Similarly, sub-national 
governments are playing a more important role in public investment.  The 2006 budget allocates more 
than half of public investment resources to sub-national governments, compared to only 20 percent in 
2003. 
In parallel, the Government undertook significant legal, institutional and administrative initiatives to 
enhance competitiveness.  These include new laws to modernize the port sector, and to facilitate science 
and technological development,  a national competitiveness plan and the creation of the institution to 
implement it,  measures to reduce administrative barriers and ensure contract enforcement, programs to 
facilitate exports and to link SMEs to supply chains, policies and actions  to support infrastructure 
development and reduced logistics costs - particularly at the regional level – and the creation of 
multiregional competitiveness offices and centers for technological innovation. Most of those measures 
have had a strong regional focus. Taken as a whole, these reforms are changing how Peru’s public sector 
operates and improving opportunities and incentives for private sector development.  
These reforms have supported economic growth and, albeit with a lagged effect, employment creation 
and poverty alleviation.  Growth has remained strong and steady since 2002, averaging 4.8 percent per 
year during the period 2002-05.  The strong export performance has continued in 2005 and is expected 
Page  2
to increase by 35 percent.  This export growth is fueled not only by traditional commodities, but also by 
a
rapidly-increasing non-traditional export sector, which grew 33 percent in 2004 and another 29 percent 
in the first half of 2005. The latest upswing in domestic demand has been supported by strong growth in 
private investment, up 14 percent in real terms during the first half of 2005.  At the same time fiscal 
discipline has remained a constant, in spite of the spending pressures that have naturally arisen during 
decentralization.  The fiscal deficit is under control at around 1 percent of GDP.  Compared to the 
country’s history of low and erratic growth, the economy’s performance during the last four years is a 
major accomplishment.   
The gains from a fiscally-sound decentralization and enhanced competitiveness are becoming evident 
not only in the macroeconomic numbers, but also in the lives of ordinary Peruvians, especially the 
poorest.  The largest impact on poverty reduction has been felt in the extreme poor group of households, 
in particular for those from rural areas.  Between 2001 and 2004, extreme poverty fell 18 percent 
nationwide and 24 percent in the rural areas.  Economic growth in the regions has outpaced growth in 
Lima, a trend that should help close the large income gap between Lima and the rest of the country.  
Employment growth is accelerating, particularly in provinces.  Urban employment has increased by 7 
percent in the provinces other than Lima during the first half of 2005, while nationwide employment 
increased by 5 percent.  The number of exporting SMEs has increased by 30 percent and most of them 
are in the regions. Moreover, during the period, near 10 percent of small enterprises grew into medium 
or large enterprises. Thus not only is growth becoming increasingly pro-poor, but it is also being felt in 
rural areas outside of Lima and other traditional economic centers.  While this cannot be attributed 
solely to the DCDPL program, these twin effects are exactly what the loans are promoting.  This 
sustainable and broad-based nature of Peru’s growth offers an opportunity to further alleviate poverty.   
The GoP has asked the Bank to increase the amount of the DCDPL III loan, and to continue supporting 
their reform agenda during 2006 with a new operation emphasizing public sector reform.  The team has 
evaluated the program’s progress and the authorities’ commitment to continuing implementing its 
widespread and integrated programs as well as the laudable overall economic results posted by Peru, and 
proposes that the financing amount for this operation be increased from the US$100 million planned in 
the CAS PR discussed by the Bank Board (November 2004) to $150 million.  This proposed increase 
fits within the total lending envelope envisaged under the high CAS lending scenario presented in the 
CAS PR.  Moreover, the proposed amount does not pose credit risks as the projected levels IBRD 
exposure and debt service obligations to IBRD and other creditors remain within the standards 
recommended by the Bank.  The Bank will consider the request for a follow-up policy-based operation, 
under the umbrella of the new CAS to be presented to the Bank Board in FY07.  A series of policy notes 
planned for 2006 will help with the design of this operation and will serve as an important tool during 
the transition to help sustain policy continuity.  The Bank’s team has already started consultations with 
both civil society and members of different political parties with the purpose of defining the priority 
areas of social and economic development to be included in these policy notes. 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The proposed loan is closely tailored to key Government objectives in decentralization and 
competitiveness.  The Government’s overall decentralization program is comprehensive and includes 
many areas for action.  The aims of the program are threefold: (i) protect fiscal sustainability during 
Peru's transition to a more decentralized state; (ii) enhance expenditure efficiency and assist in the 
strengthening of management and fiscal capacity at regional and local levels for the progressive 
assumption of service responsibilities; and (iii) support national and regional competitiveness through 
improved competitiveness planning, quality management, logistics costs reduction and export 
promotion. 
The first DCDPL loan stressed fiscal sustainability, establishing a new fiscal decentralization framework 
and ensuring a hard budget constraint alongside a series of related competitiveness measures.  The 
Page  3
second DCDPL loan reflected an expansion in the overall program to include a heavier emphasis on 
supporting the Government of Peru’s competitiveness agenda.  The loan also moved towards measures 
that enhance efficiency and quality in service delivery. The third DCDPL loan aims consolidated and 
strengthen many of the reforms taken during the first two phases of the program, as well as support 
further key reforms in the areas of decentralization and competitiveness. 
The program hinges on significant policy making, legal reform and administrative actions to: (i) 
improve budget accounting and reporting at all levels of government; (ii) strengthen monitoring and 
evaluation capacity, especially at the national level; (iii) mobilize greater public and private resources 
and participation; and (iv) enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of key government institutions.  
Through a focus on results and a change in the incentives framework, the loan aims to ensure the 
necessary structural changes that allow long-term sustainable reforms. It is based on a clearly focused 
approach that targets those key reforms areas which are most vulnerable at the early stage of the 
decentralization process and the competitiveness reforms crucial at the start of the FTA negotiations.  
An incremental approach, based on careful sequencing in line with key government principles, ensures 
the identification of the most important entry points for sustainable reforms that promise visible and 
durable results.  Reforms are based on the guiding principle of gradualism to ensure a careful transfer of 
responsibilities and resources while avoiding duplication at different levels of government. 
 
Additionally, reforms will also address the guiding principle of fiscal neutrality in the decentralization 
process, while enabling a focus on regional competitiveness.  This sequencing strategy responds to 
government demands and will also be reflected in a different mix of decentralization and 
competitiveness reforms for the upcoming DCDPL III loan.  Key fiscal and economic reforms are 
combined with participatory approaches and change management that allow for greater consensus and 
sustainability of these reforms. 
Finally, most reform objectives are being supported by the underlying fiscal and competitiveness 
reforms in the TALs and can thus be supported by a continuous and close policy dialogue reinforcing 
the DPL reforms 
3. Preliminary 
description 
The decentralization objectives of the last loan place greater emphasis on supporting ex-post conditions.  
This programmatic loan will reinforce guiding principles that reconcile fiscal neutrality with fiscal and 
financial incentives for the newly merged regions. The program also strengthens public debt 
sustainability by supporting the regulation of decentralized borrowing and debt reporting procedures for 
sub-national governments.  It supports the implementation of a centralized (MEF-based) public 
expenditure evaluation system.  The system aims to effectively monitor, coordinate and assess public 
expenditure at all levels of government, enhance the quality of budget decisions and ensure efficient and 
targeted service delivery.  Finally, the program also supports actions to smooth volatility of revenues for 
sub-national governments. 
Likewise, as the core institutions and legal framework for supporting competitiveness is already in 
place, the program has shifted towards strengthening institutions and initiatives at the regional level.  
This loan seeks to improve the business environment and investment climate; and assist the regions in 
developing capabilities to develop and implement competitiveness and investment programs and to 
strengthen the regional business environment.  This loan supports efforts to facilitate increases in 
exports, particularly non-traditional ones, and to improve trade facilities in the regions.  Finally, the 
program supports actions to reduce logistics costs through improved policy frameworks and service 
provision at ports and on the road networks, as well as the facilitation of improved transportation 
services. 
4. Environment Aspects 
Page  4
Following OP8.60, the team considered whether the operation has any relevant aspects for the 
environment, forest and natural resources. The specific policies supported by this DPL operation, which 
focus on reforming social policies and institutions on the macro level, are not expected to entail 
significant impacts to the environment.  However, as Peru moves forward with certain aspects of its 
competitiveness and decentralization policies, particularly the construction of key transportation 
infrastructure components to facilitate economic activity in different regions of the country, 
environmental considerations could become more important.  As well, giving greater authority to local 
levels of governance could weaken environmental oversight in places, especially related to the mining 
industry, depending on the institutional capacity of different municipal and regional governments.  
The Bank has taken a number of steps to address these potential future problems.  First, in FY05, the 
Bank completed a detailed study on the environmental and social impacts of the mining industry, 
offering specific recommendations to improve environmental oversight and control, as well as 
improving community relations with mining companies and making the fiscal income from mining more 
transparent.  Second, the Bank put together a guidebook including environmental and social principals 
that the Government should use in the design and implementation of new infrastructure, as part of the 
Guarantee Facility approved in April 2005.  These guidelines clearly lay out Bank safeguard policy in 
the environmental and social areas. And lastly, the Bank is in the process of writing a comprehensive 
Country Environmental Assessment (CEA), which is expected to be completed before the end of FY06. 
The CEA will:  
•
Identify the country’s key environmental priorities that are linked to growth and poverty 
reduction; 
•
Assess the adequacy of the institutional capacity to address priority environmental development 
concerns within the context of the Government’s broader decentralization reforms; and 
•
Outline policy, technical, and institutional interventions to address environmental concerns that 
are both cost-effective and politically feasible for the Government at the national and sub-national 
levels. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: (US$m.) 
IBRD  
150 
KfW 12 
TOTAL 162 
 
6. Contact point 
Task Manager:
 
Rossana Polastri 
 
Country Economist 
 
Tel:  511-615-0660 or 5357+259 
 
Fax: 511-421-7241 or 5357+319 
 
Email: rpolastri@worldbank.org 
 
Location: Lima, Peru
 
Co-Task Manager:
 
Jose Luis Guasch 
 
Regional Advisor, Regulation and Competition 
 
Tel:  202-473-8606 
 
Fax: 202-522-2106 
 
Email: jguasch@worldbank.org 
 
Location: Washington, DC
Page  5
