Document of
THE WORLD BANK
Report No. 17396-MAR,
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$24 MILLION
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FORA
HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
February 24, 1998
Human Development II
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange rate effective as of December 22, 1997)
Currency Unit = UM
I UM    US$0.006353
US$1   157.41 UM
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB       - African Development Bank
AIDS       - Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ARI        - Acute Respiratory Infections
BCI        - Budget consolide d'investissements (Public Investment Budget)
BHA        - Better Health in Africa
CAS        - Country Assistance Strategy
CDC        - Center for Disease Control
CGP        - Comitet de gestion du programme (Program Management Committee)
CHN        - Centre hospitalier national (National Hospital Center)
CPF        - Centre de promotion feminine (Center for the Promotion of Women)
CPP        - Commission de preparation du PASS (Project Preparation Committee)
CSA        - Centre de sante cate,gorie A (Health center category A)
CSB        - Centre de sante categorie B (Health center category B)
CSPD       - Commission chargee du suivi et de la mise en oeui re du Plan Directeur
1998-2002 (Sector Policy Implementation Board)
DAAF       - Direction des affaires administratives etfinancieres (Directorate of Administrative
and Financial Affairs)
DALY       - Disability Adjusted Life-Year
DGI        - Direction de gestion des investissements (Directorate of Investment Management)
DHR        - Direction des ressources humaines (Directorate of Human Resources)
DHS        - Demographic and Health Survey
DPCS       - Direction de la planification, de la cooperation et ale la statistique (Directorate of
Planning, Cooperation and Statistics)
DPM        - Direction de la pharmacie et du medicament (Directorate for Drugs)
DRASS    - Direction regionale de l 'action socio-sanitaire (Regional Health Directorate)
ENSP       - Ecole nationale de la santepublique (National School of Public Health)
EPI        - Extended Program of Immunization
EU         - European Union
FAO        - Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FDI        - Foreign Direct Investment
FGM        - Female Genital Mutilation
FPU        - Family Planning Unit
GDP        - Gross Domestic Product
GOM        - Government of Mauritania
GTZ        - German Agency for Technical Cooperation
HIV        - Human Immuno-deficiency Virus
HP         - Communal Health Post
HSIP       - Health Sector Investment Project
IBRD       - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IAPSO      - United Nations Inter-Agency Procurement Services
Vice Presidents       Jean-Louis Sarbib and Callisto Madavo
Country Director       Hasan Tuluy
|Sector Managxers    :Ok Pannenborg /Nicholas Buniett
Task Team Leader    :Sergiu Luculescu.



ICB        - International Competitive Bidding
IDA        - International Development Association
IEC        - Information, Education and Communication
IMR        - Infant Mortality Rate
KAP        - Knowledge, Attitudes and Practice (survey)
MCH        - Maternal and Child Health
M&E        - Monitoring and Evaluation
MEP        - Manuel d'execution du programme (Program Implementation Manuel)
MF         - Ministere des finances (Ministry of Finance)
MMR        - Maternal Mortality Rate
MSAS       - Ministere de la sante et des affaires sociales (Ministry of Health and Social
Affairs)
MP         - Ministere du plan (Ministry of Planning)
QAG        - Quality Assurance Group
NGO        - Non-Governmental Organization
ONS        - Office national des statistiques (National Bureau of Statistics)
PASS       - Projet d'appui au secteur de la sante (HSIP)
PDIS       - Plan de developpement des infrastructures de sante (Health Infrastructures
Development Plan)
PDRH       - Plan de developpement des resources humaines (Human Resources Development
Plan)
PER        - Public Expenditure Review
PFP        - Policy Framework Paper
PHC        - Primary Health Care
PHRD grant - Policy and Human Resources Development grant
POAS       - Plan d'operation annuel pour le secteur (Annual Operational Plan)
PPF        - Project Preparation Facility
PRCI       - Plan de renforcement de la capacite institutionnelle (Plan for institutional capacity
strengthening)
PTHG       - Plan triennal a horizon glissant (Three-Year Rolling Plan)
RH         - Regional Hospital
SECF       - Secretariat d'etat a la condition feminine
(Executive Secretariat for Women Promotion)
SBD        - Standard Bidding Document
SDR        - Special Drawing Rights
SIP        - Sector Investment Project
SOE        - Statement of Expenditures
STDs       - Sexually Transmitted Diseases
TB         - Tuberculosis
TSS        - Techniciens superieurs de sante (Senior Health Technicians)
UM         - Unite monetaire (Ouguiya)
UNFPA      - United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF   - United Nations Children's Fund
UNIPAC   - UNICEF Procurement and Assembly Center (Centrale d'achat et de stockage
de l'UNICEF)
USAID      - United States Agency for International Development
WDR        - World Development Report
WHO        - World Health Organization






MAURITANIA
Health Sector Investment Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ................2..................................................2
1. Project development objective and key indicators for development outcome/impact.. 2
B. Strategic Context ..................................................................3
1. Sector-related CAS goals supported by the project .......................................................3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ............................................................ 3
3. Sector issues expected to be resolved before project effectiveness ...............................4
4. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ...............................5
C. Project Description Summary ..................................................................6
1. Project components ............................................................6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .....................................6
3. Benefits and target population ............................................................7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ............................................................8
D. Project Rationale .................................................................                                            10
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................ 10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ...... 10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the Program  design .................................................. 11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .................................................. 13
5. Value added of Bank support in this Program ...........................................................  13
E. Summary Project Analyses ................................................................. 14
1. Economic ........................................................... 14
2. Financial ...........................................................                                               15
3. Technical ...........................................................                                               15
4. Institutional ........................................................... 16
5. Social ........................................................... 17
6. Environmental assessment ...........................................................                                17
7. Participatory approach ...........................................................                                  17
F. Sustainability and Risks .................................................................                                    18
1. Sustainability ...........................................................                                         18
2. Critical risks ...........................................................                                          19



3. Possible controversial aspects ......................                       21
G. Main Credit Conditions ............................                                22
1. Conditions ......................                                           22
2. Legal Covenants ..................                                          23
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                              23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................              ,              24
Annexes
Annex 1.      Program Design Summary
Annex 2A.    Detailed Program Description
Annex 2B.    Donor Activities in the Health Sector
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4A.    Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of the PTHG 1998-2000 for the Health Sector in
Mauritania
Annex 4B.    Economic Analysis
Annex 5.      Financial Summary
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.      Program Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.      Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Table D.      Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit (1US$ million)
Annex 7.      Program Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Annex 11.    Letter of Sector Policy
Map: IBRD 29419



Mauritania
Health Sector Investment Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH2
Date: February 24, 1998                                  Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Sergiu Luculescu
Country Manager/Director: Hasan Tuluy                    Sector Manager/Director: Ok Pannenborg/Nicholas Burnett
Project ID: MR-PE-35689   Sector: Pop. Health & Nutrition    Project Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Sector-wide Investment Credit (SIP)  Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes   [ ] No
Project Financing Data                   [] Loan        [X] Credit       [  Guarantee          [ ] Other [Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$24 million / SDR 17.8 million
Proposed terms:                            [ ]   Multi-currency    []   Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10           [x]  Standard Variable   [ ]  Fixed               [    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                Local                Foreign             Total
Government                                                     75.8                   0                 75.8
Cofinanciers                                                     0                   72.4               72.4
IDA'                                                             0                   24.0               24.0
Beneficiary contribution                                        19.4                  0                 19.4
Total        95.2                  96.4              191.6
Borrower: Government of Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Guarantor: NA
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):        1998        1999        2000        2001        2002       2003
Annual      1.0       4.7          5.1        5.7         5.9        1.6
Cumulative     1.0        5.7         10.8       16.5        22.4      24.0
For Guarantees: NA                                  []   Partial credit    [ ] Partial risk
Proposed coverage: NA
Project sponsor: NA
Nature of underlying financing: NA
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization
profile
Financing available without guarantee?: NA              []    Yes               [    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 5  Expected effectiveness date: 05/15/1998   Expected closing date: 6/30/2003
OSD PAD Form: February 24, 1998



Project Appraisal Document                                    Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                Page 2 of 24
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators:
On the basis of the new sector policy (Plan Directeur 1998-2002) and the Plan triennal e horizon
glissant (PTHG) 1998-2000, a broad Health Sector Investment Project (HSIP) is proposed to support the
implementation of the GOM's Program for the health sector during the period 1998-2002. The overall
objective of the Program is to improve the health status of the population in general (and of underserved
groups in particular) through the provision of more accessible and affordable quality health services. The
Program's specific objectives are to:
(a) improve health services quality and coverage;
(b) improve health sector's financing and performance;
(c) mitigate the effects of major public health problems; and
(d) promote social action and create an environment conducive to health.
HSIP will provide financial support to achieve all of these objectives. Additional agreements
reached with Government ensure that the project will also contribute significantly to the strengthening of
sector capacity by: (i) promoting government leadership in the formulation and implementation of a
coherent sector policy; (ii) establishing sound planning and budgeting practices; (iii) improving sector
administrative and clinical performance; (iv) helping decentralize decision-making in the public sector;
and (v) helping MSAS to institute an effective coordination mechanism to channel donor and NGOs
resources for the achievement of sector policy. Further to the GOM's request, the project will also
support: (a) the collection of demographic and health data, by contributing to the funding of a
demographic and health survey and of a population census, and (b) the sector to monitor a set of key
health indicators, thus enabling the Government to continuously assess the progress made in the
implementation of its Program for the sector.
Key indicators for development outcome/impact (see Annex 1)
GOM's new sector policy was prepared by the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs (MSAS)
with the involvement of central and district health staff, with specific input by relevant personnel from
other sectors, and in collaboration with donors and NGOs. Specific indicators to evaluate the outcomes
and impact of the sector policy include:
(i) vaccination coverage (to increase to 85% in 2002);
(ii) expenditures for primary and secondary health care (to be maintained at same levels as in
1995 i.e., at least 40% of total expenditures);
(iii) health facilities utilization rates (to increase to 80% in 2002);
(iv) infant mortality rate (to be reduced to 80/1000 in 2002);
(v) under-five mortality rate (to be reduced to 90/1000 in 2002); and
(vi) total fertility rate (to be reduced to 5.5 in 2002).
Monitoring indicators, to be used in the annual progress review reports, are listed in the Letter of Sector
Policy (Annex I 1).



Project Appraisal Document                                       Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                    Page 3 of 24
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CountryAssistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16595          Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/21/1997
The CAS specifically mentions, among its strategic elements: (a) poverty reduction; (b) increase
of human capital; and (c) improvement in the access and quality of health services (by means of
developing basic and referral health services with emphasis on remote geographical areas), and
development of adequate reproductive health services. Moreover, the proposed project will also
contribute to other CAS areas of intervention such as development of the rural sector, modernization of
the public sector and gender supporting activities. The CAS mentions among its "Triggers for Bank
assistance program" the achievement of quantified vaccination rates. All these elements are fully
consistent with GOM policy for the health sector and with the HSIP objectives.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The recently adopted health sector policy continues GOM's reform process, which was initially
outlined in the Plan Directeur 1991-1995/6 and supported by the Bank's current health project. An
evaluation of the Plan Directeur 1991-1995/6 indicated substantial progress in the areas of health
services delivery (with the extension of health facility coverage to 75% of the population and the
availability of essential drugs at the health posts), health systems administration (particularly with respect
to decentralization and sector financing through the introduction of cost recovery), and participatory
management. In addition, Bank analysis of GOM's public expenditures (conducted in 1995 and 1996)
demonstrated sustained commitment to increasing the Government's financing of the health sector,
imrproving the allocation of resources (toward developing primary health care services and increasing the
non-wage portion of the recurrent budget), and developing effective cost recovery arrangements.
While substantial progress has been made, significant sectoral issues and constraints remain,
including: (i) insufficient access to quality health services, particularly preventive services and services
for newly emerging health needs and problems such as STD/AIDS, water-borne diseases, etc.; (ii)
inadequate planning and management capabilities for administering resources at the various levels of the
health system; and (iii) weak structures for promoting intersectoral coordination and participatory
decision-making on vital health concerns. Specific sectoral issues and the Government's response
include:
(a) Low access to services: While steady progress has been made in the development of health
infrastructure, the existing health facility network is not fullyaccessible: 25% of the population
still must travel more than five kilometers to reach a health center or a health post, while 10%
must cover more than ten kilometers to reach the nearest health facility. During the preparation of
the proposed project, a comprehensive Plan de de'veloppement des infrastructures de sante
(PDIS) containing standardized building requirements, equipment lists, etc. has been adopted and
will guide decisions on future services over the next five years.
(b) Poor quality of care: Development of human resources has been characterized by weak
personnel management, inequitable allocation of the various categories of staff, and inadequate
training and motivation contributing to the poor quality of services. During the last five years,
MSAS has consistently pursued a staff deployment/redeployment policy with the following
results: (a) a computerized staff register has been set up, (b) training of health personnel, and in
particular of staff working in referral hospitals and health centers, has become a priority; and (c)
a Plan for human resources development for the period 1988-2002 (PDRH) is being developed.



Project Appraisal Document                                   Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                               Page 4 of 24
To ensure appropriate staffing and training, this document (PDRH), takes into account the new
staffing norms per category of health facility, the projected development of health infrastructures,
and the skills needed to improve the quality of services.
(c) Inadequate drug supply: While the introduction of cost recovery at the health post and health
center levels has significantly improved the availability of essential drugs, drug procurement and
distribution continue to pose problems. Complementary interventions by the proposed project (to
strengthen procurement capabilities) and by the African Development Bank (to reinforce the
management capacities of the Direction de la pharmacie et du medicament (DPM) and drug
distribution) should improve the availability of drugs. In addition, the introduction of cost
recovery at the district hospital level will ensure the availability of drugs. A comprehensive
review of cost-recovery arrangements will take place, during the first year of the project, to
ascertain, among other things, that enough funds for providing the public health sector with drugs
to will be available during the Program.
(d) Insufficient emphasis on prevention: Although the sector policy emphasizes prevention,
preventive activities represent only 20% of the cost of services provided by the public sector.
The introduction of cost recovery has contributed to this situation by creating incentives for
providing curative rather than preventive services. The new health sector policy seeks to correct
this situation (75% of activities now being proposed have high cost-effectiveness ratios and 25%
medium cost-effectiveness ratios); measures to introduce incentives to motivate health providers
in preventive care are also being developed.
(e) Weak sector management and administrative capacity: The pertinence of the current
administrative and management arrangements to the tasks and requirements of thePlan directeur
1998-2002 has been analyzed and a Plan de renforcemnen de la capacite institutionnelle (PRCI)
has been agreed upon. This will result in substantial changes in the organizational structure of
MSAS. Regarding the MSAS' abilities (in the areas of policy development, planning and
budgeting, financial management, procurement and resource management) current efforts to
evaluate the previous sector policy, to adopt the new policy and to finalize the PTHG 1998-2000,
have helped strengthen central capacity. Needs for skilled management personnel are even more
acute at regional and departmental levels. The recent empowering of the Direction regionale de
l'action socio-sanitaire (DRASS) with personnel management tasks, and GOM's commitment to
substantially increase district discretionary budgets are among the solutions to the problem.
(f) Relations with donors and NGOs: Project preparation work conducted by MSAS has also
contributed to the strengthening of relations with donors aLnd NGOs, and other sectors, since all
major policy documents have been developed in close consultation with external and internal
partners. The recently developed PTHG 1998-2000 presents, for the first time in Mauritania, a
comprehensive picture of all sector activities and of their source of funding. The PRCI foresees
specific measures to build up capacity in many areas among which the MSAS' donorlNGO
coordination function is seen as a priority.
3. Sector issues expected to be resolved before the proposedproject's effectiveness:
A number of sectoral issues will be resolved before the proposed project's effectiveness. In
particular:
(a) MSAS' Study on health facilities utilization and equipmenit needs and the PDIS provide a sound
basis for expanding health services coverage over the next five years. Endorsement by all donors



Project Appraisal Document                                       Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                    Page 5 of 24
of the overall sector policy and of the PTHG has already taken place and will ensure effective
implementation and standardized infrastructure design.
I(b) The implementation of the human resource development plan will contribute to the resolution of
personnel distribution and training problems.
(c) Drug procurement and maintenance shortcomings are also being addressed, e.g., the Directorate
for drugs (DPM) and the Maintenance service at MSAS are being strengthened; private firns
have been involved in medical equipment maintenance; and GOM has decided to develop a
maintenance strategy for the sector.
(d) The PRCI-centrally, in regions and districts-will be finalized before credit effectiveness. This
plan is being carried out with support from the current IDA project, a PHRD grant, and a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF), and it will continue to be implemented after credit effectiveness with
support from the proposed IDA project. A preliminary analysis of this plan shows that about
70% of the first year's disbursements from the proposed IDA credit will be made for institutional
strengthening.
(e) Decentralization of decision-making to sub-national levels and especially to DRASS's is in
process and will be further supported by means of the PPF. Strengthening of donor coordination
activities conducted by the MSAS has also started (e.g. PTHG meetings were jointly chaired by
the ministers of planning and health), but work will need to continue after credit effectiveness.
4. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Government's strategic choices are clearly spelled out in the new sector policy and include decisions
related to:
(a) expanding coverage by providing health facilities capable of treating a high proportion of cases,
thereby significantly reducing the referral to more specialized levels and abroad;
(b) using cost-effective options such as development of primary health care and preventive activities;
(c) further decentralization of decision making to districts (DRASS's) and below;
(d) consensus building (under MSAS leadership) with donors, NGOs, central programs, and regional
and district health units; and
(e) sustainable financing of the costs of improving health service delivery and health systems
administration.



Project Appraisal Document                                    Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Maurtania                                                                 Page 6 of 24
C: Project Description Summary
L. Program components (see Annex 2 A &B for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component               Category        Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-        % of
Contingencies   Total  financing    Bank-
(US$M)               (US$M)   financing
*  Improve health services    Infrastructure,      86.4         45.1      3.1      12.9
quality and coverage.    equipment
consultants.
*  Improve health sector's    Consultants,         37.4         19.5      1.8       7.5
financing and            equipment, inst.
performance.             capacity,
operating costs.
*  Mitigate the effects of   Drugs,                56.5         29.5      1.3       5.4
major public health      equipment,
problems.                training,
operating costs.
*  Strengthen social action    Institutional       11.3          5.9      0.2       0.8
and create an environment  capacity,
conducive to health.     operating costs.
*  To be allocated during the                       0.0          0.0    17.6       73.3
3rd, 4th and 5th program
year.
Total                                             191.6        100.0    24.0      100.0
IDA will support this Program-by means of the HSIP-acti.ng as a last resort lender. As
described in detail in Annex 2A and 6, activities to receive financial support from the credit have been
identified for the first two calendar years of the Program. The remainder of the credit (73%) is to be
allocated during the 3rd, 4th and 5th program year. Modalities for allocating this part of the credit are
presented under Section 4 below (see Annual Planning and Budgeting.)
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The policy reforms summarized in the Plan Directeur 1998-2002 are detailed in a series of
specific documents prepared during project preparation (the PDIS, the PDRH, and the PRCI) and
included (with estimated costs) in the PTHG. The project will continue to support policy reforms in these
and in additional areas, including quality of care, information management, cost recovery (at hospital
level), drug supply and distribution, and social action reform.
These sector reforms will be accompanied by institutional reformns resulting from MSAS's
increased leadership role in defining sectoral directions and its enhanced capacities for implementing its
policy. Specifically, while donors will continue to play an active role in the sector, MSAS will be
expected to take the lead for coordinating implementation of thePlan Directeur 1998-2002; periodically
updating physical and financial progress; revising central and district plans and budgets; mobilizing
internal and external funding; and evaluating impact. Revisions in the organizational structure of MSAS
will be supported by the recruitmnent or transfer of additional staff and by technical and financial support
for the following functions: planning and programming, public health administration, donor coordination,
financial analysis and budgeting, procurement, accounting, auditing, monitoring and evaluation.



Project Appraisal Document                                     Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                  Page 7 of 24
3. Benefits and target population:
By strengthening sector performance, the Program will improve health status, particularly of
women, children and under-served populations, including the populations living in the remotest
geographical zones.
Sector performance will benefit from the Program's capacity building component which will
improve administrative performance and service delivery, and will promote the involvement of regions,
distiricts and communities in decision-making. The resource base for the sector will be strengthened by:
(i) extension of cost recovery; (ii) introduction, where feasible, of pre-payment arrangements for health
service provision at community level; (iii) growth of the private sector; and (iv) partnership between the
public sector, donors and NGOs.
Specific sets of indicators to monitor progress and assess the degree of achievement of various
objectives have been designed for each of the sector policy components. Analysis of prior health
expenditures has demonstrated that the bulk of service delivery was already in primary and secondary
care, thereby benefiting the poor and rural population. A study of cost-effectiveness and soundness of the
sector policy and plans-based on the findings of the World Development Report (WDR) 1993 and the
Better Health in Africa (BHA) study as bench-marks-has also been carried out.  This study
demonstrates that 75% of the activities proposed in the sector policy have high cost-effectiveness ratios
and address large population groups.
It is envisaged that, during Program implementation, beneficiary assessments will be carried out
at two-year intervals, to monitor progress and the degree of satisfaction at the level of users of services.
Though the Program is sector-wide and will address the entire population, it focuses mostly on
providing accessible and quality health services with emphasis on the rural poor population, and women
and children, thereby contributing to poverty alleviation. For this reason, this operation would be part of
the Program of Targeted Interventions for poverty alleviation.
In summary, the Program will generate the following economic and social benefits:
* Improved health status of the poor, of women and of children leading to better school
performance for children and increased productivity for adults.
* Development of primary health care and use of a cost-effective package of preventive and
curative services to improve children's health, enhance school readiness, contribute to the
development of human capital, and foster beneficial social behavior, thereby lessening social
welfare costs and promoting community development.
* Reduced fertility rates resulting from family planning, reproductive health and IEC activities,
thus lessening the burden on the poorest families and contributing to economic growth.
* More efficient utilization of financial resources (internal and donor contributed) available to the
health sector.
* More equitable geographical distribution of health services promoting both health gains and
economic development in the population of remote areas.



Project Appraisal Document                                   Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                               Page 8 of 24
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: Five years: 1998-2002
Executing agencies:    Ministry of Health and Social Afifairs (MSAS)
Program  coordination:  The MSAS, through its central directorates and district health
administrative units, will have overall responsibility for the management of all Program activities. More
specifically:
(a) The Minister of Health will provide policy guidance and oversight. He/she will receive technical
support from the Secretary General and central directors., and from the Comite de gestion du
programme (CGP). The Ministry of Planning will continue to monitor donor programs, but will
also substantially involve MSAS in this activity.
(b) In order to coordinate activities, build consensus, and involve donors, NGOs and other line
ministries, the Commission de preparation du PASS (CPP) currently operating under the
chairmanship of the Secretary General of MSAS and composed of central-level program
directors, representatives of other sectors, donors and NGOs, will be converted into a
Commission chargee du suivi et de la mise en oeuvre du Plarn Directeur 1998-2002 (CSPD). The
Technical Secretariat of the CPP will be converted into a Comitf de gestion du programme
(CGP). A document stating the terms of reference of these bodies will be issued before credit
effectiveness.
(c) Policy, planning, monitoring, evaluation and overall coordination work will be carried out by
MSAS Direction de la planification, de la cooperation et tes statistiques (DPCS) at the central
level, and by Directions regionales de I 'action socio-sanitaire (DRASS) in districts.
(d) Financial management of GOM budget for the sector, human resources management and
personnel matters will be carried out by the Direction des cffaires administratives etfinancieres
(DAAF). A newly-created Direction de gestion des inves,tissements (DGI) will, using current
expertise built under the PSP, complement DAAF activities by handling all procurement
operations financed by donors and from the GOM budget. In the beginning, the DGI will handle
IDA funding to the sector; during Program implementation it is expected that, gradually, other
donors will also channel their funds through the MSAS. This will also make it possible to
progressively develop common implementation arrangements to be used for GOM and donor
funds. All of these coordinating functions will be further developed and supported in accordance
with the PRCI, currently being developed and agreed with Government. Program coordination
requirements will be also addressed in the Program Implementation Manual.
Annual planning and budgeting: The DPCS will prepare annual operational plans, and annual
progress reports (based on the results of Program monitoring carried out with the assistance of all central
directorates and DRASSs), and organize mandatory review meetings with donors and NGOs to reach a
consensus on these documents. These meetings will constitute the main mechanism for: (i) Program
review, adjustment and rolling of the PTHG, (ii) agreement with donors and NGOs on the annual plan
and budget for the next fiscal year, and for (iii) identifying IDA funded activities (with the exception of
the first two fiscal years for which activities have already been identified) from the activity list contained
in the PTHG (by selecting activities in line with the health sector's policy and priorities for which no
source of financing was available).



Project Appraisal Document                                   Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                               Page 9 of 24
As the SIP approach might make it necessary to use IDA funds in program areas traditionally not
targeted by IDA investment projects (such as secondary and tertiary care, if sufficient resources for
primary health care are provided from other sources), the sector Program and plan have been thoroughly
analyzed to ensure compliance with cost-effectiveness criteria and Bank's policy for the health sector.
Similarly, during project implementation, the relevance of annual plans and budgets and their compliance
with the sector policy will be reviewed yearly, before a decision is made as to which activities will
receive financial support from the credit. Lastly, in order to ascertain that investments in infrastructure
and equipment are made in accordance with mid-term objectives set forth in the sector policy and plan,
and that investment expenditures are matched by commensurate recurrent funds, the PDIS 1998-2002,
including adequate provision for maintenance and supplies, was prepared by Government and agreed
upon by IDA, donors and NGOs. This will allow the preparation (well in advance of the annual
consultations with donors and NGOs on the sector plan and budget) of bidding documents for
infrastructure and equipment, thus shortening the time necessary for their procurement.
At the end of these consultations, donor commitments to various Program components for the
fcllowing year will be stated, thus enabling IDA to act as a last resort financier and allocate money for
gaps in identified priority areas. It is expected that IDA funding will be, on average, relatively small, i.e.,
about 12.5% of the total Program cost.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The DAAF and the DGI will be
responsible for Program  administrative and financial management, and reporting.  The financial
mLanagement system used for the current IDA credit has been analyzed and found adequate. However,
given the complexity of the Program, the financial management system at MSAS will be further
irmproved. Financial management will be based on a computerized system that will be installed at DAAF
and DGI which will include: (i) accounting based on: (a) Project Chart of Accounts to group expenditures
by project component or activities; (b) disbursement categories and source of funds; and (c) appropriate
accounting standards and reporting periods and formats; (ii) recording of monitorable physical and other
performance indicators including comparison with related costs, and explanation of variances; (iii)
procurement contract management information; and (iv) internal control arrangements to ensure proper
segregation of duties, documented procedures for authorizations, levels of supervision etc. This system
will also allow to monitor recurrent and investment expenditures by region and level of care. Records
will be kept for all project-related expenditures and financing, following regular budgetary procedures. A
special account for the IDA credit will be opened and maintained with a commercial bank acceptable to
I]DA. This account will be managed by the Director of the DGI.
An independent auditor, acceptable to IDA, will audit IDA funds, including the IDA special
account and statements of expenditures. Audit reports will be submitted not later than six months after
the end of the financial year. The auditor's terms of reference and selection will be agreed with IDA
during Negotiations, and the appointment of the auditor will be a condition for credit effectiveness.
Under the Program, MSAS' financial management system will be strengthened and computerized to
allow proper monitoring of expenditures per level, geographical area, and budget line. MSAS will be
strengthened-inter alia-by receiving technical assistance in accounting, financial management, and
financial management information.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Under the overall guidance of the Minister and the
Secretary General's direct supervision (supported by the CSPD and the CGP), the Directorate for
Planning, Cooperation and Statistics will monitor and evaluate Program implementation. The DPCS will
also prepare annual progress reports (based on the results of Program monitoring carried out with the
assistance of all central directorates and DRASSs), propose annual operational plans, and organize the
annual mandatory discussion with donors and NGOs on these documents.



Project Appraisal Document                                    Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                               Page 10 of 24
Indicators (based on the logical framework) have been designed (see Annexes I and I 1) and will
be used to measure the general progress of the Program and its outputs and, where possible, its outcomes.
A beneficiary assessment has already been carried out; similar surveys will be repeated at two year
intervals after credit effectiveness.
A mid-term review of the Program will be carried out in the year 2000 in accordance with the
terms of reference and monitoring/evaluation indicators agreed with IDA and the donors (Annex 11).
Within six months of the closing of the IDA credit, an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be
prepared by IDA, with MSAS contributing its own evaluation of the Program to the ICR. The ICR will
analyze both the success of the overall sector Program and the results of the IDA contribution to the
sector.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
(a) A classical investment project based on the design of the current PSP project was considered as
an alternative to a SIP and discussed both at review meetings in Washington and with the GOM.
Such a project may yield more immediate benefits, disburse IDA funds more promptly, and offer
the possibility of funding activities in sectors other than health (i.e., population activities
conducted by the MP and gender and nutrition activities developed by the Secretariat d 'etat a la
condition fiminine). However, the drawbacks of such a project outweigh its advantages as it: (i)
will extend the life of the PSP project unit to the detriment of a more harrnonious sector
strengthening; (ii) will continue an undue reliance on donor-initiated decisions; (iii) may delay
and detract from MSAS's policy development work, and may not be the best vehicle for sector
reform; and (iv) will provide narrower sector and health status benefits.
(b) A large project combining: (i) an integrated sector-wide investment Program for the health
sector; and (ii) an inter-sectoral project to address delerminants of ill-health requiring
interventions by sectors other than health, with emphasis on nutrition, was also discussed. Such a
project was deemed too complex and cumbersome, especially from a management and
mnonitoring viewpoint. As a result, in addition to the proposecl health sector investment project, a
free-standing nutrition project has been identified and will support those nutrition strategies
necessitating actions by other sectors, such as agriculture, fishery, women affairs, rural
development and planning. This latter project will be presented to Board in FY98.
2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
andplanned):
(a) The health sector in Mauritania is being supported by the Health and Population Project (PSP; Cr.
231 I-MAU), the first IDA credit to the sector, which is scheduled to be closed August 30, 1998.
Designed as a regular investrnent operation, it has financed: (i) population activities developed
under the coordination of the Human Resources Directorate of the MP; (ii) gender activities
conducted by the Secretariat d'Etat a la condition fiminine; and (iii) health activities organized
by MSAS to support health service delivery in two regions in addition to Nouakchott, and the
strengthening of key technical programs such as family planning, MCH, IEG, and STD/AIDS.
(b) A free-standing Nutrition and Social Participation project has recently been identified, as a
complementary project to the present HSIP. This project will provide financial support to
nutrition activities at grass-root level and will involve NGOs and ministries other than MSAS,
such as the Secretariat d'Etat a la condition fiminime, Agriculture, Fisheries, Rural development.
(c) Other donors currently active in the health sector in Mauritania include, besides the UN agencies,
the EU, the French and German Cooperations, the Saudi Development Fund, the Islamic Bank for



Prqjoct Appraisal Document                                              Proect Tite: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                             Page 11 of 24
Development, and the AfDB. Their activities and programs are described in Annex 2B is
presented, in summary, in the following table.
Sector issue                Project                  Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
Implementation Progress    Development Objective (DO)
_  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  ___     .__  __  _ _ _._   _            (IP)
Bank-financed
Health, Population, Gender   Health and Population    Last form 590: November  Improve health status by
(Credit 2311 MAU)      199?; rated satisfactory    provision of basic health
services; help develop a
population policy; assist
development of gender
activities.
Nutrition                    Nutrition and social   At pre-appraisal stage  Improve nutrition status by
action                                         developing grass-root activities.
Education                    General Education      Last form 590: June     Assist education sector (primary
(Credit 2706-MR)       1997;                   and secondary ed.; improve
-rated satisfactory     quality and resource
Vocational Education   -rated unsatisfactory   mobilization) and
(Credit 252 1 -MR)     (crrrently under intensive  rationalize technical and
supervision)           vocational training.
Other development agencies'
European Union               Rehabilitation of      Satisfactorily          Tertiary and secondary hospital
National Hospital Center  implemented (1993-1995)  development.
& Aioun Hospital       ECU 8,000,000
Service decentralization   Satisfactorily      Secondary hospital and primary
in Gorgol District    implemented;             health care development.
(1991-1995);
ECU 8,500,000
AIDSISTM Support       Satisfactorily          Capacity building and program
implemnented until 1996.   support for AIDS/STM.
Suspended due to
disagreement on project
coordinator;
ECU 600,000
African Development Bank     Primary Health Services  Implemented with delays,  Strengthening drug
Strengthening          since 1994 (effective   procurement at central level;
since 1992);            Development of PHC in 2
UCF 10,000,000          districts; and
Support to maintenance service.
French Cooperation           Structural Adjustment    Current; relatively   Development of PHC and first
successful;             referral health facilities.
FF13,000,000
Health System          Implemented; relatively    Decentralization;
Restructuring          successful; during 1992-   District health services;
1995                    AIDS/STD; and
_______________________  __________FF12,000,000     Health personnel development.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the Program design:
(a) The current IDA-assisted Health and Population Project (PSP) originally intended to encompass
many donors (AfDB, CFD, UNICEF and UNFPA). This arrangement was never fully
implemented, as the respective donors ultimately preferred projects of their own or made
effective their funds with considerable delay. In spite of PSP's complexity, the project is
'A detailed description of the health sector's donor-funded projects is available in Annex 2B



Project Appraisal Document                                   Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                              Page 12 of 24
successful (disburses well, will reach all objectives, will be closed as scheduled, and has received
adequate counterpart-funding). While the results of the PSP prompted both the Bank and the
GOM to consider a similar project design for the next credit (Section Dl), this option was
discarded in favor of a sector-wide investment operation. The investment in staff and equipment
made in the PSP management unit will not be lost, however, as most of this staff will be used to
strengthen the institutional capacity of MSAS.
(b) Implementation of PSP has shown GOM to be a committed partner which pursues a sound sector
policy and observes agreements. On the negative side, "PSP has not sufficiently enhanced
MSAS's management capacity and has not significantly contributed to the strengthening of donor
coordination activities (which have continued to be performed by the MP with little technical
support from MSAS).
(c) The PSP has also demonstrated GOM's willingness and capacity to approach complex societal
problems (for instance, the switch from the country's former pro-natalistic policy to the present
population policy and action plan, the willingness to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS epidemic
and reduce STDs, the progress made in improving the status of women, and the success of cost
recovery). It has also helped launch sector institutional reform and has improved sector financing
and management. On the negative side, implementation experience suggests the need to be
cautious about: (i) an over-reliance on timely donors financial contributions; (ii) complex and
overly ambitious project goals; and, particularly, (iii)overly optimistic assumptions concerning
the time needed to reach consensus on politically, socially or religiously sensitive questions. The
integrated sector-wide approach proposed to support this Program addresses these concerns
through an active and comprehensive involvement of all stake-holders, such as donors, care
providers and beneficiaries in the development of the sector's policy and plans. All of these
partners will be involved in the annual sector performance review, planning and budgeting
exercises, and in Program implementation.
(d) Approaches used by donors vary (some prefer to operal:e, hands-on, in relatively small
geographical areas-such as the KfW/GTZ-some are interested in specific program areas-
such as Nutrition in the case of the Spanish Cooperation, or Nutrition, Immunizations, etc., in the
case of UNICEF, while others are more interested in broader i ssues-for instance WHO, the EU
and the French Cooperation). There is, nonetheless, consensus among donors concerning the
need to strengthen health sector capacity in Program implementation, financial management and
donor coordination. However, while donors have been involved actively in the development of
the new sector policy, PDIS, PTHG 1998-2000, etc., and have clearly expressed their
commitment to further support the sector, most of the donors are not able to commit themselves
in a formal manner (regarding their financial input), and have not finalized their work programs
for the next two years. This situation has led to the proposecl project's features which imply a
Program led by GOM, common planning and evaluation mechanisms with donors and NGOs,
strengthening of MSAS implementation and donor coordination capacity (to allow proper
utilization of Government and IDA funds at project effectiveness, with the intention to only
progressively incorporate other donor funding and develop common implementation
arrangements).
(e) Out of the two current projects in the education sector (Projet cd'appui a I 'enseignement general,
Cr. 2706-MR, and Projet d'appui a V'enseignement technique et a la formation professionnelle,
Cr. 2521-MR), the former is successful. The latter was recently analyzed by QAG and continues
under intensified supervision. Similarly with the PSP, these proijects also point to the fact that, in
Mauritania, where the MP coordinates all donor-funded actilvities, the Ministry of National
Education is insufficiently involved in donor coordination and is, generally speaking,



Project Appraisal Document                                       Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                   Page 13 of 24
administratively weak. Considering this situation, the proposed HSIP lays emphasis on the
strengthening of MSAS' institutional capacity, including its donor coordination function.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
GOM has demonstrated its commitment to sector reforms by takingappropriate measures aiming
at improving health care quality and accessibility, by proposing strategies and activities with high cost-
effectiveness ratios, and by decentralizing decision-making at district levels.  GOM  has also: (i)
developed its own policy and planning documents with relatively little support from expatriate
consultants and by involving all intemal and extemal partners, (ii) involved the office of the Prime
Minister, MP, and other ministries in the consensus process set up for health sector program development
and IHSIP design, and last-but not least- (iii) designated the health sector among the country's priority
sectors in its most recent policy documents.
The results of public expenditures reviews carried out in 1995 and 1996 illustrate best GOM's
commitment to the sector and to its policy. GOM has constantly increased the health sector's share of the
public budget; the health sector's budget allocation has been almost fully disbursed, with primary and
secondary care services receiving distinct priority and the recurrent non-salary expenditures receiving
adequate funds. GOM also successfully pursued and committed itself to cost recovery and its extension
to secondary care facilities.
Recently, both Ministers of Planning and Health stated their commitment to the strengthening of
MSAS institutional capacity and to the Plan Directeur (1998-2002) (see Annex 11: Letter of Sector
Policy).
5. Value added of Bank support in this Program:
IDA's first Health and Population Project provided the means for GOM to adopt measures on a
number of critical sector issues (including population policy, staff redeployment, decentralization, sector
financing, cost recovery) and to initiate the development of health infrastructure, human resources,
management capacity, and maintenance services. Nonetheless, PSP will probably reach its objectives
without entirely meeting all of GOM's present needs. This will happen because:
(a) GOM's new objectives for the sector are more ambitious and, in some cases, such as family
planning and nutrition, the consensus-building process has taken more time than originally
anticipated.
(b) GOM's strategy for the sector has changed, as in the cases of: (i) training (where GOM recently
decided to rely upon its own training facilities for medical post-graduate training in general
specialties); (ii) the search for new financing modalities (where the establishment of pre-payment
arrangements is being considered); (iii) the consolidation of service delivery capacity at district
level (where the district hospitals' role is being expanded to cope with logistic difficulties and
minimize patient referral); and (iv) maintenance (where GOM needs to more clearly define its
strategy and find best ways to use private sector's services) .
The proposed IDA project would, therefore, be fully justified as a means to build on PSP's
achievements, and especially to improve overall sector performance and donor collaboration. The sector-
wicle budget support from the credit will respond, in an efficient manner, to new priorities for the sector
and to the need to strengthen its planning and management capacities. Lastly, but very importantly, the
sector-wide integrated approach will put the Government in the driver's seat, and strengthen its donor
coordination function. The credit will be used to ensure funding in high-priority program-areas identified



Project Appraisal Document                                   Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                              Page 14 of 24
in the new sector policy and in the annual plans, for which there is broad consensus among Government,
donors and NGOs.
E: Summary Project Analyses (Detailed assessments are in the project file and in Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4-A;4-B):
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis:        NPV = NA    ERR = NA
[xl Cost-Effectiveness Analysis:
[x] Other (Economic Analysis):
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis: The SIP approach does not lend itself to assessing the rate of
return of the IDA input to the national health sector Program because: (i) the IDA level of funding and
the breakdown by expenditure categories are to be determined on an annual basis; and (ii) IDA funds are
fungible-and will be used as a last source of financing. It is therefore not feasible to prospectively
quantify project costs and benefits. For this reason, an analysis of the soundness of the entire national
sector Program, as presented in the sector policy, was carried out. This analysis has encompassed: (1)
the sector policy (Plan Directeur 1998-2002), recently approved by the Government; (2) the data
presented by MSAS in its PTHG 1998-2000; and (3) available cost-effectiveness ratios for health
interventions in Africa. Furthermore, the consistency of the GOM policy for the sector with the
minimum package of care described in the World Development Report (1993) (WDR) and Better Health
in Africa (BHA) was also analyzed.
The analysis (presented in Annex 4A) demonstrates that 75% of the interventions proposed in the
Health Sector PTHG 1998-2000 are highly cost-effective, i.e., they cost less than US$100 per DALY
saved. This group of interventions comprises infectious disease control and prevention activities. The
remaining 25% of interventions are moderately cost-effective, i.e., cost between US$250 and US$999 per
DALY saved, and belong to activities in the area of non-communicable diseases. None of the
interventions proposed in the PTHG falls under the category of low cost-effectiveness. Furthermore,
these interventions correspond to the priority actions included in the "minimum package of care" of the
WDR and BHA, target the main public health problems of the country, have important externalities and
address very large population groups.
Economic Analysis: An economic analysis (Annex 4B) to assess the soundness of the HSIP was
conducted. It examines matters such as the economic and sectoral conitext, health sector expenditures and
financing, equity, risks, and capacity. It emerges from this analysis that the HSIP is consistent with the
recent CAS and PFP for Mauritania, that public intervention and finaznce of health care are justified, and
that the sector policy framework is adequate. Furthermore, the trends and structure of health sector
expenditures during the last years were promising and clearly support a SIP. Concerning the financial
plan, the Government and beneficiary contributions will increase faster than donor contributions, which
will stabilize towards the end of the period. IDA contribution will ibe small (about 12.5 % of the total
Program cost). The Government will continue to depend on external funding but it will strengthen its
own contribution. Beneficiaries will play an increasingly importani role. Furthermore, the HSIP will
promote equity. The likelihood of identified risks to occur is modest. Finally, there is a strong
commitment to strengthening health sector's management and administrative capacity, and to
substantially decentralizing decision-making to districts, which in turn will lead to better resource
utilization and more rational decision making.



Projeci: Appraisal Document                                  Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                               Page 15 of 24
2. Financial (see Annex 4B): NPV = NA     FRR = NA
The total cost of the five-year health Program is estimated at US$191.6 million, distributed
equally between investment costs (49 %) and recurrent costs (51 %). Government would finance
US$75.8 million (39.5 % of the total). Moreover, through cost recovery, beneficiaries would contribute
US$19.4 million (10 %). Finally, donors (excluding IDA) would finance US$72.5 million, (37.8 %),
while IDA, as the lender of last resort, would finance US$24 million, (12.5 %).
For the sector to receive adequate funding, MSAS budget-as a share of Government's total
budget-is assumed to steadily increase until it reaches 8.5 % in the year 2002. This is a conservative
assumption compared with GOM's formal commitment to attain 10 % by the year 2002. Present budget
execution rates are assumed to be maintained, in the future, at close to 100%.
Projections regarding donor investments are also conservative; they assume that donors' financial
contribution to the sector will be stationary, in real terms, at the level of the year 1995 (IDA contribution
to the present HSIP not included).
Furthermore, cost recovery assumptions made are not substantially different from the present
performance of the cost recovery system. At primary level of care, it is assumed that cost recovery will
apply to 80% of the population (instead of currently 75%), and that an average amount of UMI 18 per
capita and per year will be spent for drugs. At secondary level of care, 80% of the recurrent expenditures
(salaries not included) is assumed to be financed from cost recovery and an average amount of UM73 per
capita and per year to be recovered during the entire period of five years. At tertiary level, 80% of the
non-wage recurrent expenditures are assumed to be financed from cost recovery, and an average amount
of LIM122 per capita and per year to be recovered during all years projected.
Fiscal impact: This Program will not lead to modifications of tax instruments. Nonetheless,
beneficiary contributions towards the cost of the Program will be substantial. However, as described
above, the cost and affordability of services in the public sector will be constantly monitored. Cost
recovery for drugs will continue along the lines of the present arrangement which proved to function well
and was able to provide drugs of good quality at affordable prices. The indigent population will also
continue to be protected. Affordability of services and consumers' willingness to pay will be constantly
monitored, aiming to make the under-served groups the gainers of this Program. During the five years of
the sector's Program, the Government will better manage donor inputs (which are expected to remain
important but to slightly decline toward the end of the period) and beneficiaries will be increasingly
involved in decision-making and in financial support to the sector. Decentralization will also play a
substantial role in efficiency gains and a more rational sector development.
3. Technical:
The policy for the health sector is technically sound. The issues of quality, access and equity are
addressed systematically. The recent CAS, which was the result of a broad participatory process, also
emphasizes poverty reduction as the main objective for the country and for its collaboration with the
World Bank, and stresses the importance of the health sector. As the second Plan Directeur continues
the policy launched by GOM in 1991, there is also ample evidence that the sector policy is being
consistently applied, is appropriate for the country, and has started to have an impact on the health status.
This is evidenced by all three PERs carried out in 1995 and 1996, which have demonstrated regular
improvement in financial resources (contributed by GOM, donors and beneficiaries), and rational use of
resources (emphasis on primary and secondary care, right ratios between investment and recurrent
expenditures, and between recurrent and recurrent non-salary expenditures, a continuous effort to
decentralize service delivery and decision-making, etc.). As mentioned in Annex 4 A, 75% of health



Project Appraisal Document                                   Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                              Page 16 of 24
interventions proposed for the Program 1998-2002 fall in the category of high cost-effective interventions
and the remaining 25% in the medium cost-effective category. Other documents (e.g., PTHG 1998-2000
and PDIS) show that, in regard to health infrastructure development, GOM will continue to strengthen
health delivery capacity at the outreach. While the new Program is not proposing radical changes to the
sound process of sector restructuring and reform started in 1991, it does contain innovations. For
instance: (i) in sector financing by promoting the set up of pre-payment arrangements, (ii) in training of
health providers, hereunder, local training to specialize general practitioners is now carried out in
Mauritania, (while under-graduate medical training will continue to take place abroad); (iii) in health care
delivery, by the set up of self-sufficient secondary hospitals to minimize referral. All main health status
problems, for which cost-effective interventions are available, are also systematically addressed e.g.:
sexually transmitted diseases and HIV/AIDS; family planning; nutrition, IEC and communicable
diseases.
4. Institutional:
(a) Executing agencies: MSAS will be the HSIP executing agency. All of MSAS directorates and
services and the DRASSs will be involved as appropriate, as well as all MSAS'spartenaires au
developpement. Regarding the demographic and health survey and the support to population
census, these two rather specialized activities will be entrusted to ONS and FNUAP respectively.
While MSAS has demonstrated its capacity to develop and pursue a sound sector policy, to date it
has only managed GOM's recurrent non-wage budget allocation for the sector (the budget
allocation for salaries is managed by MF and the investment budget contributed by donors and
executed by various project units is managed by MP). Hence, the HSIP emphasis on health
sector capacity building and the new management arrangements being proposed.
(b) Program management: The management of the Program will rely upon two substantially
strengthened MSAS units (i.e., Direction des affaires administratives et financieres-DAAF-
and Direction de la planification, de la cooperation et de la statistique-DPCS) and a newly
created unit (i.e. Direction de gestion des investissements-I)GI). This last directorate will be in
charge of all procurement operations, and of the financial management and accounting of all
investment funds channeled through MSAS.   The th[ree units will manage Program
implementation under the supervision of the Minister and Secretary General and with the support
of all MSAS directorates and DRASSs.
The main instrument used for Program management will be the annual Program review
and planning exercise which will take place towards the end of each fiscal year. With this
opportunity, GOM will present to donors and NGOs: (i) a progress report on the performance and
achievements during the respective FY, and (ii) an updated version of the PTHG (the first year of
which will be a detailed activity plan for the respective year). These documents will mention all
activities planned to take place in the health sector and their source of financing. The IDA
financed activities will be identified, every year, based on the proposals contained in the PTHG.
These activities will be discussed with all partners, and, after receiving IDA agreement, will be
used to develop annual Procurement and Disbursement Plans.
While the MP will retain its donor coordination function, it is also being proposed to
transfer the more technical, Program-specific tasks to MSAS, and to strengthen the collaboration between
MSAS and MP. Several other arrangements to allow the participation of other sectors and to coordinate
MSAS various services are also proposed (e.g., Sector Policy Implementation Board and Program
Management Committee. See also paragraph C4). Moreover, the PRCI will be implemented, key
positions for successful Program implementation have been identified, job descriptions written and GOM
has committed itself to staff these positions in a phased manner. MSAS will also be supported with



Project Appraisal Document                                       Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                   Page 17 of 24
equipment, computers, and technical assistance. By pursuing the decentralization of decision-making,
district staff will increasingly become involved in Program execution. Similarly, donors and NGOs,
which have already participated in the development of the new sector policy, will increase their role in
the implementation of the Program. It is anticipated that GOM will entrust them with the management of
specific Program components (e.g., WHO with the tropical disease program and sector policy matters,
UNICEF with the nutrition program, UNFPA with the family planning program), as it has already been
decided for the demographic and health survey, and in the case of population census activities which will
be executed by ONS and FNUAP.
5. Social:
The Program will have a positive social impact, since it will help achieve the ultimate objective
of improving the health status and well-being of the population of one of the poorest countries in Africa.
The Program will also promote equity as: (i) it will rely upon strategies which positively discriminate the
rural population, women and children; (ii) it will assure the provision of good quality health care services
to the majority of the population, reaching out to remote geographical areas; (iii) it will use best cost-
effective interventions; and (iv) it will support the development of primary care and of effective first
referral services which will be able to address more than 90% of health conditions. Information
camipaigns, grassroot-level actions, and user involvement in the management of health facilities and
beneficiary assessments will reinforce the social acceptability of the Program.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category        [ I A   [ B    [x] C
This  is a category  C  project, since  no  environmental risks  are  foreseen.   Any
conistruction/rehabilitation of buildings will be done in accordance with acceptable standards. Promotion
of hygiene will have a positive environmental impact. There would be no displacement of people.
Measure to ensure appropriate disposal of hospital waste will be taken with the opportunity of civil
works.
7. Participatory approach:
(a) Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: Primary beneficiaries are already involved
in health matters, as they: (i) contribute to the financing of recurrent costs in health facilities at
all levels (primary, secondary and tertiary); and (ii) participate in the decisions made regarding
the use of resources generated through cost recovery. Beneficiary assessments have also been
carried out with the opportunity of the current IDA credit to the health sector, and at the
preparation stage of the newly-proposed Program. In Mauritania, there is also a genuine
commitment to  decentralization.   District elected  leaders (walis) and  district health
administrations (DRASS) can already make a large array of decisions (regarding, for instance,
the management of financial and personnel resources in their respective geographical areas),
benefit from specific budget allocations from the public budget, and retain locally the funds
generated through cost recovery. They have been consulted with the opportunity of the
evaluation of the first sector policy and the launching of the new sector policy which further
pursues decentralization. This implies institutional strengthening and a more discretion to
DRASSs, more involvement of political and administrative leaders in health matters at wilaya
level, and more community and beneficiary involvement (by giving more authority to the
Comites de developpement socio-sanitaire and Comites de gestion). The PTHG 1998-2000 was
prepared based largely on proposals made by district staff. The selection of sites for new health
services and for rehabilitation works has been made on the basis of criteria of accessibility and
health needs from the lists of requests submitted by local health administration (which also



Project Appraisal Document                                     Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                 Page 18 of 24
included a signed commitment of the respective communities to effectively contribute to the
respective works).
(b) Other key stake-holders:  Both the recently-discussed Country Assistance Strategy for
Mauritania-as well as the preparation of the new sector policy and of the proposed Program-
have been carried out in a participatory manner, and with the involvement of beneficiaries, local
health staff, district political leaders, NGOs, and donors. From the central level, the Prime
Minister's office was represented and all relevant other sectors have been involved. The MP and
the Secretariat d'Etat a la condition feminine were particularly active.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Program proposed by GOM for the health sector for the period 1998-2002 is built on and
develops further the policy for the health sector launched in the early '90s under the Plan Directeur 1991-
1995/6 (and supported by the first IDA credit to the health sector). The 1995-96 PER conducted by the
World Bank, as well as two other health expenditures analyses carried out during Program preparation,
have provided evidence that the GOM's health policy has indeed been implemented, that resources have
been used in accordance with its requirements, and that the financirng of the sector has steadily been
improved. It is worth quoting in this regard that: (i) the share of recurrent health expenditures of total
recurrent expenditures has increased from about 5.3% in 1993 to 6.40/%1 in 1996; (ii) salaries have been
maintained at less than 65% of the recurrent health budget; (iii) total expenditures for primary and
secondary care have accounted for more than 40% of total health expenditures; (iv) recurrent budget
execution has been about 100%; (v) donor funding and expenditures have steadily increased; (vi) cost
recovery for drugs and services has been remarkably well implemented; (vii) allocations for districts,
specifically mentioned in the budget, have been increased by 6% annually; and (viii) the decentralization
policy has been pursued. Important consensus meetings (e.g., Journees de reflexion sous la Khaima in
1995), and agreements reached during the discussions of the Country Assistance Strategy have also
demonstrated GOM's commitment to reduce poverty and to further develop social sectors. At the
launching of the Plan Directeur 1998-2002, GOM committed itself to increase the share of the health
sector budget to 10% by the year 2002, and demonstrated its willingness to hold a transparent dialogue
with donors, NGOs, other sectors and beneficiaries. Beneficiary assessments carried out under the
current IDA credit and the preparation work for the proposed credit also show grass-root interest in
GOM's objectives for the social sectors, including the policy goal of developing affordable, good quality,
primary health services. The participation of donors and NGOs in Program preparation and execution
will also contribute to Program sustainability. Consultants and private contractors will conduct studies,
and execute construction and rehabilitation works. IDA financing amounts to US$24 million and
represents about 12.5% of the Program's total cost. During the first years of the Program, IDA
contribution will be used, with priority, to strengthen the health sector's institutional capacity (N.B. IDA
funds will not be used for civil servants' salaries). It is expected that IDA financing will decline towards
the end of the Program, as the Government takes on an increasing share of Program financing. However,
in spite of the Government's commitment to increasing levels of funding for the sector, and of
foreseeable economic growth, external support will continue to be necessary to sustain health and other
social services for some years after the end of the Program.
'Not including the "depenses communes".



Project Appraisal Document                                              Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Maurtania                                                                              Page 19 of 24
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1).
Risk                        Risk              Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Development
Objective"
1. Cultural and behavioral "barriers" (e.g., cultural,    N    *  Education reforms, already being
lack of knowledge, costs) may prevent increased             implemented, will increase literacy levels.
utilization of services.                                 *  The Secretariat d'Etat a la condition feminine
(SECF), has established Centres de promotion
feminine (CPF) at district level (wilayas), and
revenue-generating microprojects with a
functional alphabetization program to increase
literacy and awareness at grass-root level.
*  Cost of health services will be monitored, and
service affordability and consumer satisfaction
with services will be periodically assessed.
2. Low literacy levels may have an adverse effect  N    *  GOM is committed to increasing public
on health status and on services utilization.               spending for education.
*  Education sector reforns which started in 1987
will expand access to primary education,
improve the quality of primary and secondary
education, reduce illiteracy, and strengthen
job-oriented vocational training; these reforms
will be continued and further strengthened.
3. Problems of poor access to water, sanitation, and    M    *  Implementation of rainfed Natural Resources
electricity may not be solved and may maintain              Project (with IDA support).
causes of ill health.                                    *  Review of Policies, Strategies, and Traditional
Energy Sector Programs (RPTES) will build
local capacity through a mix of policy and
operational support to Traditional Energy
Sector.
* Continuation of IDA and other donors' support
to GOM to assist sound investment programs
for water, sanitation, and electricity, and
increased private sector investment.
4. Inadequate weaning foods and lack of nutrition  N    *  IEC program will be strengthened to raise
education may slow down the improvement of                  awareness as to the benefits of health services,
health status.                                              with emphasis on prevention and nutrition.
*  A free standing nutrition project is also being
developed to support nutrition activities in
other sectors than health.



Project Appraisal Document                                             Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                            Page 20 of 24
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
1. Poor economic performance may hinder GOM's    M    *  Promotion of strong supply response from the
capability to implement its overall development             private sector.
plan and provide adequate funding to social sectors.    *  Facilitation of access to services and credits.
* Exploitaticin of new market opportunities.
* Development of financial intermediation,
lower production costs, and increased private
sector participation in the delivery of public
services.
* Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) to upgrade
diversity and raise the technological base in the
rural, fisheries, mining, and public utility
sectors.
*  Ongoing Public Resource Management Credit
(FY 1996) and capacity building programs will
support efforts to an efficient market oriented
public sector apparatus.
*  Fiscal decentralization will improve economic
management and public expenditure
management.
2. Poor geographic accessibility may hinder service    N    *  Health post network will be expanded,
utilization.                                                equipped and staffed.
* Selective health centers will be rehabilitated
and upgraded, and the minimum package of
services revised, thereby reducing the need for
referrals.
*  Road netwoirk will be further extended, with
better availability of transportation.
3. Lack of policy framework to enhance social      M    *  Formulation and endorsement of new policies
action.                                                    for social issues will be carried out and
regularly monitored, so that the Social Affairs
Directorate of MSAS will accomplish its
mandate.
* Good record in regard to commitment to social
sectors will be maintained by including
regularly the social issues in the dialogue with
the World Bank and donors.
4. The MSAS's weak capacity to implement the       M    *  Implementation of the PRCI will be closely
program may cause delays.                                   monitored.
* SIP approach will allow the Program to be
adjusted to new needs, changes in performance
and variations in sector's resources.
* Main donors to the sector are also committed
to improve health sector administrative
performance.
*  Annual sector performance reviews will take
place.
5. Donor fatigue may lead to decrease in support.  M    *  Increased donor coordination in MSAS (in
addition to MP efforts).
* Intensified donor participation in all aspects of
planning and imanagement of health programs.



Project Appraisal Document                                        Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                      Page 21 of 24
Overall Risk Rating:                            M    * Proper project planning, and strengthened
The overall risk that the Program could fail to         supervision at all levels during Program
achieve its development objectives is rated as         implementation will ensure that bottlenecks are
modest.                                                recognized and corrected in a timely manner,
thereby facilitating the achievement of
Program objectives
* SIP mechanisms of annual progress review,
planning and budgeting will allow to adapt to
unforeseeable changes and cope with
contingencies.
Risk Rating: H = High Risk; S = Substantial Risk; M = Modest Risk; N = Negligible or Low Risk.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Female genital mutilation (FGM) is still practiced in Mauritania and the Board has made clear its
concern regarding this issue in Africa. The matter has been discussed, both with MSAS and with the
Secretariat d'etat a la condition feminine.   According to the information provided by GOM,
"Notwithstanding the fact that genital mutilation in Mauritania affects relatively less women's health than
is the case in other Sub-Saharan African Countries (as it concerns smaller population groups and uses less
traumatic techniques) this issue is already on the political agenda and was addressed recently -inter alia-
at a national seminar organized by GOM and UNDP". A national NGO (L 'Association Mauritanienne
pour la Promotion de la Famille) is active in this area, has held a national consultation (on the FGM and
other "pratiques nefastes 'a la sante de la femme") in November 1997, and it is currently working, in
close collaboration with the SECF, to reach consensus and to elaborate an action plan. As a condition for
Negotiations, the Government has stated, in its Letter of Sector Policy, its commitment to reduce the
frequence with which FGM is practiced and to address the FGM's detrimental effects on the health of
women.  The HSIP will support the implementation of specific measures to reduce the health
consequences of FGM and educate the user of health services.
There is also concern regarding the infectious diseases morbidity and, in particular, with the
water and/or vector borne disease epidemic (schistosomiasis, malaria, hepatitis) which might increase
further as a result of civil works carried out on Senegal river. This issue was specifically discussed with
Government and donors and, as a result, a task force, led by WHO, was set up. The current IDA financed
project has supported activities in this area, and the GOM policy for the health sector for the next five
years continues to address the issue. HSIP will finance activities related to: (i) the set up of an effective
diisease surveillance system, (ii) supervision work and strengthening of district teams to act promptly in
case of epidemic, (iii) procurement of specific drugs for case management and chemoprophylaxis and
(iv) IEC. More generally, the extension of the health delivery system, in particular at the primary health
care level, improvements in the quality of services and the emphasis on prevention should also mitigate
thie effects of the epidemic and reduce disease incidence. Furthermore, Mauritania coordinates its
infectious disease activities with the other two countries (Senegal and Mali).
Both issues were re-analyzed with the opportunity of technical discussions held during
N'egotiations. Actions foreseen in the PTHG and their respective cost estimates for the components
dealing with reproductive health (and in particular with FGM) and with infectious diseases have been
reconsidered and the credit increased by US$2.6 million. With the same opportunity GOM restated its
commitment to reduce the "pratiques nefastes a la sante' de lafemme" and its concern with reproductive
health, tuberculoses, water-borne diseases, and the strengthening of sector capacity.



Project Appraisal Document                                 Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                            Page 22 of 24
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Conditions:
As conditions of Negotiations,
(a) the Government has transmitted to IDA the following documents, which were discussed and
agreed upon at Appraisal:
(1) A signed Letter of Health Sector Policy stating (i) GOM commitment to finance the health
sector from its own resources, donor funds and beneficiaries' contributions; (ii) the main
thrusts of the health sector policy and the priority areas to be protected in case of unexpected
financial stringency; (iii) GOM commitment to reduce the practice of female genital
mutilation; and presenting (iv) a matrix of monitoring indicators for the Program;
(2) The final versions the PDIS 1998-2002 and of the Health Sector PTHG 1998-2000;
(3) An outline of the Program Implementation Manual (including an Implementation Plan and
the model of the bidding document to be used for national competitive bidding for goods and
civil works);
(4) A document describing the organizational changes at the MSAS (including the creation of
the Direction de gestion des investissements and stating the functions to be carried out by
DPCS, DGI, and DAAF);
(5) The list of posts of the DPCS, DAAF, DGI and DPM;
(6) The Procurement plan for IDA financed activities for 1998-1999;
(7) The terms of reference and the consultant contract for a Study on the cost recovery in the
health sector.
(b) The Government has appointed the staff in charge of the Procurement unit and of the Accounting
unit at the DGI, and staffed the director posts at the DP'CS, DAAF and DGI, in a manner
acceptable to IDA.
As conditions of credit effectiveness, the Government wouldl:
(1) Deposit into the project account the initial amount of Government counterpart funds for the
first year of the Program;
(2) Submit the final version, acceptable to IDA, of the MEP (program implementation manual)
(3) Submit the approved PRCI for 1998-2002;
(4) Appoint an independent auditor acceptable to IDA;
(5) Staff, in a manner acceptable to IDA, two accountant posts and the post of chief procurement
officer at DGI, an additional accountant post at the I)AAF, and appoint the directors of
DAAF, DGI and DPCS.
(6) Install a computerized financial monitoring system at the DGI and the DAAF.
(7) Submit to IDA bidding documents for works and goods to be purchased in 1998 using IDA
funds.



Project Appraisal Document                                   Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Cojntry: Mauritania                                                              Page 23 of 24
2. Legal covenants:
(1) The Letter of sector policy and its monitoring and evaluation indicators (Annex 11 of the
PAD), as well as the Plan Directeur 1998-2002 will guide all sector activities to be developed
during the period 1998-2002.
(2) MSAS will present and discuss with donors and IDA, by October 31 of each year, a progress
report on the first three quarters of the respective fiscal year and a proposal for a Annual
Operational Plan (POAS) and budget for the health sector for the next fiscal year. Upon
reaching agreement on these documents, the POAS will constitute the first year of the
respective PTHG and will be used to guide MSAS, DRASSs and donors work in the sector.
(3) By the end of each year, MSAS will discuss and agree with IDA, which activities of the
POAS for the next fiscal year will be funded from the proceeds of the project and will
develop an annual procurement plan which will encompass all IDA funded activities for the
respective fiscal year.
(4) Annually, Government will review the progress made in the implementation of the PRCI
(Institutional Strengthening Plan), the PDIS (Health Infrastructures Development Plan) and
the PDHR (Human Resources Development Plan), and will update and implement these
plans.
(5) By 31 October 1999, MSAS will develop a Maintenance strategy for the public health sector
and will implement it during the Program with support from the private sector, donors and
IDA.
(6) Annually, Government will make available adequate counterpart funds.
(7) During the year 2000, Govemment will carry out a mid-term review of the Health Sector
Investment Project and of its Program.
(8) During the year 1999 and 2001, Government will carry out beneficiary assessments to
evaluate consumer satisfaction with Program implementation and to identify measures to
adapt the health sector's Program to consumer needs.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of Program implementation. [x] Not applicable.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of Program implementation.
[ ] The Program Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality. (to be discussed at Appraisal; NB It will be part of the Program Implementation
Manual).
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under credit conditions (Section G):



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Project Tifle: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                                   Page 24 of 24
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x ] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader                                     Sergiu Luculescu
Sector Managers                                     Ok Pannenborg / Nicholas Burnett
Country Director                                    Hasan Tuluy



Project Appraisal Document                                           Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Maurtania                                                                  Annex 1- Page 1 of 5
Annex 1
Program Design Summary
Narrative Summary          Key Performance            Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Indicators               Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                    (Goal to Bank Mission)
Poverty reduction                                                            * GOM will continue to
through:                                                                     implement the designed
Economic and Financial
(1) rapid broad-based    1.1. Decrease urban         1.1.1. Integrated       Recovery Program,
growth and income        unemployment (currently     Household Study (to be   especially in the major
generation;              26%; 20% in 2000, 15% in    repeated in 2002).      sectors like agriculture,
2002).                                             fisheries, mining,
banking, public
(2) increase in human   2.1. Increase adult literacy  2.1.1. Annual (and     enterprises, insurance,
capital;                (currently 31%; 40% in 2000, other) education sector   education, and health.
60% in 2002).              reports.                * Private sector
involvement will be
2.1.2. Same as (1.1.1.)   enhanced.
above.                 * GOM's debt burden
will be addressed.
(3) interventions targeted   3.1. Increase vaccination  3.1.1. same as (1.1.1.)    * World prices for
to the vulnerable groups;  coverage (currently 65% for   above.              principle exports like
infants; 75% in 2000, 85% in                       iron ore and fisheries
2002).                                              will not decrease
markedly.
(4) strengthening the   4.1. Increase accessibility to   4.1.1. Same as (1.1.11.)    * Intemational aid
capacity to design and  water and electricity        above.                  dependency will
deliver pro-poor, pro-  (currently 50%; 60% in 2000,                        decrease.
growth policies; and     75% in 2002).                                      * No extreme adverse
climatic conditions
(5) Strengthening of     5.1. Maintain expenditures    5.1.1. Monitor public    (draught) will occur.
sociaLI sectors.        for primary and secondary    expenditure in the health  In the event that
health care at the levels for    sector.            economic performance
1995 (i.e. at least 40% of total                   improves, or at least
expenditures).              5.1.2. Set up          remains satisfactory, this
computerized financial   program should
monitoring system,     contribute markedly to
allowing monitoring by  the CAS goal of
level and program      "Poverty Reduction",
component.             which coincides with the
Bank Mission of
"Poverty Alleviation."



Project Appraisal Document                                            Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                   Annex 1 - Page 2 of 5
Program Development                                                           (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
General objective: To    1. Increase health facilities  1.1. Routine reporting    * The economic
support health sector    utilization rates (currently  system.                performance will
development thus         60%; 70% in 2000, 80% in                             improve, or at least will
contributing to the      2002).                                               continue at the same
improvement of health                                                         level.
status by the provision of  2. Reduce Infant Mortality    2.1. Special        * The main
accessible and quality   Rate (currently 118/1000;    demographic studies.    employment/ income
health services.         95/1 000 in 2000, 80/1000 in                         generating sectors of the
2002).                                               economy will be
expanded to
3. Reduce Underfive         3.1. Same as (2.1.)      accommodate an
Mortality Rate (currently   above.                   increasingly healthier
182/1000; 140/1000 in 2000,                          work force.
90/1000 in 2002).                                    * The population
growth rate and rural-
4. Reduce Total Fertility   4.1. Same as (2.1.)      urban migration will
Rate (currently 6.5; 6.0 in  above.                  decline.
2000, 5.5 in 2002).                                  * Political climate
facilitating the
implementation of sector
policy will remain
stable.
* Expansion of other
social services like
education, transport,
communications, water,
and electricity will
continue.
* Poverty alleviation
programs and activities
will be targeted to
vulnerable groups and
geographic areas.
Outputs:                                                                      (Outputs to Objective)
1. Improve health        1.1. Develop health facilities   1.1.1. Annual sector  * Increased utilization
services quality and     according to PDIS.           report on PDIS.         of improved, expanded
coverage;                                                                     services in spite of
1.2. Increase number of     1.2.1. Routine reporting   "barriers" (e.g. cultural,
health posts fully functional   system.              lack of knowledge, and
and supervised (currently                            costs).
208; 350 in 2000, 443 in     1.2.2. Health sector    * Household food
2002).                      reports.                 security will improve.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country:: Mauritania                                                                        Annex 1 - Page 3 of 5
1.3. Increase primary health    1.3.1. Same as (1.2.2.)    * The problem of
care coverage, i.e.,          above.                    inadequate weaning
geographical accessibility                              foods will be addressed.
less than five kilometers from                          * Problems associated
health center or health post                            with Nutrition Education
(currently 65%; 75% in 2000,                            will be addressed.
80% in 2002).                                           * Adult literacy will
increase.
1.4. Increase consumer        1.4.1. Beneficiary        * Accessibility to water,
satisfaction with health      assessment survey         sanitation and electricity
services (from qualitative    (repeat in 2000 and       will increase.
assessment in Beneficiary     2002).
Assessment Study).
2. Improve health sector's  2.1. Increase (or at least    2.1.1. Budget and PER
financing and              maintain) donor financing of   analyses.
performance;               the health sector (at least, in
constant prices, at the level of
1995).
2.2. Increase percentage share  2.2.1. Same as (2.1.1.)
of recurrent budget for health  above.
(currently 6.5%; 7.5% in 2000,
8.5% by 2002).
2.3. Extend cost recovery to    2.3.1. Same as (1.2.1.)
secondary health facilities (by  above.
2000).
3. Mitigate the effects of   3.1. Increase contraceptive  3.1.1. Routine reporting
major public health        prevalence rate (currently     system..
problems; and              2.5%; 5% in 2000, 10% by
2002).
3.2. Increase antenatal care  3.2.1. Same as (3.1.1.)
rates (currently 35%; 50% in   above.
2000, 75% by 2002).
3.3. Increase postnatal care  3.3.1. Same as (3.1.1.)
rates (currently 22%; 40% in   above
2000, 60% by 2002).
3.4. Decrease under-five      3.4.1. Nutrition surveys
malnutrition rates (currently   (in 2000 and 2002).
30%; 25% in 2000, 15% in
2002).



Project Appraisal Document                                              Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                      Annex 1 - Page 4 of 5
4. Promote social action    4.1. Formulate and endorse   4.1.1. Policy document.
and create an environment policy for social action
conducive to health.      (currently none; available in
2000, revised by 2002).
4.2. Number of studies      4.2.1. Reports available.
conducted on underserved
groups (at least one
annually).
4.3. Formulate and          4.3.1. IEC reports.
disseminate IEC messages to
raise demand for modem
contraception (currently
none).
Program                                                                        (Components to Outputs)
Components/Sub-
components: (see Annex
2 for Program
description)                                          1. 1. 1. Budget and PER   * Geographic
analyses.                accessibility will start
I. Improve health services  US$86.4 million                                     improving through the
quality and coverage.                                                          extension of roads and
availability of
1.1. Build 235 health                                                          transportation.
posts (153 by IDA).                                                             * Donor dependency will
decrease, lessening the
1.2. Equip 263 health                                                          risk of donor fatigue.
posts.                                                                          * Domestic resources
will increase.
1.3. Upgrade 12 health                                                         e Capacity of GOM to
centers from grade B to                                                        implement overall
grade A.                                                                        economic plan will
improve.
I.4. Upgrade 14 health                                                          * Needed policy changes
posts to grade B health                                                        will be effected.
centers.                                                                        * Programs and activities
in related sectors will be
1.5. Rehabilitate 5 health                                                     implemented
centers grade A, 14 health                                                     concurrently.
centers type B, and 52
health posts.
1.6. Rehabilitate and
strengthen performance
of all 11 district hospitals.



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                               Annex 1 - Page 5 of 5
II. Improve health          US$37.4 million
sector's financing and
performance.
11.1. Strengthen the                                        I. 1.1. Same as (I. 1. 1.)
management, planning,                                       above.
and administrative
performance of MSAS.
11.2. Decentralize.
11.3. Improve health
sector financing.
III. Mitigate the effects of US$56.5 million
major public health
problems.
111. 1. Integrated                                          111. 1.1. Same as (I. 1. 1.)
Management of                                               above.
Childhood Illnesses.
III.2. Extended antenatal,
delivery, and postnatal
Care.
III.3. Common ailments
(inciluding communicable
diseases control).
111.4. Information,
Education, and
Communication.
IV. Promote social action   US$11.3 million                 IV.1.1. Same as (I.1.1.)
and create an environment                                   above.
conducive to health.
IV. 1. Situational analysis.
IV.2. Policy formulation.
IV.3. Information,
Education, and
Comnmunication.






Project Appraisal Document                                   Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                         Annex 2A - Page I of 5
Annex 2A
Detailed Program Description
Overall health sector Program priorities and their estimated costs are presented, respectively, in
the Plan Directeur 1998-2002 and the PTHG 1998-2000. The Plan Directeur 1998-2002 comprises four
mnajor objectives: (i) improving the quality and coverage of health services at primary and referral levels;
(ii) strengthening the performance of health sector resource planning and management; (iii) mitigating the
effects major public health problems; and (iv) creating an environment conducive to the promotion of
health and social action. The PTHG comprises plans for each of the Ministry-level directorates and
services, for the Etablissements autonomes (i.e., tertiary care facilities), as well as comprehensive plans
for all twelve regions. Another document, recently discussed and agreed upon by donors and NGOs, is
the PDIS 1998-2002. Based on this plan, besides the needs in civil works, equipment and human
resources needs are estimated, and respective activities planned.
Together, these documents provide the framework within which annual operational plans will be
developed. Towards the end of each fiscal year, the Government will present, at an open meeting with
donors and NGOs, a progress report on the activities conducted during the respective year, and a proposal
ifor an activity plan and budget for the next fiscal year. At this meeting, GOM, donors and NGOs will
reach an agreement on future activities and their sources of financing, thereby allowing IDA to perform
iits lender of last resort function and to identify which activities will receive financial support from the
proposed credit. In order to qualify for IDA support, activities should be: (i) consistent with the health
sector policy; (ii) included in both the PTHG 1998-2000, and the proposed Annual Operational Plan; (iii)
considered relevant and timely by the other donors and NGOs; and (iv) unfunded by GOM, beneficiaries,
or donors. This sub-set of the activities (derived from the PTHG 1998-2000, and the Annual Operational
Plan) will constitute the Activity plan for IDA financing for the respective fiscal year (based on which an
IDA Procurement and disbursement plan will be developed).
Program Component 1: Improve health services quality and coverage
US$86.4 million
Given Mauritania's specific geographical conditions, inadequate transportation infrastructure,
and lack of communications, the Program emphasizes health facilities capable of treating a high
proportion of cases, thereby significantly reducing the referral to more specialized levels and abroad. The
overall Program aims to ensure the availability and financial accessibility of quality primary and referral
health services for at least 80% of the population and to increase utilization rates to 80%.
This component comprises the following elements:
1) Expansion of health service coverage, with specific objectives for primary, secondary and tertiary
services;
2) Improvement of health services performance, which includes staffing, equipping & maintenance,
supply of essential drugs;
3) Improvement of health facility utilization rates; and
4) Quality assurance measures.



Project Appraisal Document                                       Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                             Annex 2A - Page 2 of 5
Over the period 1998-2002, the Program seeks to increase coverage through: (i) construction
and/or refurbishing of 148 health posts, 17 Category B health centers and 6 Category A health centers;
(ii) upgrading of 14 health posts to Category B health centers and 10 Category B health centers to
Category A health centers, along with the provision of qualified staff and equipment for general surgery;
and (iii) construction of I new district hospital and renovation of 7 other district hospitals.
During the first eighteen months, the project will finance alrchitectural studies and the preparation
of tendering documents for all civil works. IDA will also finance construction of I CSA, 3 CSB, and
replacement of 19 health posts. The Program will also provide medical equipment and transport for 38
health posts constructed with French Cooperation financing.
Diagnostic capabilities will be introduced at primary level and strengthened at all referral levels.
Surgical capabilities will be made available at all district hospitals. Staff from the tertiary hospital in
Nouakchott will also perform supervision in the field and regularly take care of more complex cases by
carrying out regular visits to district hospitals; the IDA credit will finance these visits.
Concurrently with the geographical extension of services, ithe Program will support improvement
of the quality of services through : (i) development of norms and standards comprising a clear description
of functions to be performed by each health facility category (minimum package of care); (ii)
implementation of a human resources development plan to ensure appropriate staffing, training, and
supervision of health personnel; (iii) continued improvement of systems for supplying essential drugs at
the primary level and introduction of adequate drug supply systemrs at the referral level; and (iv) proper
maintenance and health facility hygiene.
Program preparation activities have already defined minimum packages of activities by level of
services, and during annual planning process these packages will be reviewed. Program preparation
funds are also financing a human resources development plan, and the credit has tentatively identified as
a priority area for support the newly created institute for specialized care (emphasizing training in general
surgery) and the existing nurse training school. Refurbishment of :facilities and equipment, development
of a more coherent curriculum, and development of pedagogical skills are envisioned in the first eighteen
months.
Continuing on the initial IDA project efforts to strengthen drug supply systems, the new credit
will initially support ministry efforts to extend the cost recovery system to the district hospital level. The
project has tentatively identified support for consultant services to design the system and develop the
requisite management and treatment supports; initial stocks of drugs for the hospitals will also be
purchased.
Program Component 2: Improve health sector's financing and performance
US$37.4 million
Over the next five years, the Government is committed to strengthen health sector financing by:
(1) increasing health's share of the total public budget to 10%; (2) expanding cost recovery to secondary
health care level (primary and tertiary care facilities already recover costs for drugs and services); (3)
mobilizing private resources; and (4) increasing donor funding. Combined with implementation of an
ambitious infrastructure development program  and  planned  iimprovements in human  resource
development, drug supply, and facilities maintenance, MSAS capabilities to plan and manage its
resources will be severely tested .



Project Appraisal Document                                     Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                           Annex 2A - Page 3 of 5
This component comprises the following elements:
(i) Strengthening of planning, management, and administrative performance of the MSAS;
(ii) Decentralization of decision-making to districts and health facilities;
(iii) Strengthening of the coordination of external (donors and NGOs) and internal partners;
(iv) Improvement of health sector financing including an increase of GOM's contribution, donor
funding, and community and beneficiary participation (and also strengthening of community and
beneficiary participation in management decisions concerning Program priorities and resource
allocation);
(v) Implementation of an effective health information system and of an epidemic surveillance system
at central and district levels; and
(vi) Improvement of health personnel management.
Over the initial 18 month period, the Program will emphasize the strengthening of central and
regional-level planning and management capabilities.  At central level, the credit will finance
refurbishment, equipment, and transport for the key directorates of Planning (DPCS), and Finance and
Administration (DAAF). Key additional posts for each of these directorates have been identified and job
descriptions prepared; the project will not finance salary costs of civil servants to be redeployed or
recruited. However, the proceeds of the IDA credit could be used for consultants to fill vacant posts,
should civil servants could not be recruited or redeployed for some of the incremental positions. The
project has also tentatively identified additional funding for technical support in the areas of planning,
management information systems; financial management; tendering; and internal and external audits.
In particular, during the initial phase of Program implementation, the project will continue to
finance strengthening of the PTHG process (introduced during preparation), the coordination of donor
financing and the interventions of other sectors, and the organization of the annual sector review. More
efficient mechanisms for donor coordination will increase donor participation in the achievement of the
sector policy; these mechanisms will include adoption of national norms and standards (e.g., equipment,
infrastructure, staffing, etc.) for health service development, closer monitoring of donor funded activities,
and the organization of regular meetings with donors and NGOs. The Program will also address staff
performance by improving personnel management, monitoring staff performance, establishing an
equitable incentive/disincentive scheme to reward good performance, and decentralizing human resources
management to districts
At the regional level, the overall Program aims to improve regional management and
administration of the DRASS, to increase the involvement of political and administrative leaders (Walis)
in health matters at wilaya level, and to strengthen community and beneficiary involvement (by giving
more authority to the Comites de Developpement Socio-Sanitaire and to theComites de Gestion). Among
the tasks to be decentralized are: drug logistics and stock management (to be performed by the Regional
Pharmaceutical Depots); human resources management (including deployment and re-deployment of
health personnel; training and supervision); and planning and budgeting (using resources from cost
recovery, the public sector's budget and donor contributions).
The Program will initially support the District Health Teams--composed of DRASS staff, district
hospital directors, and Moughata chief medical officers--by financing the operating costs associated with
the newly decentralized tasks. Subsequently, priority areas identified by region during the three-year



Project Appraisal Document                                       Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                             Annex 2A - Page 4 of 5
planning process will provide the basis for annual funding.
Program Component 3: Mitigate the effects of major public health problems
US$56.5 million
The principal public health problems included in the overall Program for the period 1998-2002
comprise:
(a) infant and child mortality, where the Program would reduce the IMR from the current 118/1,000
live births to 80/1,000 in the year 2002 and the under-five mortality rate from the current
182/1,000 to 90/1,000 in 2002);
Program interventions to reduce infant and child mortality will focus on measures to: (i) reduce
neonatal (0-28 days of age) mortality; (ii) reduce the incidence and severity of infectious diseases in
children (by applying-inter alia-the WHO/UNICEF/CDC-Atlanta package for Integrated Management
of Childhood Illness); (iii) further strengthen the Extended Program of Immunization, and (iv) establish a
strong child nutrition program.
Initially, the project will finance efforts to evaluate currenit diagnostic and treatment practices for
diarrheal and respiratory diseases and to produce written protocols for use in the health facilities. The
project would also train technicians in the maintenance of the cold chain and finance the annual
evaluation of vaccination coverage.
(b) maternal mortality, where the Program aims to reduce MMR from the present level of 940/1000
to 600/1000 in the year 2002;
Program interventions to reduce maternal mortality will include measures to: (i) reduce the risks
related to pregnancy and delivery by providing quality ante-natal and delivery care to at least 80% of
pregnant women in rural areas and to 100% of pregnant women in cities; (ii) identify at risk pregnancies
organize subsequent referral in a timely manner; (iii) intensify training and supervision of health
personnel; and (iv) strengthen IEC and family planning activities including purchasing and distribution of
contraceptives and measures to decrease the importance of FGMs.
Over the first eighteen months, the project will focus on studies to determine the current obstacles
for accessing reproductive health services and the quality of pre and postnatal care.
(c) nutritional status where the objective is to reduce by 25% the severe and moderate malnutrition
in children under five years of age;
Program interventions to improve nutritional status will emphasize measures to: (i) reduce iron,
iodine and vitamin A deficiencies in children and in pregnant and lactating women; (ii) identify and
provide care to children at nutritional risk; (iii) strengthen health sector capacity in nutrition monitoring
and surveillance; and (iv) develop nutrition education activities;
Initially, the project will finance studies to develop applied nutrition surveillance and research
and to plan a Program of micro-projects to promote improved nutrition.
(d) preventive care and infectious diseases (quantified targets are presented in Annex 1).



Project Appraisal Document                                     Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                           Annex 2A - Page 5 of 5
Program interventions to reduce the morbidity and severity of communicable and non-
communicable diseases will address: (i) tuberculosis and leprosy; (ii) parasitic diseases such as malaria,
schistosomiasis, intestinal and Guinea worms; (iii) sexually-transmitted diseases and AIDS; as well as
(iv) behavioral-generated conditions, injuries and accidents (including diabetes, obesity, cardiovascular
diseases, smoking and smoking-related conditions, and route accidents).
Initially, the project would support national-level institutions with existing, successful programs:
the psychiatric hospital, the orthopedic rehabilitation hospital, the TB hospital, and the national
laboratory. As national strategies (currently underway for many of the above diseases) are adopted for
the various communicable and non-communicable diseases, the project will finance appropriate parts of
the strategy. The project will, in particular, support the programs for water-borne and vector transmitted
diseases control.
Program Component 4: Promote social action and create an environment conducive to health
US$11.3 million
Many important pre-requisites for the success of health programs are the responsibility of other
sectors, including: general education, poverty alleviation, control of Mauritania's too rapid urbanization
and of population growth, empowering of women, water and sanitation, and concern with health
ccinsequences of developmental projects. In addition, the social component of efforts to promote
preventive measures and to increase utilization rates is often neglected. The overall objectives of the
Program are to encourage a public environment supportive of the implementation of the health sector
policy and to promote social policies in favor of the poor and other vulnerable groups.
Overall Program interventions aim to reinforce the role of social services as an integral part of
health service delivery and include measures to: (i) revise national policy; (ii) conduct household research
to determine the most pressing needs and the means for addressing such needs; (iii) conduct a
demographic and health survey, (iv) promote appropriate legislation to protect society's most vulnerable
gr-oups; and (v) provide services and assistance to the poor and under-served.
The project tentatively proposes to provide both financial assistance for the operations of the
Social Action Directorate and technical support for revision of the social policy adopted in 1989. In
addition, the project will finance a study of current and future procedures for addressing the issue of
indigence and the provision of health services. The project will also continue implementation of regional
health communications strategies and intends to finance an evaluation of current IDA financed activities
in Hodh El Gharbi and Nouakchott and their extension to two additional regions.
Further to Government's request expressed at Negotiations, the credit will also support the
forthcoming population census. The population census is an activity conducted under the coordination of
the Ministry of Planning and executed by the ONS (under the overall technical supervision and
coordination of the FNUAP). IDA will finance US$1.4 million out of the total estimated cost of US$6
mrkillion of this operation, the remaining funds being provided by donors and Government. The executing
agency for the sub-component financed by IDA will be the FNUAP.






Project Appraisal Document                                     Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                          Annex 28 - Page 1 of 16
Annex 2B
Donor Activities in the Health Sector
Analyse et legons a tirer des projets finances par certains bailleurs de fonds
dans le secteur de la sante en Mauritanie
I - UNION EUROPEENNE
Durant la periode 1990-1996, correspondant au 6eme et 7eme FED, le montant total des
engagements de l'Union Europdenne dans le secteur de la sante en Mauritanie se chiffre a 3 488 795 000
UM. Parmi les instruments utilis6s figurent les projets nationaux et r6gionaux, les fonds de contre partie
de l'ajustement structurel ou de l'aide alimentaire, le cofinancement des ONG ou l'aide d'urgence. Les
projiets execut6s sont analyses ci-apres.
1-1    Projet de rehabilitation du Centre hospitalier national et de l'H6pital Regional d'Aioun
L'objectif du Projet etait d'ameliorer la qualite des soins donnes au Centre hospitalier national
(CHN) et a l'h6pital r6gional d'Aioun par la rehabilitation des infrastructures, la foumiture
d'equipements m6dicaux, la formnation du personnel medical et, pour le CHN, l'appui a la gestion. Le
cofit du Projet a e 7 888 670 ECU sur une prevision de 8.000.000 ECU. L'execution du Projet, entre
1993 et 1995, a permis au niveau des deux etablissements d'ameliorer l'environnement de travail, de
renforcer le plateau technique et la capacite de prise en charge des patients. Au niveau du CHN, le
developpement d'un systeme de gestion plus performant a e  entrepris avec la mise en place d'une
cornptabilit6 analytique et d'une comptabilite matiere. Des reflexions ont dte menees sur les besoins en
medicaments et consommables. Un systeme d' information informatise a et planifie et un systeme de
recouvrement des cofits mis en place. Les resultats obtenus sont satisfaisants.
Cependant, avec le recul, plusieurs remarques peuvent etre faites a propos des travaux effectues.
La rehabilitation du service des urgences et la construction d'un service de porte n'ont pas ete integrees
dans les activites de remise en etat des infrastructures du CHN. II s'ensuit un engorgement de l'h6pital
par les patients et les accompagnants, et des difficultes dans la prise en charge des urgences. La
programmation des equipements et les garanties de maintenance ont et insuffisantes. Divers problemes
d'ecoulement des eaux, de climatisation et d'61ectricite demeurent non resolus notamment au niveau des
urgences, du laboratoire et du bloc operatoire. La restructuration de l'h6pital regional d'Aioun est
incomplete. Le bloc operatoire est mal concu. Le service des urgences, les services generaux et les
infrastructures complementaires (chateau d'eau, groupe electrogene) ont ete omis dans la renovation,
reduisant la fonctionnalite de l'h6pital. La livraison des equipements (instruments chirurgicaux, materiels
de laboratoire, etc.) s'est faite avec retard. Certains equipements livres etaient incomplets, de mauvaise
qualite ou ne sont toujours pas utilis6s faute de personnel qualifie comme au laboratoire. Ces elements
constituent autant de contraintes au bon fonctionnement des structures concernees.
1-2    Projet d'appui a la d6centralisation des services de sante dans la region du Gorgol
Mis en oeuvre entre 1991 et 1995, ce Projet visait i ameliorer l'acces des populations de la region du
Gorgol a des soins de base appropries par un appui aux differents niveaux du systeme de sante regional.



Project Appraisal Document                                       Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                            Annex 2B - Page 2 of 16
Cet objectif s'integrait dans le processus de d6centralisation engage par le MSAS. Le Projet a, ainsi
contribue au developpement des soins de sante primaires dans la region par la formation des Unites
Sanitaires de Base (USB), la construction/ rehabilitation de 25 formations sanitaires primaires, la mise en
oeuvre d'un systeme de recouvrement des coOts dans 4 centres de sante de Moughata, le soutien au
programme SMI notamment dans sa composante PEV et l'initiation de la lutte contre la dracunculose. Au
niveau secondaire, les batiments de l'h6pital regional de Kaedi ont e  rehabilites et le systeme
d'information reorganise. La faisabilite d'un systeme de recouvrernent des cofits a ete etudiee et un appui
donne au fonctionnement de l'hopital. Enfin les batiments de la Diiection regionale de l'action sanitaire et
Sociale et du Dep6t Pharmaceutique Regional ont ete construits. Le montant des engagements est de
3.625.000 ECU.
Les resultats obtenus sont globalement satisfaisants si l'on en juge par le niveau de fonctionnalit6
des structures sanitaires primaires et I'augmentation progressive du taux d'utilisation de l'hopital, seule
formation sanitaire de ce type A avoir beneficie de l'affectation d'un chirurgien mauritanien. Cependant
certains problemes constates entravent le bon fonctionnement des formations sanitaires. Au niveau de
l'h6pital regional, ces problemes concement la mauvaise isolation des salles de malades, le manque de
solidite A certains endroits des materiaux locaux utilises, I'dquipement insuffisant des services de
laboratoire et de radiologie et la faible capacite de maintenance. Au niveau des formations sanitaires de
base, le manque de solidite des mat6riaux locaux utilises dans Ia construction des batiments oblige A
envisager A breve 6cheance de nouvelles operations de renovation. De plus, le taux d'attrition des USB
est eleve, atteignant 50% et des difficultes persistent dans l'approvisionnement en medicaments, les
quantites livrees A la region etant inferieures aux besoins du fait de I'augmentation du nombre de
structures sanitaires A ravitailler. A tous les niveaux, les effectifs en personnels de sante sont insuffisants
bien que la region du Gorgol soit l'une des regions les mieux dotees du pays.
1-3    Appui au Programme de lutte contre les MST/SIDA (PNLS)
L'appui de l'Union Europeenne au programme national de lutte contre les MST/SIDA (PNLS) se
fait d'une part a travers le volet national du programme regional de lutte contre les MST/SIDA, d'autre
part, directement au PNLS dans le cadre d'une convention signee le 15/9/94 pour une duree de deux ans
d'un montant de 350.000 ECU. II est axe essentiellement sur le renforcement de la prise en charge des
patients atteints de MST et de leurs partenaires.
Le volet national du programme regional visait: i) A creer et renforcer le developpement de
centres de reference nationaux constitues par le service de dermatologie du CHN et le centre de sante de
Sebkha a Nouakchott, ii) a developper la recherche operationnelle. A partir de 1994, I'appui direct, au
programme national de lutte contre les MST/SIDA, s'est fixe pour objectif, la d6centralisation des
activites de lutte au niveau de 8 centres situes dans les villes de N4ouakchott, un centre de sante dans
chacune des villes de Nouadhibou, Kiffa et Kaedi par le renforcement de ces centres de sante grace A la
rehabilitation des bAtiments, la fourniture d'equipements de laboratoire et de reactifs, la formation du
personnel medical, I'information/ education des patients sur les MST. Un appui etait aussi prevu a la
Soci6te Nationale des Industries Minieres (SNIM) pour le d6veloppement d'une politique d'entreprise
concernant les MST/SIDA en collaboration avec le PNLS. Le Projet prevoyait enfin, le renforcement des
capacites techniques du PNLS et des etudes visant l'amelioration du ionctionnement des services.
Malgr6 les retards, certaines actions planifiees ont ete r6alisdes, telles la mise en place des
structures de reference, l'etude sur les etiologies des ecoulements genitaux qui a permis d'6tablir des
protocoles therapeutiques et d'elaborer un manuel de formation A l'intention du personnel de sante,
l'organisation de sessions de formation, 1'elaboration et la diffusion( de materiels IEC. Par contre tous les



Project Appraisal Document                                       Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                            Annex 2B - Page 3 of 16
laboratoires des centres de sante n'ont pu etre 6quipes faute de personnel qualifi6, ce qui n'a permis
d'intervenir dans un premier temps que dans 2 centres de sante de la peripherie de Nouakchott. Un
marche de reactifs a ete passe avec une societe mauritanienne prevoyant des livraisons fractionnees en
fonction des besoins et du niveau d'activites des centres. Le manque de coordination entre les volets du
programme appuyes par d'autres bailleurs de fonds et les autres services (SMI/PF, tuberculose, maladies
transmissibles) diminue la coherence de l'intervention et limite l'integration des activites au niveau
p6riiph6rique. Malgre ces insuffisances, la mission d'evaluation, conduite par la << Task Force SIDA> A la
fin cle 1995, a conclu A une reussite A cause des acquis obtenus, le Projet ayant contribue a:
* F'amelioration des connaissances sur les MST;
* la definition de strategies de lutte claires contre les MST; et
* Ia resolution de certains problemes constates lors de la mise en oeuvre du plan A moyen terme.
Malheureusement ces acquis sont actuellement compromis par le blocage du financement par la
D6l6gation de l'Union Europeenne depuis fin juillet 1996, y compris le marche des reactifs en cours, suite
A des malentendus. Les discussions sont engagees en vue de relancer tres prochainement les activites.
Les fonds disponibles sur le Projet national sont de 240.000 ECU. La totalite du budget du Projet regional
a et entierement utilisee, soit 272.790 ECU.
1-4    Appui au programme de lutte contre la cecite
Le Projet d'appui au programme de lutte contre la cecite represente le volet national d'un
programme regional couvrant les pays membres de l'Organisation Commune de lutte Contre les Grandes
Endemies en Afrique de l'Ouest. II est gere A partir de Bamako par l'Institut d'Ophtalmologie Tropicale
Afiicaine (IOTA), et localement par un coordonateur nomme par le MSAS. Le Projet a pour but de
reduire les c6cit6s evitables par le developpement des actions de pr6vention et les cecites curables par le
developpement des soins ophtalmologiques.
Durant la premiere phase de mise en oeuvre, de 1993 A 1996, le programme mauritanien a
beneficie de divers concours qui se sont traduits par (i) la formation de 2 medecins et 4 infirmiers, (ii)
I'acquisition de stocks de materiels destines A l'equipement d'un centre fixe, en l'occurrence l'antenne
regionale d'ophtalmologie de Nouakchott sise A la PMI- Pilote, et A l'organisation de missions de
chiirurgie avancee A l'interieur du pays, (iii) la mise place d'un systeme de communication par satellite.
Dans I'attente de leur affectation, les 6quipements sont stockes dans les magasins du MSAS. Une
nouvelle convention de financement a ete signee recemment couvrant la periode 1997-1998 en vue de
poursuivre les activites de formation des personnels medical et infirmier localement et A l'etranger, de
sensibilisation, de renforcer la supervision des antennes regionales. Les locaux affectes A la Division des
maladies cecitantes 2 medecins seront rehabilites et equipes. En outre, on prevoit de mener, avec l'aide
de l'L.O.T.A., une enquete descriptive sur le trachome dans ies regions du nord du pays et une enquete de
prevalence de la cecite en Mauritanie. Le cofit du Projet est de 1.162.500 ECU dont 655.555 ECU sont
engages au titre de la premiere phase. Le montant de la nouvelle convention pour 1997-1998 est de
35.588 ECU.
1-5    Appui au processus d'ajustement structurel
L'appui de l'Union Europeenne au processus d'ajustement structurel a d6marre en 1993. Dans le
domaine de ia sante, il a revetu deux formes: (a) appui budgetaire au secteur de la sante pour la
realisation de certaines d6penses et (b) appui technique A la Direction du budget et des comptes en vue de
l' introduction d'une nouvelle nomenclature budgetaire pour le secteur sanitaire. Le montant total des



Project Appraisal Document                                    Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                         Annex 2B - Page 4 of 16
engagements, tous secteurs confondus, a 6te de 20.145.000 ECU pour le programme 1993-1995, et de
13.300.000 ECU pour le programme 1995-1996. Le montant des decaissements effectues sur les fonds de
contrepartie au profit du secteur sanitaire s'est 6leve entre 1993 et 1996 A 7.395.388 ECU soit
1.257.250.000 UM.
L'appui budgetaire au secteur de la sante a ete utilise pour financer l'entretien des equipements
par le service de maintenance, la construction, 1'equipement de sept Directions r6gionales A l'action
sanitaire et sociale (DRASS) et la fourniture de consommables et de produits pharmaceutiques a ces
structures et pour ameliorer le fonctionnement des directions du MSAS. Les allocations faites au CHN
ont servi pour l'achat de medicaments, le secours aux indigents et l'apurement des dettes de l'Etat envers
l'etablissement. Un soutien est apporte depuis 1996 au Programme Elargi de Vaccination, dans le cadre
d'un Projet regional d'appui A l'independance vaccinale. Couvrant une periode de trois ans, l'objectif de
ce Projet est d'assurer la transition de la prise en charge des op6raltions de vaccination (achat de vaccins
et de materiel de vaccination ) vers le budget de I'Etat.
L'appui A la Direction du budget et des comptes (comprenant le financement d'une cellule
d'appui et une assistance technique internationale) a aboutit A des resultats satisfaisants. II a permis
d'ameliorer la programmation des recettes et la programmation budgetaire. II a contribue au deroulement
de la revue des ddpenses publiques en 1995. Dans le secteur de la sante, cet appui visait plus
particuli6rement l'introduction d'une nouvelle nomenclature budgetaire (budget programme).
Le soutien au Programme Elargi de Vaccination et l'appui A la Direction du budget et des
comptes pour la mise en place du budget programme sont les seuls volets en cours d'execution sur les
fonds de contre partie. Pour le soutien au PEV, un montant de 36 millions UM vient d'etre alloud au titre
de 1'exercice 1997. Un montant similaire est prevu pour 1998. Par contre aucun financement n'est pour le
moment mis en place pour soutenir le processus de mise en place du budget programme qui pourrait
requerir des fonds suppilmentaires.
Pour P'annee 1997, la notification des activites prises en charge sur fonds de contrepartie est
parvenue au MSAS durant le troisieme trimestre, suite au retard intervenu dans la r6partition
intersectorielle de 1'enveloppe. Outre le soutien au PEV, les engagements de l'Union europeenne, d'un
montant de 21,6 millions UM, porteront sur l'informatisation de la DPM, la mise en place du systeme de
recouvrement des couts dans les regions de l'Adrar et de l'Inchiri, I'acquisition du materiel orthopedique
pour le CNORF, et l'achat de filtres pour le programme national de lutte contre le ver de Guinee.
On remarquera le risque de duplication entre les deux premieres activites relatives A
l'informatisation de la DPM et A la mise en place du systeme de recouvrement des couts dans les regions
de l'Adrar et de l'Inchiri et des volets du Projet de renforcement des soins de sante primaires supporte par
la Banque Africaine de Developpement.
D'autres demandes de financement sur les fonds de contrepartie sont en cours d'examen au
niveau du Ministere du Plan et de la Delegation de l'Union Europeenne. Il s'agit de la mise a disposition
de Volontaires des Nations Unies pour travailler comme chirurgiens dans les hopitaux regionaux (47
Millions UM ), de la poursuite de l'appui aux operations de maintenimce et d'equipements (144 Millions
UM), de la maintenance des infrastructures sanitaires (30 Millions UM).



Project Appraisal Document                                       Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Coiuntry: Mauritania                                                           Annex 2B - Page 5 of 16
1-6    Cofinancement des projets des ONG
Differentes ONG  beneficient d'un cofinancement de leurs projets de la part de l'Union
Europeenne. Les financements les plus recents ont et alloues au Groupe de Recherche et de Realisation
pcur le Developpement Rural dans le tiers monde (GRDR) et A << Sante Sud >>, ONG d'origine francaise.
Le GRDR a realise la construction en 1992 du poste de sante de Bouly. Sante Sud a effectue la
construction et 1'equipement en materiel et mobilier medical de 10 postes de sante communaux. Au
niveau du centre de sante de Kiffa, elle a procede A la rehabilitation partielle des locaux, A la mise en
place du centre de readaptation et d'6ducation nutritionnelle, au developpement d'activites preventives de
SMI (vaccinations, planification familiale). Enfin, le systeme de recouvrement des cofits et la formation
dii personnel ont ete engages.
1-7    Aides d'urgence ECHO
Cet instrument a ete utilise pour financer l'assistance, en 1993 et 1994, aux populations ddplacees
du Mali et l'appui aux Centres de Rehabilitation et d'Education Nutritionnelle (CREN) de Nouakchott.
Par l'interm6diaire des ONG <<Medecins Sans Frontieres>> et <<Medecins du Monde>> et du Haut
Commissariat pour les Refugies (HCR), I'assistance aux refugies maliens a permis d'organiser des
activites de soins dans trois camps de personnes d6placees (montant 100.000 ECU), de foumir des tentes
el des materiels et equipements sanitaires et domestiques, de couvrir les couts de logistique (montant
9030.000 ECU) et de distribuer des produits alimentaires (montant de 300.000 ECU). Par le biais de
l'ONG << Pharmaciens Sans Frontieres >> en 1994, d'equiper les CREN de Nouakchott ont recu des
*^quipements en 1994 et des dotations en materiels medicaux et en mddicaments pour un montant de
1 00.000 ECU.
1-8    Conclusion
Les appuis communautaires s'inscrivaient dans l'ensemble dans les priorites sectorielles telles
que decrites dans la politique nationale de sante, notamment apres 1'adoption par le MSAS du Plan
Directeur 1991-1995/6. Une complementarite et une synergie etaient souvent recherchees avec l'action
d'autres bailleurs de fonds comme la Coop6ration Francaise ou la Banque Mondiale. 11 en est ainsi de
I'appui A la decentralisation dans la r6gion du Gorgol ou des tentatives de mise en place d'un systeme de
gestion des medicaments essentiels et de l'introduction du recouvrement des couts dans le secteur
hospitalier.
Les projets finances par l'Union Europeenne etaient pour la plupart geographiquement limites. Le
secteur hospitalier en a ete le principal bdneficiaire, qu'il s'agisse du CHN ou des Hopitaux regionaux de
Kaedi et d'Aioun El Atrouss. Orientes surtout sur les investissements lourds, ils ont consiste en la
renovation d'infrastructures, et la foumiture d'equipements. Cependant, les actions realisees ont souffert
cl'insuffisance dans la preparation et la conduite des operations d'infrastructures, et/ou de retard dans la
programmation et la fourniture des equipements. Les capacites de maintenance ne garantissent pas un
entretien correct des equipements installes dont certains sont tres sophistiquds. Ces insuffisances
expliquent en partie que tous les objectifs n'ont pas et atteints. Elles justifient l'inscription dans le
programme de d6veloppement des infrastructures du PASS de certains travaux de r6habilitation devant
6tre executes au niveau de ces etablissements hospitaliers et de certaines formations sanitaires primaires
(le la region du Gorgol. Le manque de definition par le MSAS d'une strategie hospitaliere, A un moment
oa la priorite se situait plutot au niveau des soins de sante primaires et l'insuffisance de personnels
f7ormrs sont aussi responsables de la faible operationalite de certaines des structures appuyees.



Project Appraisal Document                                     Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                          Annex 2B - Page 6 of 16
Les autres formes d'assistance de l'Union Europeenne utilisant les fonds de contrepartie etaient
sous-tendues par une logique d'ajustement structurel. Les appuis de ce type sont en general concus
comme des aides limitees dans le temps. Leur poursuite est conditionnee par l'atteinte d'un certain
nombre de resultats, par exemple la mise en place au CHN des systemes coherents de gestion des
medicaments essentiels et l'elaboration d'une politique de prise en cliarge des indigents ou l'extension du
systeme de recouvrement des cofits A certains actes de prevention. L'insuffisance de competences
nationales dans le domaine de la gestion et de l'6conomie de la saznt a freine l'execution des actions
financees sur les fonds de contrepartie du fait du non-respect par le MSAS des diverses conditionalites.
L'absence d'un programme pluri-annuel pour l'utilisation des fionds ne permet pas de donner la
coherence souhaitee par le bailleur de fonds aux actions qui lui sont soumises pour financement.
On observe donc une diminution progressive des engagements entre 1993 et 1996, surtout
perceptible pour les fonds de contre partie, voire a un arret du financeement de certaines activites comme
l'appui A la lutte contre les MST/SIDA. La convention de financement du 8eme FED signee recemment
ne prevoit aucun financement en ECU sur le Programme indicatif national (PIN) pour le secteur de la
sante, bien que theoriquement celui-ci demeure un des secteurs prioritaires d'intervention de l'Union
Europeenne. Seule une partie des fonds de contrepartie pourra etre allouee, directement et/ou par le biais
d'autres organismes d'execution pour financer des projets soumis par le MSAS. La programmation de
ces fonds, initialement prevue en Mars 1997, pourrait se faire en Octobre.
L'absence de toute pr6vision de financement sur le PIN de Lome IV bis et le faible nombre de
projets inscrits dans le portefeuille en 1997 ou en 1998 et au-dela, pourraient provenir de plusieurs
causes: a) baisse de l'interet porte au secteur par l'Union Europeenne en depit de la priorit6 affichee, b)
insuffisance des capacites du MSAS dans les domaines de la programmation et du suivi de l'execution
des projets, et c) absence d'un dialogue continu et constructif entre les services du MSAS et la Delegation
de l'UE.
BANQUE AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BAD)
Le Projet de renforcement des soins de sante primaires represente l'action la plus importante
soutenue dans le secteur de la sant6 en Mauritanie par le groupe de la BAD. II constitue une partie du
<< Projet Sante Population >> cofinance par la Banque Mondiale et d'autres bailleurs de fonds. Ses objectifs
visent a:
* renforcer les soins de sante primaires par la mise a la disposition des formations sanitaires
peripheriques des medicaments essentiels;
* ameliorer la capacite du secteur pharmaceutique central et dans 4 regions en matiere
d'acquisition, de conditionnement, de controle de la qualite, de stockage, de gestion et de
distribution des medicaments essentiels;
* renforcer les prestations sanitaires peripheriques dans les regions de l'Adrar et de l'Inchiri;
* assurer une maintenance continue des equipements et des infrastructures faisant partie de
l'intervention.
Le coOt initial du Projet, soit 12, 266 Millions UCF (1.231, 01l5 Millions UM), est couvert par un
pret de la BAD equivalant A 10 millions UCF et un apport du Gouveimement Mauritanien qui supporte
18% des d6penses du Projet, essentiellement en monnaie locale.



Project Appraisal Document                                   Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                        Annex 2B - Page 7 of 16
Prevu initialement en 1992, le demarrage effectif n'a eu lieu qu'en 1994 a cause du retard dans
les procedures d'approbation tant nationales que celles de la BAD.
1.    Execution physique
Au bout de quatre annees, le niveau d'execution est relativement bas comme le demontre le bilan
de 1'execution physique des differentes composantes.
Composante de renforcement du secteur pharmaceutique central et dans 4 regions
La construction de 4 depots regionaux (Adrar, Inchiri, Brakna, Hodh El Gharbi) est achevee. Une
partie des vehicules a ete acquise. Environ 54% des depenses pr6vues pour le fonctionnement de la DPM
et la formation A l'utilisation des medicaments essentiels ont e  effectuees. La totalite des medicaments a
ete fournie. Le nombre d'activites residuelles est tres important. II s'agit en particulier de la renovation de
la DPM (bloc administratif, dep6t central, atelier, garage) et de la construction du laboratoire de controle
de qualite des medicaments, de la fourniture des equipements et du mobilier, de la realisation des Vrd et
travaux exterieurs, du reamenagementlextension du dep6t central. Un lot complementaire de vehicules
doit etre fourni et une assistance technique mise en place aupres de la DPM pour 18H/mois. Un important
volet de formation est aussi prevu au profit des personnels des services pharmaceutiques du niveau
central (Directeur, chefs de services, inspecteurs, pharmaciens d'approvisionnement et de distribution,
responsable informatique, technicien biomedical) et du niveau decentralise afin d'ameliorer les
competences dans les domaines de la gestion des services pharmaceutiques, de l'approvisionnement et de
la distribution des medicaments. 11 est indeniable que ces retards ont eu des repercussions negatives sur la
performance du secteur pharmaceutique qui n'a pas ete capable de suivre les reformes engagees durant la
periode couverte par le Plan Directeur pr6cedent.
Composante de renforcement des soins de sante primaires
dans les regions de I'Adrar et de l'Inchiri
La quasi totalite des etudes a ete realisee. Quelques vehicules ont ete livres, ainsi que des filtres
pour le programme national de lutte contre le ver de Guinee, et des mobiliers pour l'Ecole Nationale de
sante publique et le programme national de lutte contre le ver de Guin6e. La DRASS de I'Adrar a recu
tine petite dotation de medicament. Les activites de formation ont concerne des techniciens de laboratoire,
des personnels infirmiers et sages femmes, et des agents du programme national de lutte contre le ver de
Guinee. Les travaux de construction des postes de sante de Tawaz et de Benichab sont acheves.
Dans la Wilaya de l'Adrar, il reste au titre du genie civil A achever les travaux de:
* construction de la DRASS, du centre de sante de Ouadane, et de postes de sante dans les localites
de Terabane, Toungad, Laghleitat, Idechane, Timinit, Wokchada;
* reamenagement/extension de l'h6pital regional d'Atar, de la PMI du centre de sante Atar; et
* renovation des locaux de l'Unite de maintenance situee dans la cour de l'h6pital, des PMI
d'Aoujeft et de Choum, des postes de sante de Ksar Torchane, Ain el Taya et Kenawal.
Dans la Wilaya de l'Inchiri, les travaux en cours concernent la construction de la DRASS et le
reamenagement/extension du Centre de Sante de type A. Celui-ci comprendra 12 lits d'hospitalisation et



Project Appraisal Document                                     Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                          Annex 2B - Page 8 of 16
une petite salle d'operation dont le rajout a ete decide recemment, anticipant ainsi sur la programmation
du PASS. Cependant la construction de cette salle se heurte A l'exiguite du site d'implantation choisi qui,
bien que de position centrale dans la ville, n'offre que peu d'espace pour l'extension de l'infrastructure.
Aussi a-t-il fallu delocaliser la DRASS vers un autre emplacement. Une unite regionale de maintenance
sera 6galement construite.
La plupart des travaux de genie civil ci-dessus enumeres sorit en cours d'execution ou vont tres
prochainement demarrer. En meme temps, sera lance l'appel d'offre pour I'acquisition des equipements/
mobiliers de toutes les infrastructures rehabilitees ou construites par le Projet et pour l'acquisition de 5
vehicules. 11 restera A fournir une dotation de petits materiels et de medicaments essentiels et A executer le
volet de la formation. Celui-ci comporte toute une serie de s6minaires ateliers A l'intention de diverses
categories de personnels (DRASS, medecins chefs de Moughata, medecins, infirmier majors, techniciens
de laboratoire, agents de maintenance, chefs de postes de sante) daris les domaines aussi varies que la
gestion, le systeme d'information sanitaire, la sante publique, les techniques de laboratoire et les
specialitbs medico-chirurgicales.
Composante de creation de l'Unite de maintenance
Outre la dotation en micro-ordinateur, le service de maintenance a ete assiste par un specialiste de
la maintenance appartenant A une firme de consultants pendant 12 mois. Un seminaire a ete organise pour
les medecins chefs pour les sensibiliser aux problemes de maintenance. Les appels d'offre sont en cours
pour les travaux de genie civil et pour l'acquisition des equipements et mobiliers. La formation de 10
agents de maintenance reste un objectif du projet. Un montant de 53.078 UCF non engage doit servir aux
frais de fonctionnement de I'Unite de maintenance.
Composante Bureau d'execution du projet
Cette composante est la seule entierement executee A ce jour. Les locaux du bureau d'execution
du projet ont ete renoves et equipes. L'Assistance technique pour la supervision et le contr6le des travaux
est en place. Trois agents ont recu une formation en management, comptabilite et informatique.
Etudes architecturales de 11h6pital de Nouadhibou
Ces etudes techniques et architecturales ont pour but d'evaluer les cofits lids A la reprise des
travaux de construction de l'h6pital regional de Nouadhibou. Elles pourraient s'achever au debut de
l'annee 1998, A cause d'un retard li au bureau d'etudes. La capacite envisagee est de 100 lits repartis
entre les services de medecine, de chirurgie, de pediatrie et de maternite. Une unite de psychiatrie et une
de contagieux ainsi qu'un service d'urgence sont egalement prevus. Couit des etudes: 107.761 UCF.
2.     Execution financiere
La situation financiere du projet reflete celle des activites. Les engagements ne representent que
28,5% des ressources et les decaissements 18,7%. Toutefois, si on ajoute au montant engage le cofit
estimatif des travaux du lot genie civil (1.298.207 UCF) et des equipements medicaux et divers
(1.244.278 UCF) dont l'appel d'offre sera lance incessamment, le taux d'engagement des ressources du
projet augmente sensiblement (51%). En ce qui concerne l'utilisation des ressources du prat FAD, le taux
de decaissement est de 21,8%. La repartition des decaissements par categorie de depenses revele un
depassement au niveau des etudes et des medicaments essentiels.



Project Appraisal Document                                       Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                            Annex 2B - Page 9 of 16
3.     ProblImes de mise en oeuvre
L'enum6ration des activites r6siduelles et le faible taux de d6caissement temoignent des
difficultes rencontr6es dans l'execution du projet. Non seulement le retard initial de demarrage de 18
mois n'a pas e  rattrap6, mais d'autres facteurs de ralentissement se sont surajoutes. Ce sont entre autres,
les lenteurs dans le processus d'execution et d'engagement des ressources, dans le lancement des appels
d'offres et le traitement des dossiers, la non-liberation des locaux de la DPM, la non-implication des
services centraux et regionaux du MSAS dans la planification et l'execution des activites, la supervision
insuffisante des chantiers. L'eloignement du bailleur, qui n'est pas represente en Mauritanie, ne favorise
pas non plus le dialogue et la prise de decision. La derni&re mission de suivi et d'evaluation de la BAD a
de ce fait recommande d'adopter une nouvelle strategie d'execution du projet afin de rattraper le retard et
de garantir l'efficacit6 des realisations. Parmi ces recommandations, qui concordent avec les objectifs du
PASS, figurent l'elaboration d'une politique pharmaceutique nationale, l'evaluation du systeme de
recouvrement des cofits, la definition d'un paquet minimum d'activites pour tous les niveaux de la
pyramide sanitaire, la necessite de mener une r6flexion sur la prise en charge des frais de fonctionnement
du laboratoire de contr6le de qualite par ses clients et d'affecter le personnel requis dans les formations
sanitaires renovees ou construites par le projet.
COOPERATION FRANCAISE
Presente dans le secteur depuis l'independance, la Cooperation francaise est la plus ancienne de
toutes les cooperations dans le secteur de la sante en Mauritanie. Entre 1982 et 1994, la Cooperation
Framnaise a investi 251, 896 MF dans le secteur de la sante, dont 88,8% au titre de l'assistance technique
et des bourses, 10,4% au titre des conventions FAC et 0,7% par la Caisse Francaise de D6veloppement.
L'aide dans le secteur de la sante represente 7,7% du volume global de l'aide apportee par la France a la
Mauritanie A travers ses differents organismes de cooperation au developpement.
1.     Evolution des orientations de la Cooperation Franqaise
dans le secteur de la sante en Mauritanie
On peut identifier trois periodes d'evolution dans les moyens et les modalites de la cooperation
francaise.  De 1982 A 1986, les credits FAC qui sont annuels sont polarises d'une part, sur le
renforcement du fonctionnement et de l'6quipement des hopitaux, principalement le CHN et les h6pitaux
regionaux de Atar, Kaedi, Nouadhibou, malgr6 la denomination de certaines conventions faussement
intitulees < Appui A la sante publique >, et l'appui logistique aux assistants techniques d'autre part. Mais,
en l'absence d'une politique hospitaliere clairement definie et de la faible articulation des h6pitaux avec
les autres niveaux du systeme de sante, l'impact des projets sur I'amelioration de la situation sanitaire
reste globalement faible. Le nombre des assistants techniques est eleve, partiellement compense par des
programmes de bourses.
Entre 1986 1991, les projets visent autant le secteur hospitalier que les soins de sante primaires.
Le Projet d'amelioration de la situation sanitaire de la region du Gorgol, cofinance par le Fonds Europeen
de Ddveloppement, et executd par l'Association Fran,aise des Volontaires du Progres (AFVP) en est une
illustration. Ses activites sont orientees vers la formation, le recyclage et la supervision d'agents de sante
communautaires, la disponibilisation de medicaments essentiels a faible cofit aupres des populations, le
renforcement des moyens humains et materiels et du systeme de gestion de la DRASS et de l'h6pital
regional. En meme temps, la programmation des credits FAC devient pluriannuelle et de nouveaux
insltruments d'assistance voient le jour, en l'occurrence l'aide budgetaire dans le cadre de l'appui au



Project Appraisal Document                                       Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                           Annex 2B - Page 10 of 16
processus d'ajustement structurel.
Entre 1992 et 1995, l'objectif est de restructurer les systemes de sante. La reorientation de
I'assistance technique d'un r6le de substitution vers un r6le de conseil, latente au cours de la periode
precedente est reaffirm6e. Les recentes conventions de financement visent quant A elles I'autonomie des
systemes de sante mauritaniens.
2.     Analyse des programmes soutenus par la Cooperation Fran<aise entre 1990 et 1997
2-1    Convention pour l'utilisation des fonds de contre partie le I'aide budgetaire 1990.
L'aide budgetaire consentie en 1990 a permis de rembourser la dette de la Mauritanie aupres des
h6pitaux de Paris (5 MF ) et d'acheter en devises des medicaments pour le CHN et pour le systeme de
recouvrement des couits. Les fonds de contrepartie resultant de la vente de ces medicaments, d'un
montant de 4,2 millions FF soit 92 Millions UM, devraient etre utilises pour appuyer:
a)- la decentralisation dans le Trarza A travers la mise en conformite des infrastructures sanitaires de la
Region, dont la construction/ rehabilitation du batiment de la DRASS, de I'h6pital regional, d'un centre
de sante par Moughata et de postes de sante par Commune. Cout: 60 Millions UM;
b)- le developpement du systeme d'information sanitaire et de l'analyse epidemiologique dans les regions
A travers la formation et la supervision des personnels de sante exercant u niveau des DRASS. Cout: 32
Millions UM.
La lenteur dans la reconstitution des fonds de contrepartie g,neres par cette aide budgetaire n'a
pas permis encore d'executer les actions enumerees ci-dessus.
2-2    Aide A l'ajustement structurel de 1992
D'un montant de 13 MF, les fonds de contrepartie de l'ajustement structurel ont e utilises pour
la construction de 89 postes de sante, 1'extension de 13 CS, de maternites et de structures hospitalieres, et
la rehabilitation partielle du CHN. Les travaux de genie civil concernant le niveau primaire constituaient
une partie du (< Projet sante population >> cofinanc6 par la Banque Mcndiale et d'autres bailleurs de fonds.
Leur achevement est pr6vu en 1997.
Ce projet a largement contribue A l'extension de la couverture sanitaire de base. Cependant tous
les postes de sante construits ne sont pas implantes dans les localites les plus peuplees, des criteres
objectifs n'ayant pas toujours prevalu lors du choix des sites d'imp]lantation. L'execution des travaux a
connu des retards du fait de la lourdeur des procedures. La qualite des infrastructures realisees a souleve
des reclamations notamment pour les postes de sant6 bien qu'un plan type ait et6 utilise. Les postes de
sante construits presentaient en effet, de nombreuses malfa,ons au niiveau des maconneries, du systeme
d'approvisionnement en eau, des revetements de sol et des toitures. La conception du plan type, les
faibles competences des entreprises de construction et le mode et la qualite de la supervision des
chantiers, impliquant l'Etat, etaient responsables des defauts constates. Le programme de construction
n'etait pas accompagne d'un programme de rehabilitation/remplacem,ent des equipements dont la qualit6
est mediocre. Les effectifs des personnels de sante s'averent insuffisants en maints endroits. Certaines
infrastructures construites sont de ce fait peu fonctionnelles ou restent longtemps fermees. Dans le cadre
du PASS, il est prevu d'elaborer un plan de developpement des infrastructures sanitaires precisant
notamment les criteres objectifs de localisation des formations sanitaires de base et de prendre en compte
les implications de ce plan d'infrastructures sur les dotations en personnels et en equipements. 11 est aussi
prevu de r6viser le plan type des postes de sante qui sera utilise par tous les intervenants et de revoir les



Project Appraisal Document                                       Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                           Annex 2B - Page 11 of 16
modalites de selection des entreprises de construction ainsi que celles de la supervision des travaux.
2-3    Projet d'appui a la restructuration des systemes socio-sanitaires mauritaniens
(Convention FAC 1992-1995)
D'un montant de 12MF, if s'agissait du premier FAC pluriannuel. Le projet comprenait 5 volets.
Le volet 1, intitule appui A la decentralisation a permis de financer: i) la formation de 20 cadres
medecins directeurs r6gionaux de l'action sanitaire et sociale (DRASS), ii) la formation A distance pour
15 cadres du niveau central, iii) la foumiture de micro-ordinateurs destines A 1'6quipement des DRASS.
Cout: 3,4 MF.
Le volet 2 d'appui au d6veloppement sanitaire regional etait destine A renforcer les programmes
de vaccination par la fourniture de chaines de froid photovoltaYques, et d'hygiene publique au niveau des
r6gions, par le contr6le de 1'eau et des aliments, la lutte antivectorielle et l'hygiene hospitaliere. Ce volet
a et execute en collaboration avec les ONG: Gret/Alizes, Pharnaciens Sans frontieres, Medecine Aide
Presence-Perpignan, et la Direction internationale des hopitaux de Paris. Un complement de rehabilitation
de l'h6pital d'Atar a e  realise sur ce volet dont le montant total a e  de 2,5 MF.
Le troisieme volet, oriente vers la formation et le recyclage du personnel de sante visait A appuyer
le dispositif d'assistance technique detachee au CHN (1 1 cooperants sur 19) en vue de reorienter leurs
activites vers la formation des personnels de sante sur 1'ensemble du pays, a creer une bibliotheque
medicale et infirmiere, A financer diverses actions de cooperation inter-universitaire et de jumelage inter-
hospitalier. Il a soutenu en plus, des formations qualifiantes pour des personnels d'encadrement et l'achat
d'equipements de laboratoire pour la formation de 12 Techniciens Superieurs de Sante. Ce volet a ete
complete par le projet Sante Population de la Banque Mondiale qui a finance des formations qualifiantes
en anesthesie et les stages de perfectionnement des cadres mauritaniens charges d'encadrer la formation.
Montant: 2,5 MF,
Le quatrieme volet a appuye la lutte contre les MST et le Sida. Execute en collaboration avec le
Fonds Europeen de Developpement et le projet de la Banque Mondiale, ce volet a contribue A definir et
mettre en oeuvre des programmes de prevention des MST/SIDA. Il a permis d'organiser la transfusion
sanguine, de developper le contr6le des MST, de mener des etudes sur les MST, d'ouvrir un laboratoire
de reference MST au CHN pour la recherche, de developper un reseau de laboratoires pour le diagnostic
biologique et la s6curite transfusionnelle dans des hopitaux regionaux, d'assurer la formation des
personnels en soins specialises. Le montant de la contribution fran,aise etait de 2 MF.
Le volet 5 visait la diversification des systemes de sante. Il associait des actions de protection
sociiale et de facilitation de l'acces aux soins de certaines couches de population demunies. Avec les
ressources mises a sa disposition, l'ONG Caritas qui etait un des operateurs a reussi A developper un
centre de sante de type prive a but non lucratif dans le Departement Dar Naim a Nouakchott fonctionnant
de fa9on entierement autonome, et a completer le financement de son projet d'ecole m6dico-pedagogique
pour enfants handicapes. Montant 1,5 MF. Par l'intermediaire des ONG, I'AFVP et le GRDR (Groupe de
recherche et de realisation pour le developpement dans le tiers-monde), un autre projet de ce volet a aide
la DRASS et des communes du Guidimaka A coordonner les flux financiers generes par les migrants pour
les services de sante et la protection sociale.



Project Appraisal Document                                   Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                       Annex 2B - Page 12 of 16
2-4    Autres projets finances par la Cooperation franqaise
5-1 Enquete de mortalite maternelle: Un credit de 350.000 FF a et alloue pour la realisation
d'une enquete de morbidite maternelle (MOMA) dans deux zones urbaines de Nouakchott et pour la
structuration du service d'action sociale de la DRASS.
5-2 Appui aux refugies du nord Mali: Un credit FAC de 1,5 MF a et octroye aux ONG
Medecins Sans Frontieres et Medecins Du Monde et A l'Association <<Equilibre>> agissant comme
prestataires du Haut Commissariat des Nations Unies pour les Refugi6s (HCR).
2-5    Cofinancement des ONG
Les actions de cofinancement se sont surtout developpees A partir de 1991 avec differentes ONG
de droit fran9ais ou mauritanien. La plupart des volets des projets FAC sont desormais executes avec le
concours des ONG. Inversement, apportant une part du financement de leurs projets, la Cooperation
apparait comme un des principaux bailleurs des ONG intervenant sur le terrain. Les dossiers presentes
doivent recevoir un agrement du comite de pilotage installe au Ministere de la Cooperation et du
developpement. Les principales ONG concern6es sont: Association Fran9aise des Volontaires du Progres,
Pharmaciens Sans Frontieres, Sante Sud, Medecins Sans Frontieres, Medecins Du Monde, Caritas,
Gret/Alizes, Credes, Raoul Follereau.
2-6    Cooperation d&centralisie
A c6te des ONG, d'autres acteurs non gouvernementaux collaborent avec la Cooperation
fran9aise dans la mise en oeuvre des projets d'appui au secteur de la sante parmi lesquels figurent les
jumelages intercommunaux, la cooperation decentralisee, les echanges inter-universitaires et inter-
hospitaliers. Nous presentons ci-dessous quelques actions realisees par les jumelages et la cooperation
decentralisee, les universites et les h6pitaux.
6-1 Citees Unies France: par l'intermediaire des ONG Gret et Caritas, Citees Unies France a
developpe un projet d'appui aux villages de la region du Brakna.
6-2 Appui de la commune de Vitrolles A la ville de Kiffa: sur la demande de la commune de
Vitrolles, I'association Sante Sud a developp6 sur un financement de la Cooperation francaise (800.000
FF en 2 phases) un programme de renforcement des structures de soins de sante primaires de la ville de
Kiffa par des missions d'appui intermittentes aux personnels de sante mauritaniens. A noter que ONG a
ben6ficie de subventions du FED pour ses interventions dans la meme region.
6-2 Syndicat d'agglomeration nouvelle de S6nart: Le SAN de Senart et des communes
fran,aises et mauritaniennes s'investissent dans le secteur de la sante depuis 1988. Cette cooperation etait
d'abord concentr6e sur l'hopital de Rosso, dont les locaux ont e  renoves et equipes. Le systeme de
gestion de l'h6pital a et renforce en meme temps que l'introduction du recouvrement des couts. Le
montant des interventions entre 1988 et 1996 s'etablit A 2,45 MF dont 1,15 MF apportes par le SAN de
Senart. L'evaluation en 1994 de la mise en oeuvre de ce volet d'appui a la gestion par le recouvrement
des couts, a conclu A un encouragement des actes de diagnostic au detriment de la qualite des soins qui
laisse A desirer, tandis que la phase therapeutique est mediocre. Cette evaluation a donc recommande
d'ameliorer la qualite professionnelle des agents par des encouragements financiers. II est prevu de
poursuivre ces interventions dans le cadre d'une nouvelle convention couvrant une periode de 4 ans de
1997 a 2000. (cf. infra).



Project Appraisal Document                                       Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                           Annex 2B - Page 13 of 16
3.     Projets nouveaux ou projets dont l'execution doit se poursuivre sur la periode 1998-2000
3-1    Projet FAC d'Appui a I'autonomie des systemes socio-sanitaires mauritaniens: ce projet,
dont la convention de financement a ete signee en 1996, est en phase de demarrage. D'un montant de 16
millions FF, la dur6e d'execution est en principe de 4 ans soit de 1997 A l'an 2000. La plupart des actions
se d6rouleront A l'int6rieur du pays, centrees sur le renforcement des h6pitaux regionaux, la lutte contre
certaines maladies et l'operationalisation des services sociaux regionaux. 11 comprend 3 composantes qui
sont:
* Composante 1, appui a la planification regionale et aux h6pitaux regionaux; coat: 8 MF
* Composante 2: programmes prioritaires de sante publique; coat: 4 MF
* Composante 3: programmes mobilisateurs de developpement social; coat: 4 MF
Les actions identifiees par composante telle que retenue par le comite de pilotage du 27 mai 1997
sonlt decrites ci-apres. Elles s'inspirent toutes des objectifs retenus par le nouveauPlan Directeur 1998-
2002 dont elles representent une des premi&res tentatives de mise en oeuvre.
2-1 Composante 1: Appui A la planification regionale et aux h6pitaux regionaux
Cette composante comprend les activites suivantes:
(i) le suivi des medecins DRASS : l'objectif est de renforcer les capacites de gestion, de
planification et de supervision des medecins DRASS et de celles des medecins-chefs des
Moughata, et d'ameliorer la collecte des donnees du systeme d'information sanitaire regional.
Des moyens logistiques et du materiel de bureautique seront mis A disposition pour completer
l'equipement dejA fourni par la Cooperation fran,aise aux DRASS et permettre la realisation des
missions sur le terrain. Cofit: 1,25 MF.
(ii) le renforcement des DPR et des pharmacies des hopitaux regionaux par la mise en place des
outils d'information de gestion dans les 13 DPR et les pharmacies hospitalieres et la formation et
le suivi de leurs responsables. Ces activites constituent les prealables A l'introduction du systeme
de recouvrement des coats qui est envisage au niveau de 4 hopitaux regionaux des zones
d' intervention de la Cooperation francaise que sont le Tagant, le Trarza, le Brakna et Dakhlet
Nouadhibou.
(iii) la formation des chefs de services regionaux d'hygiene et d'assainissement durant 15 mois dans
differents domaines, tels l'epidemiologie, la lutte contre les maladies transmissibles et la salubrite
de l'environnement. Cofit: 1,25 MF.
(iv) le renforcement des capacites de diagnostic, de traitement et de gestion des h6pitaux regionaux
de Rosso, Aleg, Tidjikja et Nouadhibou pour leur permettre de jouer efficacement leur r6le de
reference. Dans ce cadre les hopitaux regionaux de Rosso et de Nouadhibou seront equipes de
blocs operatoires pour les urgences chirurgicales et obst6tricales. Des outils de gestion et de
supervision seront elabores et des consommables fournis afin de tester la mise en place d'un
systeme de recouvrement des cofits. La formation occupera, cependant une grande place dans ce
volet tant celle des medecins que celle des paramedicaux (majors-surveillants des services
hospitaliers, surveillants generaux, sages-femmes de matemites hospitalieres). Par ailleurs la
formnation de medecins specialistes en chirurgie, pediatrie, medecine polyvalente et urgences sera



Project Appraisal Document                                     Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                          Annex 2B - Page 14 of 16
assuree par l'Institut National des Specialites Medicales ( INSIM ) afin de combler le manque de
specialistes dans les HR. Des missions d'encadrement des activites medico-chirurgicales
decentralisees seront organisees en collaboration avec le C(HN avec l'appui du FAC. Un
programme de formation continue des m6decins exercant dans les h6pitaux regionaux et dans les
centres de sante notamment dans le domaine de l'urgence sera finance, ainsi que la bibliotheque
et le centre de reproduction de l'INSM.
(v) la formation de 12 techniciens biomedicaux affectds dans les regions.
2-2 Composante 2: Programmes prioritaires de sante publique
Dans cette composante, on envisage de financer:
(i) la fourniture d'equipements, de consommables et la formation des techniciens des laboratoires
d'analyses biomedicales des regions du Trarza, du Brakna, du T agant, de Dakhlet-Nouadhibou et
de Nouakchott.
(ii) la formation des 9 medecins-chefs de centres de sante de Moughata de Nouakchott en SMI,
nutrition, lutte contre les MST et en sante publique; la meme formation pouvant etre propos6e
secondairement aux medecins-chefs des 4 regions ciblees.
(iii) la formation des personnels de la zone test du programme national de lutte contre la lepre et la
tuberculose du Trarza avec extension ultdrieure A Nouakchott.
(iv) le suivi de l'enquete MOMA et l'appui au programme de maternite sans risque par l'61aboration
d'un plan d'action par les medecins-chefs et les obstetriciens et l'organisation d'une session de
formation continue pour les sages-femmes.
2-3 Composante 3: Programmes mobilisateurs pour le developpement social
Les objectifs poursuivis dans le cadre de cette composante visent a:
* rendre pleinement op6rationnels les services regionaux charges de l'action sociale par la
formation des chefs de services a l'action sociale des DRASS;
* cadrer dans une premiere etape le champ de la protection sociale en Mauritanie par l'organisation
de Journees de reflexion sur le financement de la protection sociale et le risque maladie; et
* lutter contre la pauvrete par l'organisation de 4 aires de sante dans un quartier de Nouadhibou,
dans les communes de Tidjikja et de Boghe et dans la communauli6 de Idini.
3-2    Convention pour l'utilisation des fonds de contre partie de l'aide budgetaire 1990.
A ce jour, la totalite des fonds de contrepartie correspondant a l'aiide budgetaire de 1990 n'est pas
constituee. Sur les 92 millions UM prevus, le montant disponible est de 53 millions UM. II est envisagd
de les allouer au projet d'appui a la decentralisation dans le Trarza (cf. supra).



Project Appraisal Document                                     Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                         Annex 2B - Page 15 of 16
3-3    Utilisation des fonds de contrepartie de la subvention d'ajustement structurel de 1994
Un budget de 10 millions FF, sur fonds de contrepartie de la subvention d'ajustement structurel
de 1994, est alloue A la construction d'une centaine de postes de sant. Les sites sont en cours
d'identification en fonction des resultats de l'etude sur la couverture sanitaire. S'inspirant des lecons
apprises lors des operations anterieures similaires, I'accent sera mis sur l'utilisation de la main d'oeuvre
locale sous la supervision des collectivites locales et d'operateur(s) independant(s) du type bureau
d'etudes ou ONG choisi(s) conjointement par le maltre d'ouvrage qu'est le MSAS et le bailleurs de
fonds. L'equipement sera mis en place par l'IDA.
3-4    Assistance technique
La Cooperation Francaise continuera de mettre des assistants techniques de divers profils A la
disposition du MSAS. L'effectif des assistants techniques, actuellement de 17 personnes, est reparti entre
le niveau central (5 agents ), la DRASS de Nouakchott (I'agent), le CNH (I agent) et le CHN (10 agents).
L'adaptation de l'assistance technique aux besoins prioritaires du pays passera par differentes dtapes au
cours des prochaines annees: (a) diminution progressive de l'effectif A raison d'une personne par an
environ, (b) reorientation de la fonction par le passage d'une assistance de substitution A une assistance
technique conseil, (c) redefinirions des profils. Aussi, les assistants techniques travaillant au CHN
interviendront pour la moitie de leur temps dans des activites de formation hors de cet etablissement. La
duree du projet est prevue pour 4 ans de 1997 A l'an 2000.
3-5    Cooperation decentralisie
Tout comme dans la precedente convention FAC, il est prevu que des acteurs de la cooperation
d6centralisee, comme l'Assistance Publique/ h6pitaux de Paris et l'Universite d'Aix-Marseille
interviennent dans l'execution de la convention FAC 1997-2000. Selon le nouveau protocole d'accord
recemment conclu, couvrant la periode 1997- 2000, le Syndicat d'agglomeration nouvelle de Senart
poursuivra egalement et etendra ses interventions A d'autres communes des Regions du Trarza et du
Brakna dans le cadre d'un projet d'amelioration de la sante maternelle et infantile. Seront finances dans le
cadre de ce projet : (a) la reconduction de l'aide au fonctionnement l'h6pital de Rosso pour soutenir les
echanges de personnels infirmiers, suivre la gestion et corriger les insuffisances constatees dans la mise
en oeuvre du systeme de recouvrement des couts, fournir des consommables de laboratoire et de
radiologie; cofit: 65.000 FF par an; (b) la construction d'un poste de sante dans la commune de Bababe, la
renovation du centre de sante de R'Kiz et l'equipement d'un petit laboratoire, la renovation/extension du
centre de sante de Mederdra par la construction d'une PMI neuve, la renovation du poste de sante de
Tiguent et de sa maternite, la prise en charge partielle de la rehabilitation/ extension du centre de sante de
Boutilimit prevoyant la construction de 2 salles d'hospitalisation, la renovationl extension du centre de
sante de Keur Macene; cofit: 434.500 FF sur deux ans; (c) la formation des personnels charges des soins
de sante maternelle dans les centres de sante de R'Kiz, Mederdra, Tiguent, Boutilimit, Keur Macene par
une equipe mixte de formateurs infirmiers et sages femmes; coot: 365.500 FF sur 4 ans.
4.     Conclusion
La Cooperation francaise est un des principaux et des plus anciens bailleurs de fonds du secteur
de la sante en Mauritanie. Elle a joue a ce titre un r6le important dans l'amelioration de la situation
sanitaire du pays par l'importance de ses financements et par ses conseils a la mobilisation des autres
acteurs fran9ais (ONG, jumelages, cooperation decentralisee). Aux c6tes d'autres partenaires comme la
Banque Mondiale ou l'Union europ6enne, elle a contribu6 au renforcement du dialogue avec les autres



Project Appraisal Document                                          Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                               Annex 2B - Page 16 of 16
partenaires exterieurs d'une part, a la rationalisation et au developpement du systeme de sante d'autre
part. Les interventions sont elles aussi de plus en plus int6grees avec celles d'autres bailleurs de fonds,
s'inscrivant dans les orientations definies par le programme du Gouvernement.
Elle a entrepris depuis quelques annees de reorienter ses actions vers de nouvelles priorites en
vue de s'adapter A l'evolution de la situation sanitaire du pays, accroitre son efficacite et la viabilite de
ses interventions. Initialement confinees au secteur hospitalier A cause de 1'expertise qu'elle a dans ce
domaine, les actions financees par la Cooperation fran,aise tendent A se generaliser A l'ensemble du
systeme de sante selon une approche de sante publique, tout en visant une plus grande responsabilisation
des collectivites locales dans le financement et l'organisation des soins. Malgre ces efforts d'adaptation,
I'efficacite de I'aide francaise pourrait etre limitee par l'extension du champ d'intervention a l'interieur
du secteur de la sante sans augmentation equivalente du volume de financement. La durabilite des
r6sultats pourrait 8tre compromise par la preponderance de l'assistance technique dont les nouvelles
modalites destinees A accroitre le transfert de competences ne sont d'ailleurs pas clairement definies, et
par les procedures de gestion qui ne responsabilisent pas assez les acteurs locaux.
Les autorites mauritaniennes pourraient, de leur c6te, prendre certaines mesures pour accro"itre
1'efficacite et la perennit6 de l'aide francaise. Ainsi une nouvelle methode de programmation devrait etre
mise en place qui permette d'avoir une vision plus etendue et eviter de travailler au coup par coup.
L'elaboration du Plan Directeur 1998-2002 et du plan triennal glissant et d'autres documents de
politiques et de programmes sous sectoriels devrait y contribuer. Certaines relations, dans la mise en
oeuvre des projets, pourraient etre contractualisees avec des operateurs independants de maniere A
separer les fonctions regaliennes de l'Etat avec celles d'execution par d'autres institutions. La definition
d'un statut des personnels medicaux permettant de valoriser les formations et de faciliter le deploiement a
l'interieur du pays, I'amelioration de l'utilisation des recettes du recouvrement des cofits, et une plus
grande celerite tant dans la mise en oeuvre des activites que dans la resolution des difficultes de travail au
quotidien, constituent quelques unes des autres mesures d'amelioration des resultats des projets finances
par l'aide fran,aise dans le secteur de la sante.



Project Appraisal Document                                        Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                Annex 3 - Page 1 of 1
Annex 3
Estimated Program Costs
Program Component                                        Local       Foreign        Total
-----------US$ million---------------
1. Improve health services quality and coverage            29          43             72
2. Improve health sector's financing and performance       22            9            31
3. Mitigate the effects of major public health problems    33           14            47
4. Promote social action and create and environment         7            2             9
conducive to health
Total                                                      91           68           159
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                    5           3             8
Price Contingencies                                      14          10            24
Total Program Cost                                        110           81           191






Project Appraisal Document                                           Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                  Annex 4A - Page 1 of 6
Annex 4A
Cost-effectiveness Analysis
of the PTHG 1998-2000
for the Health Sector in Mauritania
A.      Health interventions ranked by cost-effectiveness
Definitions
Cost-effectiveness in health care:
* measured in dollars per disability-adjusted life-year (DALYs).
* corresponds to the net gain in health or reduction in disease burden from a health intervention in relation to cost.
Disability-adjusted life-year (DALY):
* a unit used for measuring both the global burden of disease and the effectiveness of health interventions, as
indicated by reductions in the disease burden.
. calculated as the present value of the future years of disability-free life that are lost as the result of premature
deaths or cases of disability occurring in a particular year.
Methods / Sources of data
1.. References
* World Development Report 1993: Investing in Health, (table B.6 and B.7, p. 222-223).
* Better Health in Africa: experience and lessons learned. R.P. Shaw and E. Elmendorf, The World Bank, 1994.
* PTHG 1998-2000, P. Bachrach, 1997.
* StaffAppraisal Report, Rep. of Mozambique, November 1995.
* Jha, Ranson and Bobadilla: Measuring the Burden of disease and the Cost-Effectiveness of Health
Interventions: A Case Study in Guinea. (World Bank Technical Paper # 333).
* Le developpement social en Mauritanie. Olivier Degreef, UNICEF/RIM, 1995.
N.B. The 76% of the target population for communicable disease, especially for malaria, correspond to the adult
population (56%) and the under-five children (20%).
The 54% of the target population for nutritional and endocrine condition interventions include children under
the age of five (20%), school-age children (24%), and pregnant and lactating women (10%). The percentage of
pregnant and lactating women has been calculated, taking into account the crude birth rate for Mauritania and
assuming that the majority of mothers are breast feeding for about 2 years.
2- Methods
The table is divided into 3 components:
* Interventions that can be substantially controlled with high cost-effectiveness: less than US$ 100 per DALY
saved.
* Interventions that can be partially controlled with moderate cost-effectiveness: US$250 to US$999 per DALY
saved.
. Interventions that cannot be controlled in a cost-effective manner: US$ 1,000 or more per DALY saved.
There are few or no interventions in the range of US$100 to US$250 per DALY saved (WDR 1993,
p.222).  The ratio between cost and effect, or the unit cost of a DALY is called the cost-effectiveness of the
intervention; the lower that number, the greater the value for money offered by the intervention.
There are thousands of health care interventions, but only about 50 of them have been analyzed in the WDR
1993. However, these 50 interventions deal with more than half of the world's disease burden. The implementation
of the 20 most cost-effective interventions could eliminate 40% of the total burden and three-quarters of the health
loss in children.
Table I deals only with the basic package of health care inputs, included in the 50 interventions studied in the WDR
1993. The cost-effectiveness of interventions aiming at strengthening the health delivery system was not
determined.



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                              Annex 4A - Page 2 of 6
Table 1: Health Sector PTHG 1998-2000 (Mauritania):
Health Interventions Ranked by Cost-Elfectiveness
Cost-             Nature of interventions            Cost of   US' per life-year    Cost as a    Targeted
effectiveness                                          intervention in   saved (2)   proportion of total population as a
UM '000 (1)               expenditures for proportion of total
ratios of                                                                         the health    population (%)
interventions                                                                        package (/)
High cost-            (1)- Communicable and perinatal:       67011         16.46           18             20
effectiveness:        Diarrheal diseases, ARI, Childhood
cluster: pertussis, polio, measles,
under US$100 per tetanus
DALY saved
Tuberculosis, leprosy                 78,825        50.50            22             56
(2)- Maternal:                        30,714        29.43            8              21
Pre and post delivery care, delivery
care. In patient care: Obstetrical and
Gynecological
(3)- Family Planning:                  2,850         1.07            1              21
Provision of contraceptives. Outreach
family planning services
(4)- Nutritional and endocrine:       12,075        15.90            3              54
Under 5: Protein-energy malnutrition,
Vit. A deficiency
Pregnant and lactating women:
nutrition, anemias
School-age children: Iodine deficiency
(5)- Communicable diseases            84,891        26.01            23             76
STD/HIV, Malaria
Total (1-5)                           276,366        NIA             75            N/A
Medium cost-   (6)- Noncommunicable diseases (cardiovascular, diabetes, obesity) and
effectiveness:   unintentional injuries
US$250 to US$999
per DALY saved
Total (6)                             90,256        045.70          25              56
Low cost-                       None
effectiveness:
US$1000 or more
per DALY saved                                                                      _
GRAND TOTAL                           366,622        N/A            100            N/A
(1): Data from Peter Bachrach: Report on the GOM Three-Year Plan 1998-2000 (July 1997)
(2): Ratios for African countries collected from literature (WDR 93, BHA, Staff Appraisal Report# 14373-MOZ, Jha, Ranson, and
Bobadilla: Measuring the Burden of Disease and the Cost-Effectiveness of Health Interiventions).



Project Appraisal Document                                              Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                      Annex 4A - Page 3 of 6
Conclusions
Most of the interventions are highly cost-effective since interventions with cost-effectiveness ratios under
US$100 represent 75% of the total cost of the program. The other 25% of the budget will be spent on interventions
with medium cost-effectiveness ratios. It is worth mentioning that the Health Sector PTHG 1998-2000 is not
proposing any intervention falling into the category of low cost-effectiveness.
The basic package of health is highly cost-effective, especially the outreach family planning services,
outpatient care for diarrheal disease and immunization.
Many of the most cost-effective health interventions are preventive in character. However, five groups of
clinical services are highly cost-effective and address very large disease burdens. These include pregnancy-related
services, family planning services, control of sexually-transmitted diseases, tuberculosis control and care for the
common serious illnesses of children such as diarrheal diseases, acute respiratory infection, measles, malaria, and
acute malnutrition.
The moderately cost-effective interventions proposed in the Three-Year plan are related to non-
communicable diseases.
Cardiovascular diseases are divided as follows: ischemic heart disease (US$250-US$999 per DALY
saved); cerebrovascular diseases (US$1,000 per DALY saved) and peri-, endo-, and myocarditis (which have a low
occurrence and have not been evaluated for cost-effectiveness).
Diabetes: the cost-effectiveness of those interventions is evaluated at under US$100 per DALY saved.
Obesity: the cost-effectiveness of that intervention-which is related to a specific cultural context of
Mauritania-can be affected by the incidence and prevalence of this disease, and the probability of dying from its
complications. Empirical data to evaluate cost-effectiveness of this type of interventions were not available.
Injuries are divided into unintentional, such as motor vehicle injuries and falls, which have cost-
effectiveness ratio between US$250 and US$999 per DALY saved, and intentional, such as self-inflicted, homicide,
viiolence and war, which have not been evaluated for cost effectiveness and are rather infrequent.
In summary, 75% of the interventions in the area of disease control and prevention are highly cost-
effective, i.e., under US$100 per DALY saved. The remaining 25% are moderately cost-effective, i.e., between
US$250 to US$999 per DALY saved. None of the interventions proposed in the Three-Year Plan falls under the
category of low cost-effectiveness.



Project Appraisal Document                                         Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                Annex 4A - Page 4 of 6
B.     Cost-effectiveness of interventions by type of health problems and consistency of GOM health
care package with BHA and WDR 1993
Methods / Sources of data
1- References
* Better Health in Africa (1994).
*   World Development Report, (1993).
*  Peter Bachrach: Preliminary Report on the GOMHealth Sector Three Year Plan 1998-2000 (July 1997).
2- Methods
Africa's households and communities could become much healthier through three mutually reinforcing
improvements that would enhance the effectiveness of each dollar spent on health, i.e.: package of basic health care
inputs; decentralization of health care delivery; and improved management of the essential inputs to health care,
such as pharmaceuticals, health sector personnel and health sector infrastructure and equipment.
The cost-effective "packages" of services are designed to deal effectively with the most common health problems.
Its purpose is to provide better health at the lowest cost. The basic h-ealth care should be complemented by (1)
supporting services, and by (2) intersectoral interventions. A basic package of health care inputs, supporting
services and intersectoral interventions are essential for maximizing community effectiveness.
In Table 2, the GOM Health Sector PTHG 1998-2000 is divided, similarly to Better Health in Africa, into
the following components:
(1) Basic package of health care inputs
EPI, ante and postnatal care, treatment of maternal morbidity', control of sexually-transmitted diseases,
family planning outpatient care, tuberculosis control, common serious illnesses of children (diarrheal disease, acute
respiratory infection, measles, malaria and acute malnutrition).
(2) Supporting services
Information, education and communication to improve screening for diseases and diagnostic accuracy,
provider compliance and patient compliance.
(3) Intersectoral interventions
Safe drinking water and sanitation. They constitute improvements to the enabling environment for health.
(4) The interventions not included in the three components of the package of basic health care are
presented in section D as Other interventions.
(5) Some of the interventions included in the Plan Directeur 1998-2002, which do not have any cost, are
not included in the tables. Most of these interventions are related to the strengthening of social actions.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                          Annex 4A - Page 5 of 6
Table 2: Cost-Effectiveness of Interventions per Type of Health Problem and Consistency
of GOM Health Care Package with "Better Health in Africa" and WDR 93
Description of intervention proposed in GOM Health Sector PTHG  BHA   WDR 93  Real cost of  Cost as a  Target
1998-2000                                                 package package  intervention  proportion of population
and/or           (UM' 000)     total    (%)
priority            (2)     expenditures
(1)                         for health
______           _package (%)
A- Basic package of health care inputs
Diarrheal diseases, acute respiratory infections, childhood cluster  Y  Y     67,011        18          20
(pertussis, polio, measles, tetanus)
Pierinatal/Maternal causes                                   Y        Y       30,714         8          21
Nutrition/Feeding program: protein energy malnutrition, iodine  Y     Y       .2,075         3          54
deficiency, Vit. A deficiency, anemias
Family Planning (outreach FP services)                       Y        Y       2,850          1          21
Communicable diseases: STD, HIV/AIDS, Malaria                Y        Y       84,891        23          76
Tuberculosis, lepra                                          Y        Y       78,825        22          56
Noncomm. dis.: Cardiovascular, obesity, diabetes, injuries   Y        Y       90,256        25          56
Subtotal                                                                     366,622        100         N/A
B- Supporting services
Geographic and financial access to basic health services to at least    Y  Y  5,092,926     83          80
80% of the population
Availability of well trained personnel in health centers     Y        Y        6,234         0          80
Quality of health care at all levels                         Y        Y      745,116        12          80
Innproved use of preventive services                         Y        Y       113,372       2           80
Strengthening human resources planning and management        Y        Y       37,174         1          80
Resume the process of decentralization of decision-making and  Y      Y       18,490        0           80
management
Develop a health information system                          Y        Y       32,701         1          80
Provision of sound health information                        Y        Y       60,643         1          80
Subtotal                                                                     6,106,656     100          N/A
C- Intersectoral interventions
Assuring safe water, sanitation and food quality control     Y        Y       52,755        83
Irnprove sectorial participation in sanitary development     Y        Y       10,650        17
Subtotal                                                                      63,405        100
Cl- Other interventions
Reinforcing social action:
Setting up an adequate institutional framework                                49,070        48
Assuring an adequate financing of the socio-sanitary system:
Irnprove resources allocation                                Y        Y       37,517        36
Financial resources mobilization                             Y        Y       16,514        16
Subtotal                                                                     103,101       100
(1): Y signifies that the intervention is also recommended by BetterHealth in Africa and/or WDR 1993
(2) Data from Peter Bachrach: Report on the GOM Three-Year Plan 1998-2000 (July 1997).



Project Appraisal Document                                         Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                Annex 4A - Page 6 of 6
Conclusions
(1) Basic package of health care inputs
See conclusions in Table 1.
(2) Supporting services
Supporting services help maximize the value of personal. health care. The IEC component is highly cost-
effective. For example, the cost-effectiveness of the AIDS education program is US$1.67 per life-year saved, of the
tobacco legislation/warning for 10% of the population, it is US$0.31 per life-year saved and of the mother's
education on respiratory infections, it is US$0.40 per life-year saved. (Data for African countries collected from
literature.)
A detailed cost-effectiveness study using data for African countries on supporting services (such as training,
provider and patient compliance, etc.) was not available.
(3) Intersectoral interventions
It had been calculated (Mozambique) that the cost per life-year saved for the construction of pit latrines, is
US$0.33 per household. Safe water supply is US$0.62 per life-year saved per household.
Basic package of health care inputs, supporting services and intersectoral interventions are essential for
maximizing community effectiveness (Better Health in Africa). In this aforementioned package, some of the
interventions have not been studied completely in terms of cost-effectiveness; however, the package has been
emphasized by BHA as very important since "it has reduced total hospital admissions in some communities in
Africa by up to 50% and has cut hospital admissions for such illnesses as measles, tetanus and diarrhea by up to
80%No."
In summary, the interventions presented in the PTHG 1998-2000 correspond to the priority actions
mentioned in both the World Development Report 1993 and Better Health in Africa. Most of them are highly
cost-effective (less than US$100 per DALY saved).



Project Appraisal Document                            Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                 Annex4B -Page 1 of 13
Annex 4B
Economic Analysis
I.    Introduction
The Health Sector Investment Program (HSIP) is based on a new sector policy (Plan
Directeur 1998-2002) and a Three-Year Rolling Plan (PTHG 1998-2000), prepared by the
Mauritanian Government in collaboration with donors and NGOs. The policy aims to provide
accessible and quality health services for the entire population, with emphasis on the rural poor
population, women and children. The HSIP will provide financial support to GOM's policy for
the health sector. Resources will be provided by GOM, beneficiaries, donors, and major NGOs.
IDA contribution to the program will be about 12.5% of the total program cost. This analysis
examines the following aspects of the program: (i) economic and sectoral context; (ii) health
sector expenditures and financing; (iii) cost-effectiveness; (iv) equity; (v) risk; and (vi) capacity.
It is based on data from the: WB Public Expenditure Review, April 1994 (#10973); WB Public
Expenditure Review 1995/1996 (text not yet released); Gilles DesRochers: Public Expenditure
Review for the Health Sector, 1996; Marlene Abrial: the Cost Recovery Study, 1996; CAS for
Mauritania (#16595), PFP for Mauritania (1997-99) and the Health Sector PTHG 1998-2000 and
other data provided by the country economist.
II.    Economic and Sectoral Context
Macroeconomic framework
Over the last three decades, and until recently, economic performance in Mauritania has
fluctuated widely. This is largely a result of droughts, declining international prices of the
country's principal exports (over the last 10 years, Mauritania's terms of trade decreased by 12
%, equivalent to an annual loss of about 0.6 percent of GDP) and weak economic management.
Since 1985, a series of ambitious programs have been launched, to redress imbalances and
restructure the economy on the basis of free market principles. Under these programs, the
Ouguiya (UM) was devalued and key structural reforms in trade, pricing, taxation, public
expenditure, civil service and social sectors were implemented.  Mauritania's shifting
performance during this period demonstrates the degree to which the economy has remained
vulnerable to exogenous factors. Of these, the most significant have been: (i) fluctuations in the
world prices for principal exports, i.e., iron ores and fishery products; (ii) adverse climatic
conditions (drought and desertification) and related plagues (desert locusts); and (iii) variations in
international aid. Mauritania's debt burden has also been a significant factor. Among the
endogenous factors are Mauritania's narrow resource base (limited to iron ores and fisheries and
to agriculture which has poor prospects) and the insufficiently developed private sector.
Demographic factors have also contributed, as there is important population growth and
excessively rapid urbanization. Despite this vulnerability, during the last ten years, Mauritania
has successfully managed a major transition to economic and political liberalization. As a result,
public finances have been stabilized, and structural reforms, as mentioned above, largely
completed. Mauritania's GDP has grown by about 4.6 percent per annum over the last five years.
Moreover, as a result of economic growth and of a conscious effort to reorient public resources to
the social sectors, many education and health indicators have started to improve.



Project Appraisal Document                               Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                     Annex 4B - Page 2 of 13
Just as economic growth has been fundamental to the general health gains, the converse
also increasingly appears to be true. There is a growing body of evidence that health gains in
Mauritania have contributed to development and particularly to the economic enrichment of the
lowest income groups. Strengthening and further developing Mauritania's health system are,
therefore, important to supporting a progressive economic reform.
Links to CAS
As stated in the eight PFP 1997-99 for Mauritania, of July 2, 1997, the Government's
strategy for the medium term is to improve the standards of living and reduce poverty through
private sector-led growth. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Mauritania (#16595),
presented to Board in March 1997, fully supports the Government's efforts in reducing poverty,
and its key strategies (objectives) to achieve this goal, i.e., to increase human capital. Actions
and progress benchmarks, mentioned in the CAS, are: (i) tc develop basic and referral health
services (with emphasis on remote areas); (ii) to make available adequate reproductive health
care services and increase the use of modem contraceptive methods; and (iii) to develop
preventive services (the CAS specifically mentions immunization rates and nutrition). The health
sector strategy and the proposed project are identified in the CAS.
Rationalefor Public Intervention and Finance
The characteristics of the health care market may prevent private providers to render all,
or the majority, of services needed by the population, as :For many services there may be
important market failures. In Mauritania, imperfect information, limited access to services,
problems with affordability, and lack of knowledge in consumers regarding health matters
contribute to market failures. This is generally the case of health services of benefit to the
community as a whole (i.e., public goods, such as safe drinking water and sanitation) and of
services with significant externalities for which there is low consumer demand and high price
elasticity. Disease prevention is an example of such latter service. For example, immunizations
against infectious illnesses protect the immunized persons but also decrease transmission of
infectious diseases to the remaining population. The demand for such services is generally low,
especially in low-income countries. As a result, the private sector usually does not provide
immunization services; the public sector does it, and because of consumer's little willingness to
pay, excludes these services from cost recovery (to protect the entire population from the risk of
infectious diseases). Consequent to this situation, the private sector's role in many developing
countries, including Mauritania, is limited to the provision of curative care to the better off urban
population. In sub-Saharan Africa, strong solidarity among the members of large families,
palliate this situation, as-in many cases-a relative will pay for the sick person. However this
applies, more often than not, to curative care. The public sector, therefore, has an important role
to play in providing basic health services to the needy.
In the context of Mauritania, public interventions in the health sector have a strong
rationale because of: (i) poverty; (ii) a weak private sector, which charges unaffordable prices
(drugs in private pharmacies cost eight times more than similar drugs in public sector) and which
is mostly concentrated only in two relatively developed cities; (iii) low demand for preventive
services and public health goods; (iv) strong seasonality of revenues for the rural population; and
(v) important problems of accessibility. The public sector's medium-term goal, (i.e., to ensure
affordable and adequate basic services to the entire population and especially to the poor) is,
therefore, timely and relevant. It should be noted that the public sector in Mauritania is being



Project Appraisal Document                            Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Maurtania                                                  Annex 48 - Page 3 of 13
extensively and increasingly funded from private resources through cost recovery (which
operates at all levels of the health delivery system). Revenues generated through cost recovery
are managed by the respective health facilities, and consumers and local administrative
authorities, are increasingly involved in decision on the use of these funds and-more
generally-in decision-making about health in their respective geographical areas. As already
mentioned, the sector policy also supports the development of the private sector, which has
recently started to grow in the capital city. The gradual set-up of pre-payment arrangements, is
also opening a possibility to subcontract with the private sector part of the service delivery.
Adequacy of the Sector Policy Framework
Since the beginning of the 1980s, the Government's sector strategy has been oriented
towards the provision of preventive and primary care services to the population. Over the last
years, the government has been taking the lead in defining the sector policy and has issued two
sector programs. The Plan Directeur 1991-1995/6, has been recently evaluated and a new Plan
Directeur 1998-2002 has been launched. The main strategies include: (i) improvement of health
services quality and coverage; (ii) improvement of health sector's financing and performance;
(iii) actions to mitigate the effects of major public health problems; (iv) strengthening of social
action programs and promotion of an environment conducive to health. This new sector policy is
a continuation of the strategies launched with the opportunity of thePlan Directeur 1991-1995/6
(see also PAD part B paragraph 2).
The Plan Directeur 1998-2002 and its operational framework, the PTHG 1998-2000, are
the products of widespread consultations and have received the endorsement of numerous
stakeholders, including the donor community. The program is comprehensive and visionary, has
well defined sector priorities, and addresses issues of service provision, quality, efficiency, and
equity. Financing mechanisms and overall financing problems are also addressed. Under this
framework, the government maintains its leading role in health sector reform and has strong
ownership of the program. The role of MSAS is clearly defined as being one of policy making,
financing, and monitoring and regulation, while health care itself is being provided by a network
of decentralized services. Private provision of care, including use of traditional medicine, is also
envisaged. The harmonization of multiple donor projects into a sector-wide approach, under the
leadership of MSAS will gradually reduce the duplication brought about by the coexistence of
various donor-driven projects and will strengthen local capacity in health services planning and
management. Lastly, monitoring and evaluation instruments have been designed and will be used
in annual program reviews and evaluations. The analysis of the PTHG (presented in Annex 4A)
also proves the adequacy of the sector policy to the health problems of the Mauritanian
population and the user of cost-effective intervention strategies.
III.   Health Sector Expenditures and Financing
To assess the affordability of the national health sector investment program, the
Government has carried out analyses of MSAS budget and expenditures, donor aid, and of
beneficiary financial contributions. Moreover, projections were made for costs likely to be
generated by the activities planned under the program. A summary is presented below (see
table 1).



Project Appraisal Document                              Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                   Annex 4B - Page 4 of 13
Trends and structure of health sector expenditures
While budget allocation to the health sector during the last five years has fluctuated, there
has been a high execution rate (90 percent in 1993, 66% in 1994, and 99% in 1995). This has
translated into expenditures per capita which compare well vvith other low-income countries (in
nominal terms from US$5.37 in 1993 to US$9.49 in 1995). The situation of the recurrent budget
was also encouraging, as the share of the health sector's recurrent budget compared to total
government recurrent budget has been increased from 5.27 percent in 1993 to 6.42 percent in
1996 (or to 7 percent, if one takes into account the NISAS share from the "depenses
communes"). Furthermore, with the exception of 1995, the recurrent budget execution rate was
over 90 percent. In addition, the share of salary expenditure was controlled since non-salary
recurrent expenditures were constantly maintained over 35 percent of total recurrent health
expenditures. For the health investment budget (the Budget consolide d'investissement (BCI)),
the situation has been somewhat different. The internally-financed part of theBCI has increased
(with the exception of the year 1996, when it decreased drastically), while the donor-financed
part, which has represented between 85 and 98 percent of the 13CI, has fluctuated. The execution
of the health investment budget (with the exception of 1994) was modest, and indicates a need for
stronger commitment from both Government and donors and better donor coordination. To this
end, a sector investment program seems to be the answer.



Project Appraisal Document                              Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                    Annex 4B - Page 5 of 13
Table 1. Mauritania - Health public sector budget and expenditures
1993               1994               1995                 1996
Allocated Executed  Allocated  Executed  Allocated Executed Allocated
Total public health (MSAS)            1535      1393     2836      1871     2836    2804       2243
Current health                        1057      1027      1242     1241      1315     1494     1357
Salaries                            682       638       705      719       792      914      767
Non-salaries                        375       389       537      522       523      580      590
Investment health (BCI)                478      366      1594       630     1521      1310      886
Externallyfinanced                  439       339      1481      533      1331     1145      846
Internally financed                  39        27       113       97       190      165       40
Total public government              37789    37486      38797    34624    41198   36658    43093
Total recurrent government           20058    19482      19207    19573    20098   20240    21142
Salaries                           6441      6436      6700     6700      6968    6970       n.a.
Non-salaries                      13617    13046      12507    12873    13130    13270       n.a.
Total investment government (BCI)    17731    18004      19590    15051    21100    16418    21951
Externally financed               16031      1494    17871      1689    19100    1653    18077
Internally financed                1700    16510       1719    13362      2000   14765      3874
Population                         2147778  2147778  2211473  2211473  2277766 2277766  2341543
Exchange rate (1990=80.6UM/US$)     120.81    120.81    123.58   123.58    129.77   129.77    137.2
GNP deflator (1990=100)             125.97    125.97    134.03    134.03    139.93   139.93   144.69
GNP nominal                         113919   113919    125446   125446   140343   140343   152322
Total health exp.fGNP (%)              1.35     1.22      2.26      1.49     2.02     2.00     1.47
Total health exp./total gov. exp. (%)  4.06     3.72      7.31     5.40      6.88     7.65     5.21
Current health/Current government (%)  5.27     5.27      6.47     6.34      6.54     7.38     6.42
Investment health/Investment gov.(%)  2.70      2.03      8.14     4.19      7.21     7.98     4.04
Health exp. per capita (nominal) UM    715      649      1282       846      1245    1231       958
Health exp. per capita (nominal) US$  5.92      5.37     10.38     6.85      9.59     9.49     6.98
Health exp. per capita (real) UM       567      515       957       631       890     880       662
*      *
Finally, it should be mentioned that donors have financed many activities in the health
sector, without channeling their funds through the public sector budget (they provided for
instance, financial support to NGOs). Such funding supports a mix of investment and recurrent
expenditures. During the period 1993-1995, donors have spent over and above their contribution
to BCI on an average UM639 million per year. This is an important contribution and raises
expenditures per capita in nominal terms by US$1.55 in 1993 (up to a total of US$ 6.92 per
capita) and US$2.09 in 1995 (up to a total of US$11.58).
*      *



Project Appraisal Document                               Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                     Annex 4B - Page 6 of 13
Health expenditures analyses also demonstrate that the budget was used to pursue
GOM's objectives for the health sector, i.e., to deliver services for the benefit of the poor and the
rural population and to develop primary health care. During the period 1993-1996, the budget
spent on primary and secondary care represented about 40% of total health expenditures, and
expenditures for tertiary care and administration were stationary at levels which compare well
with Sub Saharan African countries. Furthernore, with the help of moneys generated through
cost recovery, adequate funding for drugs and maintenance has also been provided. Finally, in
Mauritania, the health sector's budget specifies budget lines for each of the districts. These funds
are discretionary. They have constantly been increased (by 6% a year) and will be further
increased, alongside district management and financial capacity improvements.
Table 2. Health sector expenditures per level of care (%)
Level of care / Year             1994                      1995
Primary level                    35.4                      32.5
Secondary level                   6.0                       8.8
Tertiary level                   33.0                      28.7
Administration                   25.6                      29.9
Total                            100.0                     100.0
Cost Recovery
Since 1992, the Government moved away from a health care system exclusively financed
by the state, unsustainable financially, and with little beneficiary involvement (in cost recovery
and in decision making). The present system is based on: (i) sale of essential drugs prescribed
during consultations in public facilities and (ii) cost recovery for services rendered. It applies to
primary and tertiary health facilities and it is estimated to enc:ompass more than two thirds of the.
population. Secondary care facilities practice cost recovery, but solely for drugs. At present, the
Government is studying the possibility for extension of cost recovery to services rendered also in
district hospitals.
For drugs, the profit rate is over 100 percent of the purchasing price. The funds
generated from cost recovery are retained at the point of collection and used for the
replenishment of drug stocks in health facilities. The remaining 100% complements the
Government's recurrent budget with regards to the maintenance of health facilities (30%),
provides financial incentives for health personnel (30%) and constitute a "security fund" to
provide drugs for the indigent population and/or finance various activities such as supervision,
immunizations etc. (40%). Decisions taken regarding the security fund need to be approved by
the MSAS. In 1996, cost recovery collected in primary health care facilities reached about
UM276 millions (about US$1.9 million), and represented about 50% of the recurrent
expenditures for primary health care during that year. Tertiary care establishments have along
been engaged in this process for several years. This is the most advanced and better regulated
part of the health delivery system. In 1996, income generated from cost recovery at the tertiary
care level reached an amount of UM286 millions in 1996 (about US$1.97).
The existing cost recovery system has proved to be a success. The new program
envisages to improve its performance at all levels and to expand it by introducing cost recovery
for services at secondary care level. However, to ensure the viability of the system, certain



Project Appraisal Document                               Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credft
Country: Mauritania                                                    Annex 4B - Page 7 of 13
weaknesses will to be dealt with such as the: (i) irregular replenishment of drug stocks; (ii)
imperfect accounting of revenues and expenditures; (iii) increase in the average cost of drugs
(about 8 percent yearly); (iv) poor knowledge about MSAS current expenditures at district level;
and (v) large variations in the average cost of treatments among health facilities.
Financing of the program
To project the financial resources of the health sector for the period 1998-2002, the
following assumptions were made:
(i) the MSAS budget, as a share of total Government budget, was assumed to steadily
increase until it reached 8.5% in year 2002. This is a more conservative assumption than
GOM's formal commitment to the sector which is to attain 10 percent by year 2002.
Budget execution is assumed to be close to 100%.
(ii) projections with regard to donor investments were conservatively made assuming that
donor financial contributions to the sector (excluding the proposed IDA investment) will
remain stationary in real terms, at the level of FY95;
(iii) at the primary level of care, it was assumed that (1) cost recovery will concern 80 percent
of the population (instead of 75% currently); (2) a yearly amount of 118 UM per capita
will be spent and recovered for drugs;
(iv) at the secondary level, it was assumed that (1) cost recovery for services will start in
1999; (ii) that 80% of non-wage recurrent expenditures will be financed through cost
recovery, and (iii) a yearly amount of UM73 per capita will be used for drugs;
(v) at the tertiary level of care, it was assumed that (i) 80% of the non-wage recurrent
expenditures is financed by cost recovery, and (ii) a yearly amount of UM122 per capita
will be spent and recovered for drugs; and
(vi) IDA's contribution to the program was calculated by subtracting the contributions of
GOM, donors and beneficiaries from the cost of the entire health sector program for the
period 1998-2002 (the cost of the program was calculated on the basis of the PTHG
1998-2000, and by extrapolating expenditures for FY99 and FY00).
(vii) An amount of US$ 6 million is specifically ear-marked a population census to be carried
out in the period 1998-2000 (see annex 2A (Detailed Program Description) component 4.



Project Appraisal Document                                        Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                               Annex 4B - Page 8 of 13
Table 3: Financial resources for the health sector
1995    1996      1997    1998    1999    2000    2001   2002
GOM            Recurrent              1494    1630      1723    2020    2190    2350    2517   2861
Investment             190       40       19       83      96      110      126    143
Total GOM             1504    1397      1742    2103    2286    2460    2643   3004
Donors         excl. IDA             1739    1980      2102    2135    2200    2266    2334   2402
IDA                      0        0        0      390      900     990      830    640
Total donors          1739    1980      2102    2525    3100    3256    3164   3042
Beneficiaries                         285      450      462      610     627      645      663    682
Sub-total                            3528    3827      4306    5238    6013    6361       6470   6728
Pop. census    GOM                                              16.6    49.8    16.6
Donors (excl.IDA)                               132.8    415   132.8
IDA                                              49.8   132.8    49.8
Total pop. census                               199.2   597.6   199.2
Total                                3528    3827      4306  5437.2  6610.6  6560.2    6470   6728
Exchange rate                        129.8   137.2    142.1   148.6   153.7   167.6   167.5  178.1
Population                        2277766 2341543  2407107 2474506 2643792 2615018 2688238 276360
9
Expenditure/habitant (UM)            1549    1634      1789    2117    2364    2432    2407   2435
Expenditure/habitant (US$)           11.93   11.91     12.59   114.24   15.38   15.43    14.37   13.67
Millions of current UM.
* The period 1995-1997 includes IDA contribution through the current PSP project. This category iicitudes donors contributions to BCI and their
contributions "hors BCI".
Figure 1: Donor, IDA and MSAS recurrent expenditures plus beneficiary
contributions to the health sector
4000    _    _____
3500                                                                    .Donors
re2500 - 
o 2000                        ~'                              -.        I~~u~~lDA (HS P)
.2
E1500
E1500 Va:er:i  X02 -                                                         Gov. reccurrent 
500                         ;*-----....*                             g     : ; < ;; :         ,expenditures + cost'
0.  .                                                 ~~~~~~~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~recoveryI
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Year                                                          j



Project Appraisal Document                               Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                     Annex 4B - Page 9 of 13
Figure 2: Total investment and MSAS recurrent
expenditures plus beneficiary contributions to the health sector
4000
3500
3000 -g                               =u                      + Total iniestment
E 2500                   -                                           (incl. GOM)
3 2000
E 1500                             -                              Gov. recurrent
1000                                                              expenditures + cost
recowry
500                ,      ,.             ,.'_                      _   _
1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002
Year
The following trends can be observed from the above table and figures: (i) the increase
of GOM and beneficiary contributions is steeper than for the donor-contributed budget; (ii) donor
contributions will stabilize towards the end of the period; (iii) IDA contribution will be: (a) small
(about 12.5% of the cost of the total program), (b) very modest in FY98, since the program's
expected effectiveness date is May 1998 and the MSAS capacity will not be fully in place by that
date, and (c) expected to decline after the year 2000. This demonstrates that the Government will
continue to depend on external funding but it will increase its contribution. Beneficiaries will
also play an increasingly important role.
Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery
This program will not lead to modifications of tax instruments. Nonetheless, beneficiary
contributions towards the cost of the program will be substantial. However, as described above,
the cost of services in the public sector will remain affordable. Cost recovery for drugs will
continue along the lines of the present arrangement which proved to function well and to be able
to provide good quality drugs at affordable prices. The indigent population will also continue to
be protected. Affordability of services and consumer's willingness to pay will be constantly
monitored, aiming to make the under-served groups the gainers of this program. During the five
years of the sector's program, the Government will better manage donor inputs (which are
expected to remain important but to slightly decline), and beneficiaries will be increasingly
involved in both decision-making in, and financial support to, the sector. Decentralization will
also play a substantial role in efficiency gains and is a more rational sector development.
IV.   Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
An analysis of the soundness of the entire national sector program, as presented in the
sector policy, was carried out. This analysis has encompassed: (1) the sector policy (Plan
Directeur 1998-2002), recently approved by the Government; (2) the data presented by MSAS in



Project Appraisal Document                              Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                  Annex 4B - Page 10 of 13
its Health Sector Three-Year Plan 1998-2000; and (3) available cost-effectiveness ratios for
health interventions in Africa. Furthermore, the consistency of the GOM policy for the sector
with the minimum package of care described in the World Development Report (1993) (WDR
1993) and "Better Health in Africa" (BHA) was also analyzed.
The analysis (which is presented in annex 4A) demonsitrates that 75% of the interventions
proposed in the Health Sector PTHG 1998-2000 are highly cost-effective, i.e., cost under $100
per DALY  saved.  This group of interventions comprises infectious disease control and
prevention activities. The remaining 25% of interventions are moderately cost-effective, i.e., cost
between $250 and $999 per DALY saved and belong tc, activities in the area of non-
communicable diseases. None of the interventions proposed in the Three-Year Plan falls under
the category of low cost-effectiveness. Furthermore, the interventions presented in the PTHG
1998-2000 correspond to the "minimum package of care" of the WDR and BHIA. They have
important externalities and they address large population groups.
V.    Equity Analysis
The Mauritanian health system promotes equity in the following manner:
The public budget for the sector is preferentially being used to finance expenditures at
the primary care level. A Public Expenditures Review (G. DesRochers) demonstrates that over
30 percent of the expenditures in the sector has been spent on primary health services (i.e. health
posts, health centers in categories A and B) and that expenditures for tertiary care (27 percent in
1996) have decreased during the last four years. The Plan l)irecteur 1998-2002 is pursuing
equity as it foresees that public revenues be distributed with priority to: (i) social sectors; (b)
high cost-effective interventions; (c) primary health care; and (d) services in rural and remote
areas. In other words, the sector policy is of benefit to the sick and poor segments of the
population.
In Mauritania, cost recovery for services and drugs involves all levels of the health
delivery system (contrary to the other African countries in which, more often than not, cost
recovery is developed at primary health care level). As a consequence, the better off population,
which, in Africa, tends to be the primary user of tertiary care services, pays more, as services
rendered in tertiary facilities are more expensive. Conversely, the poor, who usually are the users
of outreach services, pay less and still have access to affordable services of an acceptable quality.
The GOM's strive to improve the quality of primary health care facilities also contributes to
enhancing equity.
The cost recovery system has also succeeded in keeping drugs accessible to the poor.
For instance, despite the fact that essential drugs are sold in the public sector at about two to three
times their procurement price, they are of a better quality and seven to eight times cheaper than
the drugs sold in private pharmacies (since the private sector is currently purchasing drugs from
many producers and wholesalers without being able to perform quality control, and it is using
inappropriate procurement methods). Analyses carried out are showing that annual average
expenditures per capita for primary care were about 145 UM and that cost recovery did not deter
the poor from making use of public facilities.
Cost recovery is not being practiced for preventive services and for curative services
needed in relation to conditions such as tuberculosis, leprosy etc., which have strong public



Project Appraisal Document                              Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
laountry: Mauritania                                                 Annex 4B - Page 11 of 13
benefits. As these conditions affect more frequently the poor, the health system also promotes
equity.
There is potential to convert cost recovery for services into pre-payment arrangements.
Pre-payment will allow for discharging of more preventive services, better protect the poor (as
the affluent groups contribute more to cost recovery), and improve the management of funds.
The objective of introducing pre-payment arrangements is mentioned in thePlan Directeur 1998-
2002, and has-to a certain extent-started to be implemented. For instance, pregnant women
buy a carnet de sante which gives them access to pre-natal (preventive) health services and natal
care. Indigent mothers are exempted from payment.
VI.   Risk Analysis
Risks which may hamper the achievement of the objectives of the Plan Directeur 1998-
2002 fall into two categories: (a) risks due to financial shortfalls mainly as a consequence of
possible weak overall economic performance and donor fatigue; and (b) weak management
capacity at various levels of the health service delivery system. The likelihood of one or both of
these risks occurring is modest, as, from a macro-economic perspective, Mauritania's
performance has been promising during the last years and, generally speaking, donors are
satisfied with their projects in the social sectors and do not plan to reduce their support.
Furthermore, there is a strong commitment to strengthen health sector's management and
administrative capacity and, also, to substantially decentralize decision-making to districts. See
also PAD, part F-Sustainability and Risks-and critical assumption in annex I-Program
Design Summary.
Possible risks include:
Future economic performance may not improve as projected, and may hinder
GOM's capability to implement its overall development plan and to provide adequate funding to
social sectors.  Fluctuations in Mauritania's economic performnance in the last decade
demonstrate the degree to which the economy remains vulnerable to exogenous factors. Of these,
the most significant are: (i) variations in the world prices for the country's principal exports:
iron ores and fishery products; (ii) climatic hardship (drought) and related plagues (desert
locusts); (iii) variations of international aid, particularly important given Mauritania's high
dependency on aid for investments; and (iv) Mauritania's significant debt burden.  The
stabilization and liberalization processes implemented since 1985 have reversed the decline that
the Mauritanian economy experienced in the 1970s and 1980s.  The budget balance and
Mauritania's situation on the intermational market has improved, exports have grown, and-due
to encouraging results in sectoral reforms-a certain reduction in the incidence of poverty has
taken place. The GOM expects to complete its stabilization program by December 1997. The
central objective of the next phase of GOM's reform program, as stated in Government report on
the Journees sous la Khaima and its Priorites du Developpement pour 1997-99 document, is to
reduce poverty through accelerated, private sector-led growth and emphasis on social sectors.
The GOM has set a target of 5-6 percent annual growth of GDP for the period 1997-2000. The
strategy to attain this goal consists of: (i) encouraging a stronger response from the rural sector;
(ii) developing basic urban infrastructure; (iii) promoting private sector development; (iv)
improving the environment to foster employment creation and poverty reduction; and (v)
restructuring and modernizing the public sector. Based on the country's good record in the '90s



Project Appraisal Document                             Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                 Annex 4B - Page 12 of 13
and considering the Government's commitment to poverty reduction, this risk, although
important, seems less likely to occur than in most Sub-Saharan African countries.
Future budgetary allocation for the sector may not be adequate and the program may
be underfunded. The proposed financial plan is based on conservative projections. It considers
an increase of the MSAS budget share of total Government buudget to 8.5 percent by 2002 ( while
GOM has committed itself to increase the health sector's slhare to 10 percent by 2002). As
already mentioned, GOM's record regarding financing of the health sector has been excellent and
the budget execution has improved). Projections with regard to donor investments are also
conservatively assuming that donor financial contribution to the sector will be stationary, in real
terms, at the level of the year 1995. However, donor commitment is strong and discussions with
donors pointed out to the fact that there is no intention, at present, to reduce external funding.
The SIP approach foresees to monitor and annually evaluate sector performance. If needed
(although highly unlikely) the program will be down sized to a core-program. The Letter of
sector policy mentions specifically criteria for priority setting to be used in case of unexpected
budget shortfall. In addition, cost recovery is a success and il: will be expanded. Furthermore,
both Government and the Bank have indicated their willingness to maintain social sectors in the
center of their dialogue.
Decentralization policy may not be implemented as scheduled.  Mauritania is
genuinely committed to decentralizing not only service delivery but also decision making. The
decentralization policy has been consistently pursued, and in 1997 the country is well beyond the
point of no return. Significant political and administrative power has already been entrusted to
walies. In the health sector, important progress have been made with the set-up of district health
administration and district plans. The country's budget specifies allocations for each of the
districts. These funds are discretionary, and will be increased in the future alongside district
management and financial capacity improvements. Moreover, districts have the right to retain
the funds generated by cost recovery and use them, at the level of the respective health unit, to
contribute to recurrent expenditures, provide incentives to the health personnel, replenish drug
stocks and subsidize services for the poor. There is also significant community involvement in
health facility management of, and in decisions regarding, the use of financial resources (Comites
de gestion). The program foresees close monitoring of the budgetary allocation to districts and
support to decentralization. Lastly, overall macroeconomic improvement will contribute to
political stability and encourage Government to continue to decentralize decision making.
MSAS's insufficient capacity to implement its sector program may cause delays. At
central level, especially with regard to matters such as policy development, budgeting, planning,
management, financial management and procurement, the health sector's capacity is indeed still
weak. At present, the sector has launched a new policy and it has finalized the PTHG 1998-2000.
This work has helped strengthen central capacity. Concomitantly, a Plan for Institutional
strengthening has been developed by Government. The implementation of this plan, which will
receive support from Government, IDA and donors (in particular the French Cooperation and
EU), will be closely monitored. With financial support from the current IDA credit, a PHRD
grant and a PPF, actions to strengthen sector capacity are being implemented. Specific measures
taken by Government include the filling of key management posiltions in the MSAS, the setup-
within MSAS-of a DGI and consultant support. The steps agreed upon with GOM also
constitute conditions for credit negotiations and effectiveness. The SIP approach will allow the
program to be periodically evaluated and adjusted. Health sector's administrative performance
will be a central piece of the annual review process.



Project Appraisal Document                            Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                Annex 4B - Page 13 of 13
The quality of services may not substantially improve, especially due to problems
with availability of drugs. MSAS capacity to purchase essential drugs through international
competitive bidding and to manage drug stocks will be strengthened. This issue is among the
problem areas identified in the PRCI. Essential drug policy will be periodically reviewed and
updated. Drug stock and utilization will be included in the Management Information System and
monitored monthly. Specific quality assurance actions will be implemented, and supervision of
health facilities strengthened. Beneficiary assessments will be carried out at two-year interval to
gauge consumer satisfaction with services rendered by public facilities, but also to explore
alternative solutions and the use of the private health sector and traditional medicine.
VII.   Capacity analysis
Part of this issue has also been addressed under point VI on Risk Analysis. At present,
the health sector in Mauritania is weak in respect of matters such as planning, budgeting,
financial management, and donor coordination, since most of these activities are entrusted to MP
(donor coordination and the management of the BCI), to MF (recurrent wage salary), and to
various donor project units (procurement through ICB, for instance). The question of whether
MSAS will be able to manage a comprehensive sector program is, therefore, of outstanding
importance, and has been recognized as a critical point by Government. As answer to this,
actions to strengthen sector capacity are currently being implemented (see also the paragraph
concerning MSAS's insufficient capacity under Risk Analysis).
The work conducted at program preparation stage has offered an opportunity to start
strengthening MSAS's analytical capacity (with the opportunity of the evaluation of the Plan
Directeur 1991-1995/6, of the Study on Needs and Utilization of Health Facilities, Beneficiary
Assessment Survey, etc.), its planning perfornance (as a new sector policy, a PTHG 1998-2000,
a PDIS, a Human Resources Plan were developed, using MSAS staff with support from local and
some international consultants), and its donor coordination function (since donors and NGOs
have been involved in most of the work). The MP and the MSAS also agreed on an intersectoral
committee (involving main donors and NGOs as well) to be used for program preparation work,
and on the main actions necessary to improve health sector administrative performance. The
office of the Prime Minister has also shown interest and participated at meetings.
At the program preparation stage, three consultant missions were carried out and the
PRCI was developed. Based on this Plan, the Government committed itself to creating a number
of new positions, and to gradually strengthen central capacity.  In parallel to this effort,
decentralization of decision-making to district, is also being pursued and will receive adequate
financial support.
IDA has supported capacity-building activities technically, and an PHRD grant and PPF
have been made available to finance the steps agreed upon to take place before credit
effectiveness. The proposed program will continue to lay emphasis on capacity building, and the
sector performance will be monitored and evaluated annually.






Projeict Appraisal Document                                                      Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                                Annex 5 - Page 1 of 1
Annex 5
Financial Summary
Years Ending
(Indicate currency, units and base year)
Implementation Period                        Operational Period
1998   1999   2000   2001    2002         2003        2004      2005    2006   2007
Program Costs
Investment Costs          15.71   19.25   20.28   19.82    19.19       17.27       15.54    13.99   12.59  11.33
Recurrent Costs           17.04   20.57   19.24   19.16    21.34       23.90       26.77    29.99   33.58  37.61
Total                  32.75   39.82   39.52   38.98    40.53        41.17      42.31    43.97   46.17  48.94
Financing Sources (% of total
Program costs)
IDA                        1.38    3.25    3.27    2.61     2.01         1.75       1.77     1.82    1.84   1.80
Cofinanciers               7.13    8.22    7.54    7.34     7.55        5.96        5.57     5.32    5.25   5.41
Govemment                  6.66    7.34    7.79    8.31     9.44        8.87        9.69    10.57   11.54  12.60
User Fees/Beneficiaries    1.92    1.97    2.03    2.08     2.14         1.91       1.98     2.05    2.12   2.19
Total                   17.10   20.78   20.63   20.34    21.15       18.50      19.01    19.76  20.74  21.99
Main assumptions:
Assumptions for investment period:
- Total Government budget for 1995 - 1999 and health budget for 1995 - 1997 are given.
- Total government budget increases 7% annually after 1999. Equally for investment and recurrent budget.
= Total health budget as a share of total Government budget increases steadily until it reaches 8.5% in year 2002.
- Donor investments: Projections are made on the basis of donor investments in 1995 assumed constant (corrected for
inflation).
- Exchange rate: US$1 = 166 UM
 Data relative to foreign aid are collected from the donors and are based on real expenditures in the period 1993-95.
Thereafter donor investment is projected. As share of GNP it is assumed to remain stable: 1.4%.
Cost recovery assumptions:
-- at primary level of care, cost recovery applies to 80% of the population. An amount of UM 118 per capita is
projected until 2003.
-- at secondary level of care 80% of the recurrent expenditures (salaries not included) is financed by cost recovery. An
amount of  UM73 per capita is projected until 2003.    %
-- at tertiary level of care 80% of the recurrent expenditures (salaries not included) is financed by cost recovery. An
amount of UM 122 per capita is projected until 2003.
Assumptions for Operational Period:
* Investment costs will be declining by 10% per year in nominal terms.
 Recurrent costs will be increasing by 12% per year in nominal terms.
* This will give us a total cost that increases in average 4.42 which is less than the average increase during 1998-2002
(which is 5.86%).
Financing sources:
-- IDA - will spend in average US$ 4 million per year.
-- Government - will increase by the same percentage rate as the average increase during 1998-2002.
-- Beneficiaries - maintain the level of 2002 in real terms (inflation rate 1.035)






Project Appraiisal Document                                         Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: MaLritania                                                                 Annex 6 - Page 1 of 9
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
No special exceptions, permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents for
International Competitive Bidding (ICB), since Mauritania's procurement practices allow IDA
procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations. Procurement of works,
goods and consultant services financed by the IDA credit will be carried out in accordance with the
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January and
August 1996) and Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers published in
January 1997. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally would be carried out in
accordance with Mauritania's procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to IDA provided that: (i) any
bidder is given sufficient time to submit bids (four weeks); (ii) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are
clearly specified in bidding documents; (iii) no preference margin is granted to domestic contractors and
manufacturers; (iv) no eligible firms is precluded from participation, regardless of nationality; (v) award
will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder; and (vi) prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft standard
bidding documents are submitted to IDA and found acceptable. IDA's Standard Bidding Documents
(SBD) will be used for all ICB procurements. Bidding documents agreed upon by IDA and used for
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) in the Population and Health Project (PSP) will be used for
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procurements under the program. The Bank's Standard Request
fcor Proposal (SRFP) forms will also be used for the procurement of consultant services. One ICB
contract document and one NCB document for procurement of civil works and goods have been reviewed
and approved by IDA during appraisal and will be approved during negotiations. As part of the Program
Implementation Manual, the MSAS is preparing a draft procurement/disbursement plan for the first two
program years (which actually covers a period of 18 months assuming credit effectiveness in May 1998);
it will be reviewed by, and agreed with, IDA and other donors during negotiations. Further plans after
the implementation period of two years will be reviewed and updated at least one month prior to the start
of each program year. When other donors will gradually (ref. para C.4.d.) become involved in the
program financing, it is expected that NCB will be used without any difficulties as demonstrated in the
current operation.
Civil Works' total cost is estimated at US$ 7.2 million for the whole five year-program. Civil
works contracts financed by IDA during the two first program years, estimated to cost US$ 1.8 million
are for the construction and rehabilitation of health facilities and other infrastructures in the regions,
including Nouakchott. They are estimated to cost less than US$300,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount of US$1.1 million, and would be procured through NCB procedures. Contracts for small works
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 650,000, may be
procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three
qualified domestic contractors invited in writing to bid. The invitation shall include a detailed description
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement
acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings where applicable. The awards would be made to the contractors
vvho offer the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided they demonstrate they have the
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. These contracts would mostly be for
vvorks relating to small constructions such as health posts and replacement or rehabilitation of existing
facilities in rural areas.
Goods' total cost is estimated at US$ 8.0 million, of which US$ 2.2 million financed by IDA
during the first two program years, include health equipment kits, hospital furniture, equipment and



Project Appraisal Document                                          Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                Annex 6 - Page 2 of 9
supplies, training center equipment and supplies, warehouse stacking and operational equipment,
transport vehicles, pharnaceuticals, laboratory reagents and medical supplies, books and learning
materials, as well as office furniture, equipment and consumable. Procurements will be bulked where
feasible into packages valued at US$ 100,000 or more and will be procured through ICB. Procurement of
drugs valued at US$ 100,000 or more may be made through LIB, up to an aggregate total of US$ 1.01
million, from non-governmental organizations which specialize in drugs supply, can ensure the quality of
drugs at all levels of the supply cycle, and have due authorization from primary drugs manufacturers to
supply their products. This procedure tried under the PSP proved to be cost effective and ensured quality.
The Government would have otherwise to rely either on a firm to carry out the required testing or to
make available costly equipment and highly qualified staff in the country. Procurement of office
furniture, vehicles and fuel valued at less than US$ 100,000 up to an aggregate total of US$ 0.22 million
will be procured through NCB. Implementation of the program would require the purchase of relatively
small, mainly consumable items, by MSAS local offices, regional authorities and communities around the
country, which would be difficult and impractical to package and procure following NCB procedures.
Thus, such items (mostly pharmaceuticals, contraceptives, medical equipment, vehicle, furniture and
office equipment) which could not be grouped into ICB packages and costing less than US$100,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$ 0.10 million over the first two program years,
would be procured through the UNICEF Procurement and Assembly Center (UNIPAC) and/or through
the Inter-Agency Procurement Services of the UJNDP (IAPSO) and/or UNFPA; this would be the most
economical and efficient way of procuring small quantities, in particular in case of emergency.
Procurement of small equipment, furniture and vehicles spare parts costing less than US$20,000
equivalent per contract up to an aggregate of US$ 160,000 may be procured through prudent national
shopping (for items available locally) up to US$ 90,000, or up to US$ 70,000 through international
shopping (for those goods not available on the national market) oni the basis of quotations obtained from
at least three qualified suppliers.  Spare parts, operating expenditures, minor off-the-shelf items,
pharmaceuticals and other proprietary items costing less than US$5,000 equivalent per contract up to an
aggregate of US$ 50,000 equivalent, may be procured directly frcm manufacturers and authorized local
distributors.
Consultants' Services and Training financed by IDA during the first two program years would
be for: (i) studies, preparation of bidding documents, works supervision, data collection, design and
operation of accounting systems, audits and impact analysis; (ii) short term consultancies for specific
technical matters such as planning, contractual services and training courses design; and (iii) training,
locally and overseas, of health personnel staff. Consultants financed by IDA, totaling US$1.7 million,
would be hired in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers dated January, 1997. It will be acldressed through competition among
qualified short-listed firms in which the selection will be based on Quality-and Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposal before comparing the cost of the services to be
provided. For audits and services of a standard nature the Least-Cost Selection (LCS) will be the most
appropriate method -- the firm with the lowest price will be selected, provided its technical proposal
received the minimum mark required. Consultants services for assistance on drug procurement and
logistics services and for revision and design of training curricula and modules (estimated at less than
US$100,000 per contract up to an aggregate of US$ 220,000), would be based on Consultants'
Qualifications (CQ), taking into account the consultants' experience and competence relevant to the
assignment. Single Source Selection (SSS) will be exceptionally used for the management of civil
works contracts, the performance of the Demographic and Health Survey (1998 DHS) and to carry out
IDA financed activities of the Population census (scheduled to take place in 1999). The Government of
'Drugs, vaccines and reagents to be procured during the Project's first two years were estimated to value US$0.2 million.
However, since vaccines and drug needs might be more important than estimated, the aggregate total to be procured through
LIB from IDA funding is US$.1.0 million.



Project Appraisal Document                                              Project rTie: Heafth Sector Investment Credit
Country: Maunitania                                                                     Annex 6 - Page 3 of 9
Mauritania proposed to select: (a) AMEXTIPE for the construction contracts management, through a
contract established in accordance with a standard approved by the Bank -- this AGETIPE-type agency
created under the Bank financed "Public Works and Capacity Building Project" has successfully proven
its capacity to manage civil works contracts; (b) the Office national des statistiques (ONS)-- which is the
only local agency having the required qualifications and which had proven its capacity to carry out
services of the same kind under the on-going IDA financed Population and Health Project; and (c) the
UNFPA which is the overall coordinator of the census in Mauritania, is the UN technical agency for
population matters and possesses the specialized personnel needed for this large operation. Services for
short-term or ad hoc consultancies, lectures and small studies which can be delivered by Individual
Consultants will be selected through comparison of qualifications against job description requirements
among those expressing interest in the assignment or approached directly. For training abroad and in-
country, the program -- containing names of candidates, cost estimates, content of the courses, periods of
training, institution selection -- would be reviewed by IDA annually.
To ensure that priority is given to the identification of suitable and qualified national individual
consultants, short-lists for contracts estimated under US$100,000 may be comprised entirely of national
consultants if a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are available at competitive costs.
However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they will not be excluded from consideration. The
Standard Request for Proposal (SRFP) forms as developed by the Bank will be used for appointment of
consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments, simple missions of standard
nature i.e. those not exceeding six months, carried out by individual consultants or firms. The
Government will be briefed during negotiations about the special features of the new guidelines, in
particular with regards to advertisement and public bid opening.



Project Appraisal Document                                                Project Title: HeaKth Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                        Annex 6 - Page 4 of 9
Table A: Program Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(for the first two program years)
(in US$ million equivalent including taxes, duties and contingencies)
Expenditure Category                        Procurement Methoc!                     Total Cost
(incl. conting.)
ICB         NCB         Other        N.B.F
1. Works                                      1.14        0.65                        1.79
(1.08)      (0.62)                      (1.70)
1.1 health infrastructures        -           0.94        0.52           -             1.46
(0.89)      (0.50)                      (1.39)
1.2 other civil works             -           0.20        0.13          -             0.33
(0.19)      (0.12)                      (0.31)
2. Goods                         1.44         0.22        0.51                        2.17
(1.44)      (0.22)       (0.51)                      (2.17)
2.1 medical equipment            0.72           -         0.12           -             0.84
(0.72)                   (0.12)                      (0.84)
2.2 equipment/furniture,         0.72         0.22        0.19           -             1.13
vehicles                    (0.72)       (0.22)       (0.19)                      (1.13)
2.3 pharmaceuticals                            -          0.20           -            0.201
(0.20)                      (0.20)
3. Services                                                1.46                        1.46
(1.46)                      (1.46)
3.1 CW engineer/arch,              -           -          0.80           -            0.80
management/computer                                       (0.80)                      (0.80)
consultancies and audit
3.2 Training, studies,             -           -          0.66           -             0.66
contractual services,                                     (0.66)                      (0.66)
short term consultancies
4. Miscellaneous                                           1.05                        1.05
(0.99)                      (0.99)
4.1 operating costs                            -          0.65           -             0.65
(0.59)                      (0.59)
4.2 PPF refinancing                -           -          0.40           -             0.40
(0.40)                      (0.40)
Total Costs                   1.44         1.36        3.67                         6.47
Total Financed by IDA           (1.44)       (1.30)       (3.58)                      (6.32)
N.B. To be allocated during
the 3rd, 4th and 5th program
year                                                                                 (17.68)
Total IDA Credit (5 years)                                                           (24.00)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed. Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed
by the Bank loan/IDA credit. Total may not add up due to rounding.
'Drugs, vaccines and reagents to be procured during the Project's first two years were estimated to value US$0.2 million.
However, since vaccines and drug needs might be more important than estimated, the aggregate total to be procured through
LIB from IDA funding is USS1.0 million.



Project Apipraisal Document                                             Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Nlauritania                                                                    Annex 6 - Page 5 of 9
IDA Review. All contracts for construction of civil works and purchase of goods above the
threshold value of US$100,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The use of IDA's SBD
would considerably expedite the prior review process as IDA review would primarily focus on invitation
to bid, bid data sheet, contract data, technical specifications, bill of quantities/schedule of requirements
and other contract-specific items. The review process would cover about 65 percent of the total value of
the amount contracted for goods and about 40 percent of the amount contracted for civil works.
Selective post-review of contracts awarded below the threshold levels will apply to about one in three
contracts. Draft standard bidding documents for NCB were reviewed by and agreed upon with IDA
during negotiations. For consultant services, prior review will include the review of budgets, short-lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and draft contracts. Prior IDA
review will not apply to contracts for the recruitment of consulting firms and individuals estimated to
cost less than US$100,000 and US$50,000 equivalent respectively. However, the exception to prior IDA
review will not apply to the Terms of Reference of such contracts, regardless of value, to single-source
hiring, to assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA or to amendments of contracts raising the
contract value above the prior review threshold. For consultant contracts estimated above US$200,000,
opening the financial envelopes will not take place prior to receiving the Bank's no-objection to the
technical evaluation. For contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000 and more than US$100,000
the borrower will notify IDA of the results of the technical evaluation prior to opening the financial
proposals. Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the
borrower for ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions. The MSAS/DGI will be
required to maintain all relevant procurement documentation for subsequent review by IDA. The
MSAS/DGI will submit to IDA periodic procurement schedules detailing each procurement in progress
and completed as part of the normal project reporting exercise.



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Maurtania                                                                               Annex 6 - Page 6 of 9
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review 1
Expenditure          Contract Value                Procurement                Contracts Subject to
Category     l       (Threshold)                   Methods                     Prior Review *
Wrs';, N'Sg04Pa ' 1.    <              '<;00i"    ....           ........   1G   0  $tS -f: ICB    NCB  Other
above US$300,000            X                             Prior IDA review
above US$100,000                    X                     Prior IDA review
below US$100,000                    X                     Post review. Aggregate
above US$50,000          ____                             amount: US$ 1,000,000
below US$50,000                                 X         Post review. Aggregate
amount: US$650,000
above US$100,000            X                    .       Prior IDA review
above US$100,000                              LIB for     Prior IDA review Aggregate
procurement  amount: US$ 1,000,0002
of dirugs
below US$100,000                    X       _             Post review . Aggregate
above US$20,000                                           amount: US$220,000
below US$100,000                             IAPSO or    Post review.
UNIFPAC     Aggregate amount:
US$100,000
below US$20,000                                 X         Post review aggregate
amount for shopping:
National: US$90,000
_______ _ _ _ _International: US$70,000
below US$5,000 direct                           X         Post review. Aggregate
purchase from                                            amount: US$50,000
manufacturers or
authorized dealers
Selection Methods   _    ;;
All TORs or sole source contracts are subject to IDA prior review
Audit, civil works           N/A                   Least Cost Selection      Prior Review
design/supervision  L     __
Firms                 Above US$200,000       Quality and Cost Based Selection  Prior Review + Review of
(QCBS)              Technical Evaluation Report
before opening financial
proposal
Above US$100,000 Below      Consultants' Qualifications  Prior Review +   (i)
US$200,000                      (CQ)               notification of Technical
Evaluation scores, (ii)
combined evaluation report
Drugs logistics,      Below US$100,000          Consultants' Qualifications  Post Review
Design/revise                                             CQ
training modules
and curricula
AMEXTIPE                     N/A                  Single Source Selection    Prior Review
ONS (for DHS)                N/A                  Single Source Selection    Prior Review
Individuals            Above US$50,000           Section V of Consultants    Prior Review
Below US$50,000                 Guidelines            Post Review
I All thresholds stated in this section shall be reviewed by the Borrower and IDA on an annual basis. Modifications may be agreed upon
based on performance and actual values of procurements implemented. Amendments to the Credit Agreement would be required after the
implementation period of the frst two program years.
2 Drugs, vaccines and reagents to be procured during the Project's first two years were estimated to value US$0.2 million. However, since
vaccines and drug needs might be more important than estimated, the aggregate total to be procured through LIB from IDA funding is
US$1.0 million.



Project Appraisal Document                                          Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                Annex 6 - Page 7 of 9
Procurement under the program will be handled by the Direction de gestion des investissements (DGI),
newly created in the MSAS, to assist the Direction des affaires administratives et financieres (DAAF)
and using skills and competencies built under the on-going project (PSP), with the support of short-term
consultants as needed. The design and supervision of all civil works (construction and rehabilitation)
financed by the IDA credit (and also by other donors interested in such arrangements) will be carried out
by consulting firms. This arrangement will be the same as for the current project (PSP) which proved to
be suitable for even a much larger infrastructure component. However, in case the construction program
would expand significantly in scope and geographic coverage and become to heavy a workload for DGI's
staff, the MSAS agreed to use AMEXTIPE on an "as needed basis" through agreement passed in
accordance with standard approved by the World Bank. AMEXTIPE is the Mauritanian Agetipe-type
non-governmental construction contract management entity, established under a World Bank credit. The
DPCS in the MSAS and DRASS in the regions will be responsible for the overall activity planning, the
identification and availability of land (if required), the preparation of equipment lists and any other
information needed by DGI to prepare bidding documents for the procurement of goods, or terms of
reference for the selection of consultants as well as the evaluation of their performance from the technical
point of view. All technical specifications for medical equipment are currently being prepared by a
specialized consulting firm and will be submitted to IDA for review before negotiations. Information
related to civil works will be transmitted by the DGI to the firm(s) in charge of the preparation of detailed
design and bidding documents for works.  Also, to facilitate implementation, small and urgent
procurement may be done through IAPSO and through UNIPAC or other non-govemmental
organizations (as long as it is the least cost solution) -- in accordance with the provisions described below
for the procurement of goods. For all other procurement handled by the DGI, the procurement methods
described below and summarized in Table A will apply.
Conditions for negotiations are mentioned in PAD - section G. During negotiations, agreement
was reached on the proper monitoring of procurement, as well as the standard procurement documents to
be used for NCB. The Government gave assurance at negotiations that it will: (a) use the Program
Implementation Manual for Project Implementation; (b) use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for
ICB; (c) apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined in the above documents; and (d)
review the procurement plan and procurement arrangements each year (immediately after the annual
review with IDA and other donors and before the beginning of the next fiscal year). During
implementation, all bidding documents, bid evaluation reports, and draft contracts transmitted to IDA for
review will contain an updated copy of the procurement planning. Procurement information will be
collected and recorded as follows:
(a) prompt recording of contract award information by the Borrower; and
(b) semi-annual reports to the Bank by the Borrower indicating: (i) revised cost estimates for
individual contracts and the total program, including best estimates of allowances for
contingencies; (ii) revised timing of estimated procurement actions, including experience with
completion time and completion cost for individual contracts; and (iii) compliance with
aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
A detailed procurement plan for works, goods and services to be procured under the two first
program years was prepared and will be agreed during negotiations. It will be updated and reviewed on a
regular basis during annual reviews. The Government gave assurance at negotiations that it will take the
necessary measures to ensure that procurement phases do not exceed the following target time periods:



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                                 Annex 6 - Page 8 of 9
Maximum number of weeks
*   Preparation of bidding documents                  4 (12 for large contracts)
*   Preparation of bids by bidders                    4 (6 for IC13)
*   Bid evaluation                                    2 (4 for large contracts)
*   Signature of contracts                            2
*   Payments                                          4
Disbursement
The proposed allocation of the credit is shown in Table C. The IDA credit will be disbursed over
a period of five years (from 1998 to 2003), with a closing date of June 30, 2003. The estimated
disbursement schedule is shown in Table D. All applications to withdraw proceeds from the credit will
be fully documented, except for contracts not subject to prior review by IDA. For the rest, disbursements
will be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) certified by the Director of the DGI/MSAS.
Supporting documentation will be retained by DGI/MSAS and will be available for review as requested
by IDA supervision missions and program auditors.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category                   Amount in US$              Financing Percentage
rmillion
1. Works                                                 1.70                         95%
2. Goods (including Medical equipment, drugs,            2.15            100% of foreign and 95% of local
reagents, office equipment, vehicles, and                                          expenditures
furniture)
3. Services (including long term TA, short term          1.45                         100%
consultancy, civil works contract management
and training)
4. Operating Costs 1/                                    0.60                          90%
5. To be allocated during the 3rd, 4th and 5th           17.70
program year
6. PPF                                                   0.40
Total IDA credit                         24.00
1/      Operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred on account of program implementation, management and supervision,
including office supplies, office equipment and vehicles operation and maintenance, contractual services and travel and allowances including
those for trainers and trainees, but excluding salaries of officials of the borrower's civil service.



Project Appraisal Document                                                Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                       Annex 6 - Page 9 of 9
Table D: Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit (US$ million)
IDA       1998   1999   2000  2001   2002   2003
Fiscal Year
Annual       1.00   4.70   5.10   5.70   5.90   1.60
Cumulative   1.00   5.70   10.80  16.50  22.40  24.00
Cumulative   4%!    24%    45%   69%    93%   100%
A Special Account will be opened for the IDA credit and maintained with a commercial bank,
acceptable to IDA. The maximum balance in the Special Account will be US$300,000, which will cover
about 4 months of expenditures, to be disbursed from the Special Account.






Project Appraisal Document                                            Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                  Annex 7 - Page 1 of 1
Annex 7
Program Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Program Budget (US$000)                           Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
FY97                                                   137.2                 137.2
FY98                                                   135.5                 30.8
B. Program Schedule                                  Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time Taken to Prepare the Program (Months)
First Bank mission (identification)                   06/1995              06/1995
Appraisal mission departure                           11/1997               10/1997
Negotiations                                          11/1997               02/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                         04/1998              05/1998
Prepared by:
Ministry of Health and Social Affairs & Ministry of Planning
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant (US$400.000 equivalent); French Cooperation (six consultant missions fees); Belgium
Trust Fund (one consultant mission fees). A PPF (US$400.000) is also available (not yet used).
Bank Staff Who Worked on the Program Included:
Name                                       Specialty
Sergiu Luculescu                              Public Health
Slaheddine Ben-Halima                         Procurement & Implementation
Astrid Helgeland-Lawson                       Health Economics
Bernard Abeille                               Procurement, Implementation, Sector Capacity
Ousmane Bangoura                              Public Health
Souleymane Sow                                Implementation
Miguel Saponara                               Economics
Tom Merrick                                   Lead advisor
Theresa Ho                                    Peer reviewer (Public Health)
Jo Martins                                    Peer reviewer (Health Economics)
Wolfgang Chadab                               Disbursement
Hans-Werner Wabnitz                           Legal
Roselyne Leroy                                 Staff Assistant






Project Appraisal Document                                          Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                Annex 8 - Page 1 of 1
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File*
A. Program Implementation Plan
*  Will be part of the Program Implementation Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*  Mission Aide-Memoires of November 1996, February 1997, June 1997 and November 1997.
C. Other
*  Country Assistance Strategy for Mauritania (WB, May 1997, #16595);
*  Policy Framework Paper 1997-1999 (WB, July 1997, SecM97-581);
*  Rapport d'Evaluation du Plan Directeur de la Sante et des Affaires Sociales 1991 (2)-1994 (5)
(MSAS, Version Finale);
*  Plan Directeur de la Sante et des Affaires Sociales 1998-2002 (MSAS, Version Finale);
*  Beneficiary Assessment;
*  Plan de Developpement des Infrastructures Sanitaires 1998-2002 (MSAS, September 1997);
*  Plan d'operation annuel 1998 (MSAS, September 1997);
*  Recapitulatif des interventions des bailleurs de fonds du secteur de la sante A l'exception des
interventions de l'IDA de 1985-1997 (MSAS, September 1997);
*  Plan Triennal 1998-2000;
*  Plan d'Action pour le Renforcement de la Capacite Institutionnelle du MSAS (A. B. Sy);
*  Financements des Partenaires Exterieurs dans le Secteur de la Sante en Mauritanie pour la periode
1998-2000 (Dr.O.Bangoura, September 1997);
*  Revue des Depenses Publiques de Sant6 (Gilles DesRochers, September 1998);
*  Revue des Depenses Publiques de Sante. Recouvrement des Couits. (Marlene Abrial, Mars 1997);
*  Seconde Revue des Depenses Publiques (WB, Octobre 1996);
*  Public Expenditure Review (WB, April 1994, #10973);
*  Plan de developpement des ressources humaines et de la formation. (Jean-Pierre Manshande,
November 1997)
* Including electronic files.






0-U
Status of Bank Group Operations in Mauritania
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
L2
3
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                             disbursements a/
Project ID      Credit      Year                Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                                 IBRD         IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed          Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 37
Active Loans
MR-PE-1874    IDA28872       1998   MINISTRY OF PLAN                    PUBLIC RESOURCE MGMT               0.00         .40             0.00            .41        1.20       2.72
MR-PE-1875    IDA29650       1997   GOVERNMENT                          RAINFED NAT RES MGT                0.00       18.00             0.00         17.84          .32       0.00
MR-PE-46650   IDA29710       1997   OMVS                                REGIONAL POWER                     0.00       11 .10            0.00         10.95         5.34       0.00
MR-PE-1874    IDA28870       1996   MINISTRY OF PLAN                    PUBLIC RESOURCE MGMT               0.00       20.00             0.00         10.61         1.20       2.72
MR-PE-34106   IDA28350       1996   ISL. REP. OF MTA                    INFRAST & PILOT DEC.               0.00       14.00             0.00         11.21         7.10       0.00
MR-PE-1857    IDA27060       1995   GOVT OF MAURITANIA                  GENERAL EDUCATION PR               0.00       35.00             0.00         21.64         8.20       0.00         CD
MR-PE-38661   IDA27300       1995                                       FIN/PRIV.SCTR.CAPACI               0.00        7.20             0.00          3.72         3.28       2.51
MR-PE-1864    IDA25750       1994   GOVERNMENT                          AGRIC SERVICES                     0.00       18.20             0.00          6.94         1.49       0.00         CD
MR-PE-1870    IDA24550        1993   GOV'T OF MAURITANIA                CONSTRUCTION CAPACIT               0.00       12.00             0.00            .79         .07       0.00
MR-PE-1872    IDA25210        1993   GOVERNMENT                         TECHNICAL/VOCATIONAL               0.00       12.50             0.00          7.48         6.80       0.00
MR-PE-1855    IDA23110        1992   GOVERNMENT                        ,POP HEALTH                         0.00       15.70             0.00          1.60          .27       0.00         0
MR-PE-1867    IDA23890        1992   GOVT OF MAURITANIA                 WATER SUPPLY                       0.00       10.50             0.00          3.91         3.57       3.57
MR-PE-1839    IDA21670       1990   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURI           P.E. SECTOR INST DEV               0.00       10.00             0.00            .01        -.90       -.91
Total                                                                                                      0.00      184.60             0.00         97.11        37.94      10.61              X
tn 't
Active Loans         Closed Loans             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   85.33               450.21              535.54
of which has been repaid:                    0.00              157.34               157.34
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  184.60               279.88               464.48
Amount sold                                         0.00               63.35                63.35
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                63.35               63.35                                                                                          C
Total Undisbursed                 :                97.11                0.00                97.11
-0
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see 00 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Impleimientation Suimiary (Fofm 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU - highily uwisatisfactory): see proposed  limprovements in'
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
10
Note:                                                                                                                                                                                                    a.
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.                                                                                                                              9r
c 



V'



Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Projec:t Appraisal Document                                Annex  10                                                 Annex 1 0 - Page I of 2
Country: Mauritania
Mauritania at a glance                                                              8/28197
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan    Low-                                          ._
Mauritania    Africa  income      Development diamond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                       2.3       600    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                            470       490      500                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                              1.09      294    1,601                      T
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                       2.5        2.7      1.7     GNP                            Gross
Labor force (,%)                                     2.7        2.6      1.7     per                           pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                          capita      N)             enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (' of populahon)             50
Urban population (% of total population)              54        31       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      51        52       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              96        92       69               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water (% of populatbon)                41        47       53    l
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  66        43       34          -     Mauritania
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populabon)  74        72      105
Male                                                81        78      112                Low-income group
Female                                              66        65       98     _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985       1995    1996
Economic ratios
GDP (millions USS)                        475.9   683.2   1,067.7  1,093.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP               34.5    28.9       18.1    22.0              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP           39.0    60.8       50.4    53.6
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  13.0     8.8        7.0    13.9
Gross national savings/GDP                  19.1      9.6       9.3    17.3
Current account balance/GDP                -13.3   -19.2       -8.8    -4.7                      A
Interest payments/GDP                        1.1     4.0        3.0       ..    Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                              39.5   217.4      231.1
Total debt service/exports                  22.1    24.3       19.8       .
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..      ..    157.8
Present value of debt/exports                 ..      ..    288.8                            Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96    1995      1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                    Mauritania
GDP                                 1.7      2.9     4.7        4.7      5.4               Low-income group
GNP per capita                     -0.9      0.7     1.3        2.1      2.9
Exports of goods and services       7.9    -0.5    12.6        7.1      2.5                                             1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                 1975    1985       1995    1996       Growth rates of output and investment 
Agriculture                                 29.6    22.5       25.5    25.5      40 7
Industry                                    34.1    32.9       31.5    31.4      20
Manufacturing                               ..    12.9       10.9    10.9
Services                                    36.3    44.6      43.0    43.1       -      91   92   93           95   96
Private consumption                        67.3    74.9       82.9    76.3    -0
General govemment consumpton                19.7    16.2       10.0      9.9                    GOI   4GOP
Imports of goods and services              60.4    80.8       61.5    61.8   |
1975-85  1986-96     1995    1996
(average annual growth)                                                          Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                  3.4     2.6        5.0      3.5     z0
Industry                                     1.8     2.3        4.9     3.1
Manufacturing                               ..      0.2      10.4      8.9     10
Services                                     0.7     3.5        4.5      6.9                      A
Private consumption                          2.4     2.3        1.5    -3.0      10
General govemment consumption               -6.6     0.7        0.0     3.1
Gross domestic investment                   -2.0    -1.7       31.3    26.9    -20
Imports of goods and services               2.0    -3.0        14.8     3.1              -     Exports    Imporls
Gross national product                       1.7     3.3        4.0      4.6    _
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                                                                         Annex 1 0- Page 2 of 2
Mauritania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                        _______________
1975     1985       1995     1996 
Domestic pnces                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Inflation(%
(%/ change)                                                                          15 
Consumer prices                                 ..6.5                        4.7     1.
Implicit GDP deflator                         15.0      10.2       4.3       3.6
Government finance
(-A of GOP) 
Current revenue                                  ..     24.5      24.0      28.8             9t   92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                           ..     -4.9       6.1      11.2              *-GDP def.   4  CP
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..      14.6       0.1       5.3
TRADE                                                                                _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _
1975     1985       1995     1 996
(millions US$)                                                                       Export and import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                              ..     378        493      485      500,
Commodity I - Iron ore                                10         17       27        4
Commodity 2 - Fish                             ..     225        280      277
Manufactures                                                                       3
Total imports (cif)                             ..      334        417      435      20-
Food                                           ..      93         94       99
Fuel and energy                                        4           0       3        0
Capital goods                                          8           5       6 
Export price index (1987=100)                   ..       99        129      129           90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=1 00)                  ..       91        134      136                   m Exports    Mlmports
Ternms of trade (1987=100)                      ..      109         97       95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
`1975    1985      '1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                  185      415        539      587
Imports of goods and services                  278      552        656      676   I
Resource balance                               -92     -137       -117      -89
Net income                                     -30      -52        -53      -56      -5
Net current transfers                           59       58         76       94
Current account balance,                                                              0
before official capital transfers            -63     -132        -94       -51
Financing items (net)                                   10         12         1
Changes in net reserves                          5       2         -3         0      1
M em o:                                                                             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Reserves including gold (mill. US5$)            48       63         90      145
Conversion rate (local/US$)                   43.1      77.1     129.8    137.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS________________
(millions US$)                               17        195         95      196       Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           188    1,485      2.467                              G   A
IBRD                                           0       53        11         8                 Fs. 184  81
IDA                                           14       62       336       359                 836
Total debt service                              42      102        116        ..C
IBRO                                           9       10         3         3                                    100
IDA                                           0         1         4         4
Composition of net resource flows
Ofricial grants                              47       127       135        ..0
Ofricial creditors                            14       54        43                                               1
Private creditors                             8         2         0E
Foreign direct investment                  -123         7         3                        16
Portfolio equity                               0        0          0
World Bank program
Commitments                                    8       31        72        35      A - IBRO                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 2         6        31        36      B-IDA    0 - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          9         6         4         4      C -IMF                      6 - Short-term
Net flows                                     -7        0        27        32     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Interest payments                              0        5          3        3
Net transfers                                 -7       -5        23        29
Development Economics                                                                                                  8/28/97



Project Appraisal Document                                 Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania              Amex I I                                 Annex 1t - Page 1 of 7
Letter of Sector Policy
RWpublique islamique de Mauritanie                    llonneur-Fraternitc-Justicc
A
Monsieur Jean Louis SARBIB
Vice-President de la Rigion Afriqtte
Banque Mondiale - Washington
Oblet - Lettre de Politique dc developpement du Secteur dc la Sante
Monsieur le Vice-Prdsident,
Lc Guuvernczneznt de la Republique Islamiquc de Mauritanie so fdlicite de sa
collaboration fructueusc avec la Banque Mondiale et de l'appui que votre organisation lui a
apporte dans la mise en oeuvre du Projet Sante Population (cr6dit 231 1 MAU),
Ce projct constitue la premiere intervention financee par la Bainque dans Ic secteur de la
Sant6 en Mauritanie. Exdcut6 avec un succes certain, il a permis d'accomplir les progrEs
appr6ciables dans Ic fonctionnement du sectaur de la santd et d'ameliorcr l'etat de sant6 des
populations. Cherchanit a rentabiliscr les investissements realis6s, notre Gouvernemeni a d&cidc
A travers l'4laboration d'un Plan Directeur 1998- 2002  de mettrc cn oeuvre unc nouvelle
strategie sectoriclle de d6veloppcinent sanitaire ct de requ&rir le soutien de tous scs parteniaires
cxternes et intcrncs en vue de soni financement. La pr6paration de cc plan qui a connu une
participation activc dc -toutes les partics concernees (Gouvernement, socidtd civile, partenaires
extcnrcs, ONG, agents de sante) est niaintenant achevec. Cc document, qui vous a ete transinis
par lettre officielle N 000621  en daLe du 22 Septembrc 1997, guidera Ic developpement
sanitaire et harmonisera les intervcntions de tous Ics partenaires opcrant dans le secteur.
La prdscnte lettre a pour objectif de vous exposer succinctemnent les principales
orientations contenues dans le Plan Directcur et de preciser Ics engagements du Gouvemnement
en faveur du sccteur de la sante.
I



Project Appraisal Document
Country: Mauritania                                          Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Annex 1 1 - Page 2 of 7
En eflet, durant la p6riode couvelte par le plani, les objectifs du Gouvernement sont
d'assurer le rncilleur etat de sante possible des populations ct de mettre Cll place les bases d'un
developpement durable du secleur sanitaire. Pour ce faire, notre politique de sante sc fondce sur
l'utilisation de stratigies a n-eilleur couia I efficacit6 tclles que la stratc6gie des soins de sante
primaires et l'linitiative de Bamako. Elie se fondc ainsi sur les engagements intcrnationaux pris
par le 'pays dans le domainc de la sante et dans les domaines connexcs. Elie complete ct
renforce les dispositions pertinentes contenucs dans la d6claration de politique de population,
dans la strat6gie nationale de promotion des fenimcs et dans ila strategie de lutte contre la
pauvrete. Elle sc propose dc fairc acceder la majorit6 de la population mauritanienne aux soins
essentiels dont ele a besoin. Dans le souci de r6pattir equitablerrent les fTuits de la croissance
economique, les cibles principales en seront les femmnes ct les cnfants et plus largeineit, les
personnes et les familles defavorisdes ou en situationi de pr6caritd et celles vivant danis les zones
reculees.
Pendant la periodc quinquennale 1998-2002, l'une des priorites du Gouvernement sera
de renforcer la couverture saiitair-c aux niveaux primaire, secondaire et tertiaire afin de garantir
l'acces a au moins 80% dc la population aux services socio-sanitaires le plus pres de leur lieu
d'habitation. Un plan dc developpement dcs infrastructures saiiitaires a ete elabore afin dc
definir plis pr&cisernnt Ics besoins a satisfaire. Notre Gouvernement s'engage a poursuivre
l'executioii dc ce plan et dc l'utiliser afin d'harnouiser les interventions de toUs lei parlenaircs
au developpemcnt. Pour animliorer l'olfre et la qualite des services, il a 6t6 dcfini pour cliaque
type de foimations socio-saniLaires un ensemble dc soins de sankt essentiels et de serviccs de
santc publique et sociaux, selectionnes en fonction de Icur simplicitc el de leur coilt
relativemilent faible en cornpar-aison avec Icur efficacitc. Des plans d'6quipemnents et de
d6veloppement des rcssources hunaines sont cn cours de preparation. Leur mise en oeuvre
sera synchlonis6e avec celle du plan d'infrastructures. Dans le cadre de ces plans, notre
Gouvcnr.ment s'engage a doter toutes les formation s sanitaJires en personnels de santle
qualifies et en nombrc convenable, a elaborer unc strat6gie dc niaintecnance pour accroitirc
P'efficacit6 ct la durabilitt des equipeinents, de la logistiquc et des batiments. En compl6ment
de ces mesures, des moyenis logistiqucs et des procedures addquates d'acquisition des
mddicameints esscntiels seront dgalemcrnt mis en place de manierc a rendre operationnelles
toutes les: infrastructures existantes ou qui seront creees.
rIanis l'cventail des services qui seront offerts aux populations. Ic Gouvcr-nement a
identifi6 certains domaines prioritaires auxquels il alloucra pr6f6rentiellement Ics fonds publics
et qui sei-ont prot6g6s contre toute reduction imprevue de ressources. II s'agit dc la prevCntion
et de la promotion de la sante et plus sp6cifiquement de La lutte contre les mlaladics
transmissiblos (paludisme, diarrhees, infections respiratoires aigudis, tuberculose, etc...), de la
lutte contrc les MS'ISIDDA, de la nutrition et de la planification faniiliale, toutes interventions
susceptibles d'induirc utie aindlioration plus notable de l'6tat de sante de la population.
Le Gouvernemcnt prendre toutes les dispositions approprikes pour assurer Ic
fonctionnement ad,quat des 6tablissements de soins. Le Plan Directeur 1998-2002 renforcera
les acqt'is du pr6cddent plan qui s'etait focalise  sur les formations sanitaires du nivcau
primaire. tl diveloppera aussi le roilc de ref6rence des hopitaux rkgionaux. Les etablissements
du niveau tcrtiaire constitueront les points d'appui des centres et postes de soins de santd
primaire. et dc des formations de soins du nivcau secondaire. Le Ciouvernemenit veillera
ncanmnoins a  maintenir un juste 6quilibrc dans la repartition des ressources entre les soins
curatifs eL pr6ventifs, R integrer harmonieusemcnt le fonctionnemcnt des dtablissements de
2



Projec t Appraisal Docutment
Country: Mauprtania                                          Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Annex 11 - Page 3 of 7
soins et a en contriler les coOts. 11 s'engage a elaborer a cette fin une politique de
developpement et une strategie coh&rente de gestion des h8pitaux.
Le Gouvernernent est conscient de la necessiti urgente de faire participer davantage les
secteurs parapublic et privc dans Ie ddveloppemcnt sanitairc. Dans ce cadre il veillera a la
promotion du secteur prive et associatif conformrment aux orientations definies en mati&e de
privatisation et dans un esprit de complimentarite avec lc secteur public.
Tout comnie dans lc sectcur public, lc Gouvernement vcillera a evitcr 1'explosion des
couias et a assurer une qualitl acceptable des prcstations.
L a mise en oeuvrc du Plan Directeur requcrra davantage de ressources financi6rcs qu'il
faudra mobiliscr en faveur du secteur de la sante. Ces ressources financieres proviendront d'un
accroissenient des allocations budgetaires de lPEtat et des collectivites d6centrafisees, de la
contribution des bdneficiaires a travcrs le recouvrement des couts qui a etd misc en ocuvre
avec succes, et des contributions des partenaires externes. En confinnation de la priozite qu'il
accorde au sectcur dc ia sante et des affaires sociales, notre Gouvememeti s'enjgage A
augmenter Ic budget alloue au Ministere de la Sanid et des Affaires Sociales et aux
6tablissemenits autonoisies de sante et a porter progressivement la part du secteur datis le
budgct de fonctionnement de l'Etat a au moins 6,5% en 1998, 7% en 1999, 7,5% en 2000, 8%
cii 2001 et 8,5% en 2002. Tout en assurant une boinc execution du budget, le Gouvcrnement
maintiendra un juste equilibre dans la structure de la depcnse publiquc de sante. de manicre a
ce quc:
* les d6penscs salariales nc depassent pas 60% des depenses de fonctionnemeni
* les depenscs de fonctionnement pour les soins de sante primaires el sccondaires
repr6sentce-ont plus de 45% des ddpenscs de fonctionnemenit du secteur.
11 est prdvu dl'tendre et de gdneraliser le systeme de recouvrement des couts pour les
medicaments et les actes a l'ensemible des formations sanitaires du pays afin de mobiliser les
contributions financi6res dcs beneficiaires. Cette action s'appuicra sur les r6sultats d'vnc 6tude
qui sera pr6alablement conduite, les objectifs du Gouvernement resteit d'assurer l'abordabilitd
dcs tarifs et de proteger les pauvres. L'utilisation des ressources generces par lc recouvremenl
des coUtS scra reglementee a tous lcs niveaux de la pyramidc sanitaire. Les usagers contribuant
dc plus en plus au financernent du secteur, leur engagement dans la gestion des fonds el dans la
gestion des formations sanitaires (cogestion) sera promu grace a une implication plus poussce
des repr6.sentants des populations dans la prise de ddcision.
En vue de pallier a l'insuffisance des ressourccs nationales, le Gouvernemcmii mobilisera
des ressources financieres additionnelles auprcs de ses partenaircs externcs: organismes de
coop6ration bilat6rale, multilat6ralc et ONG. Etant donnr que les partenaires externes ont
activement contribue, par le passe, au financement du developpement socio-santaire, la
contribution attcndue de 78 millions de dollars americains parait realisable. I .e CGouvernemeni
renforcera, A cct effet, Ics modalitds de coordination des partenaires extcrnes dans laquelle lc
iMvlinist6re de la Sante et des Affair,, Sociales e.st appcld a jouer un r6le accTu et prendra touecs
autres nesures utiles pour accroirrt-' 1'cfficacitd et assurer la perennite de leurs intervcntions.
Teniant comptc du d6calage persistant entre les besoins sanitaires du pays et Ics
ressources disponibles, le Gouvernement consid&re comme prioritaires lc renforcement des
capacitds de gestion et I'am6lioration de l'efficacit6 et de la perfonnance du secteujr socio-
3



Project Appraisal Document                                    Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Country: Mauritania                                                         Annex 11 - Page 4 of 7
sanitairc. 11 executera en cons6quence Ic plan de renforcement in.stitutionnel du secteur de la
sante, qui a etc elabors  pour la p6riode 1998-2002, prevoyant la reorganisation ct la
restructuration du Minist&re de la Sante et des Affaires Sociales, la description de po.stes
conf'ormes aux nouvelles taches, le recrutement et Ia formation des cadres, l'ulilisation
d'assistat3s techniques pour des p&iodes dtfinies, la fowuniture d'un appui materic1 et
logistique aux services centraux et d6centralisds.
n rcste entcndu que la ddcentralisation, largemcnt engag6e, scra poursuivie par le
transfert d'utnc part de plus en plus importante de }'autoritel at des ressources vers les
directions regionales A I'action sanitairc et sociale (DRASS) et vers les circonscriptions
sanitaircs des moughataas (CSM). Les tachcs qui seront d6centralisies concernent en
particulier la gestion  des ressources  hurnaines (deploiement, formation, supeavision,
evaluation) , la mobilisation et la planificationi de toutes les ressources materielles et financi6res
disponibles dans la region, la budgdtisation des ressources ct la coordination des intcrveltions
dcs parLenaires incrnes et cxtermes. Ces objectifs en matiOre de decentralisation justificnt q9U
les fonds mis a la disposition des DRASS augmetitent a un rythmc plus rapide quc celui du
budget de fonctionnemnent du secteur ct que cette augmentation soit paraIllIe a un
renforcemcnt de leurs capacites de gestion.
Dans le cadre du renforcement des capacit6s nationaies, le Gouvernemcnt metIra cn place un
nouveau systenme dc gestion du secteur socio-sanitaire base SUI':
- un plan triennal glissant (et un plan ddtail16 d'operation annucl) qui inctura toutcs lex-
activites menees par le Gouveriement et par ses partcnaires internes ct Cxternes
durant la periode couverte par les dits plans
* une revue annuelle de suivi ct d'evaluation de 1'execution du plai triennal et du plan
d'op6ration annucile avec la participation dcs partenaires iniernes et externes sur la
base d'unc matrice d'indicateurs jointe a. cet1e lettre
* Ia proposition d'un budget et d'un plan detaillc d'operations pour l'annee suivante at
la mise a jour du plan triennal.
I..cs mutations sociales extr-cmement rapides et les irnportants changenelits qui
s'accomplissent dAans 1'environnement du secteur impliquent d'autres types de mesures hors du
champ traditionnel de la santc. TI s'agit en particulier de:
* Ia lutte contre la pauvrete ct la precarit6,
* la reduction de I'analphabetisine, de I'augmentation clu taux de scolarisation en
paniculier des filles,
* la lutte contre les pratiques nuisibles a la santd reproductive de la femme avec un
acccnt sur les mutilations en particulier.
I,c gouvernement a entamd un debat ouvcrt sur ces questions et est en train de finaliser
des strate6gies d'action dans ces trois domaines, afin de poursuivre un d6veloppement social et
iconornique harmonieux et promouvoir une meilleure sante de la femme.
Ces actions constituent aulant de pre-requis pour le succes de la nouvelle politiquc de
santA. Lo Gouvernemcnt elaborera une politique d'action socialc destin6c a promouvoir IA
solidarit6 nationale an faveur des personnes d6favorisAes et poursuivra ses efforts pour assurcr
un ddveloppemenit dconomiqtue harmnonieux daans le cadre des politiques cn vigueur.
4



Project Appraisal Document
Country: Mauritania                                                Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Annex 11 - Page 5 of 7
lTelles soint, Monsicur Ic Vice-Pr6sident, la substance de la Politique de Sante de la
Mauritanie ct les bases sur lesquellcs notre CGrouvernoment voudrait poulrsuivre unc
collaboration avantageuse avec tous ses partcnaircs et en particulier avec la Banque Mondialc
pendant la pcriode 1998-2002.
.~~~
Lee                   t       /                     Le Miiiistre du Plan
....   ...   ..
MO   Kd'Ai1NEi                                                            Idd DAHMMNE  AMA`
S~~~~~~~~~~~I



Project Appraisal Oocument
Country: Mauprtania                                                  Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Annex 11 - Page 6 of 7
Marilce d'indicateurs de suivi de P'ax6cution du Plazi triennial.
Listc des Indicatcurs                                     A.n. es
1998   1999  2000  2001  2UJ2
Indlesteurs g6ndraux
Population totale
Taux do.crlssance d6mographique.
Revenu piar habitant (S EU)
Taux de croaisance du PlB 
Taux do scoyWt tion des fillks
Taux d'oalphabrdisatdon des adultes
Pourcenatae de la population totale ayaiut accas A 1'enu potable._                 __
ludicateurs uldItat.deoab    de laurcd s populateeloi
Esptrance de oie io la n naissaIce   pa    t                                   s r
Taux de mortatb infrntile     -
Taux de mortalg iu deantdjuv  onienic     d . 
Taux de  nonsali a malesmellc
Indicc synthdlIque de   dfcondt oe         o   u  i         u    ire
Taux de privalence de la malnutritiou proEl:ino-calorique chez les enfants.            _ 
Indlcateurs tie disponlbilW des ressotres pour le secteur
PBudge nta do.. fodctbonuentld alloue par I'Etat u u   sectuur (MSAS
Etatblissements autonomes)
2  Mondtant
M 13n pourxentage du budget tptal de fonctiopuremcnit de l'Etat
*  Pourcr tage du budget de foncBionCienI  du MSAS afrec(6 aux
d*non  ses non salariales
* Pourcentage da budget de fonctioanemenl aslou6 uux niveaux piiamcaire
aet econdaire
*  Pourcentage ddu bidget de fonctionaentit allsucc aux DRASS
Miontant de recettes provenaul du recouvremcnl des coats par niveau:
I) Primairo ,-
2) Secondaire
3) Tertiaire
Montait des fudanceoets atlou6srparles parl atnouires expcrnes
R   inscrits dens lh BCI
a non parcditc daLis le BCI
Nomdbre d'isuiastuclures samitaimcs las niveaux prie airc at secondsaire
fonctionniellt s par type (PS, CS B, CS A, HR)
Pourcentuap dquipeinent c bon otat
Nonmbra d'agents de s.ant6 et r6parltifol p1aT catbS,ories professoiuniclies et
par nivoau.
Ratio m6decint habitants
Ratio parmmedicaV Ela ltts
l'aux de disponiibilith des medicarmeals essentiels (au niiveau du stock
central):.
'raux de disponibilit6 des vaccins (au uiveau du stock central)
FDonn6i :6facultatives



Project Appraisal Document
Country: Mauntania                                                               Project Title: Health Sector Investment Credit
Annex 11 - Page 7 of 7
Liste d3es iuidlcateurs                                       Aziraes
1 998   1999   200u  2,001   2002
Indelcateurs d'aclUwvczlent des actliv'tli pillnll6es (au 30 Scpteinbre dc
chaque annee)
Execution du budget dc fonctioluien2ent du secteur
* Montants d6caiss6s
* Taux d'ex6cution du budgct (extrapolationi sur les 12 inois de l'ann6c)
Infrastructures sanitairus
N Nombre d'infrastructures constnhites ou r6habilities par type
Taux do r6alisation par rapport aux previsions
Equipcrprnts
*e Nombre d'"quipcrnents install6s par typo
* Taux de rialisation par rapport aux pr6visions
1'ersonnel
dNoNmbre do personnels funes par catcgorics professionnelles
' Taux de r6alisation par rapport anx prbvisions
o  Effectifs des personuils existalus ct tcaris par rapport auX nonrme
d'allocation par Region et par niveau
ludicatours do perfortnjunce du secteur (au 30 Septexibrf de chaque
ann6e)
Taux de rocouvremenut des rapports truinestriels des DRASS
Nombrc de jours de supervisiou hors du clief lict de la RPglon par Cq91ipC
DRASS
Pourcentage de la populationi totale ayant acoes A une stnrcturL dc SSI' i
nioins do 5 km. du domicile
Taux de couverture vaccinale des enlfants do 0-11 niois par antigEnu: 13CG,
DTC, Polio Oral, Rouvax
Pourcentage  d'cnfaiits  coinplWternuit  vaccinds  tvavni  le  premier
anuiiversaire
Pourcentage de femrnies Cen dge de procr6or vaccin6cs coiitre Io t6tanos
(VAT2)
Taux de couvertuxe prinatale (miiiiinutn 3 CPN/feo uinc)
Taux de couverture postnatrile (minimuimi I CpN/fermrne)
Noiibre total d'aQcoucheinents enregistc6s dains les ormahioans sanlitaires
Taux de couverture des accouchernezits assist6s"
Nomibra de naissances vivantes
Pourcentage des nouveau-nds de poids dce naiss8nce uwt inf6riecar a 25V0
granunies
Pourcentago de d6c s p6rinataux
Taux de pr6valence contraceptivo au niveai national et par k6gion
Pourcentage des enfanIs de moiiis de 3 ans dont le poids cst infierur A la
mnoyeane (2 carts type)
Pourcentage de la population syant accks aux m6dicaments essonlicls
Coat moyen du traitement par Rt6gion et par niveau primnairc et sccondaire
Utilisation des services curatifs
.  'Taux d'utilisation des services curatifs par niveau
*  'raux d'occupation moyen des lits des HMpitaux i4gionaux
. Duree znoyenne de sejour daas les 1I6pitaux r6gionaux
^  Nombro  d'interventious  chirurgicales  par Rdgion  dout uombre
d'interventions effectu6es par les missions clirurgicales itin6rantes
* Nombre de cdsariennes (pourcentago)
*  Pourcentago de consultanits r6fir6s du niveon primaire vers le niveau
sexoniaire






MAP SECTION



BIRD 2941 9
ra    a   <   K;nBenTilL      \\    ALGE~~~~ALGRIA26
.    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 '-'''
S PA N I S H    ! +   ZEMMOUR                      z++4                      24~~~~~~MA L 
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ot n'mliun .6uc,ne prs ouin                                       postio
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d G3p de lo B.qu - i                                                .st b
0S;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~du    e,ti.-.,- ni -un   S.tifi.t.  o.v
3W  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"'.   -cpai                                            de ce    limites. >
3 S Lcnr u6r \2t'2^ Fchot ChoumRIA
W~~~~~~ ~       ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 00                                                               N.-,t 
3~~~~~~~~ PSm A N IX TA H    
g   oAguiloiFcll Tamcssouth>   gidiikia ~~~ZEM    OURhi                                            2ACH RG I 
3;33ej3tt3t.fi3j$33SAHARA t ,tK>,  
; ,               S E N E G A L   G~~~~~~~~~~~~~C)ouroyeI T   )uMA Le
r6             --trich        Ck4  1;"    0               1          td66                                       14
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERE D1998 



