                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32668

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (PPFI-Q0700 IDA-30550)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$24 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA

                                                 FOR A

                              HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT




                                              June 21, 2005




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                 (Exchange Rate Effective January 2005)

                                           Currency Unit = Mauritanian Ouguiyas (UM)
                                                   260 UM = US$ 1
                                          US$ 0.003846 = 1 UM

                                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                            January 1     December 31

                                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AfDB      - African Development Bank                         Banque Africaine de Développement
AIDS      - Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome              Syndrome d'Immunodéficience Acquis
CAS       - Country Assistance Strategy                      Stratégie d'Aide-Pays
CESAG     - African Center for Higher Education              Centre Africain d'Etudes Supérieures en Gestion
          Management
DALY      - Disability Adjusted Life-Year                    Année de Vie Corrigée du Facteur Invalidité
DHS       - Demographic and Health Survey                    Enquête Démographique et de Santé
DPT3      - Diphtheria-Pertussis-Tetanus, three doses        Diphtérie-Tétanos-Coqueluche, trois doses
DRASS     - Regional Health Directorates                     Directions Régionales de l'Action Socio-Sanitaire
GDP       - Gross Domestic Product                           Produit Intérieur Brut
GOM       - Government of Mauritania                         Gouvernement de Mauritanie
HIPC      - Highly Indebted Poor Countries                   Pays Pauvres Très Endettés
HIV       - Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus                    Virus de l'Immunodéficience Humaine
HPP       - Health and Population Project                    Projet Santé et Population
HSIP      - Health Sector Investment Project                 Projet d'Appui au Secteur de la Santé
IDA       - International Development Organization           Organisation Internationale de Développement
IEC       - Information, Education and Communication         Information, Education et Communication
IMCI      - Integrated Management of Child Illnessess        Gestion Intégrée des Maladies Infantiles
METF      - Medium-Term Expenditure Framework                Cadre des Dépenses à Moyen Terme
MOHSA     - Ministry of Health and of Social Affairs         Ministère de la Santé et des Affaires Sociales
NGO       - Non-Governmental Organization                    Organisation Non-Gouvernementale
ONS       - National Bureau of Statistics                    Office National des Statistiques
PAD       - Project Appraisal Document                       Rapport d'Evaluation du Projet
PER       - Public Expenditure Review                        Revue des Dépenses Publiques
PRSC      - Poverty Reduction Support Credit                 Crédit à l'Appui de la Réduction de la Pauvreté
PRSP      - Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper                 Document de Stratégie pour la Réduction de la Pauvreté
RH        - Regional Hospital                                Hôpital Régional
SWAP      - Sector-Wide Approach Project                     Approche Sectorielle
UNICEF    - United Nations Children's Fund                   Fonds des Nations Unies pour l'Enfance
UNFPA     - United Nations Fund for Population Activities    Fonds des Nations Unies pour les Activités
                                                             en Matière de Population
WHO       - World Health Organization                        Organisation Mondiale de la Santé




                                        Vice President:      Gobind T. Nankani
                                     Country Director        A. David Craig
                                       Sector Manager        Alexandre Abrantes
             Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                  Astrid Helgeland-Lawson

                                        MAURITANIA
                              Health Sector Investment Program


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            39
Annex 8. Summary table of expenses by component                                  42

Project ID: P035689                                                  Project Name: Health Sector Investment Program
Team Leader: Astrid Helgeland-Lawson                                 TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 24, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Health Sector Investment Program                         L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q0700; IDA-30550
   Country/Department: MAURITANIA                                                          Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (93%); Compulsory health finance (6%); Central government
                            administration (1%)
                   Theme: Health system performance (P); Child health (S); Population and
                            reproductive health (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/12/1995                                     Effective:                           10/27/1998
     Appraisal: 10/27/1997                                         MTR:                             06/12/2001
      Approval: 03/31/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          MINISTRY OF HEALTH & SOCIAL AFFAIRS/MINISTRY OF HEALTH &
                                           SOCIAL AFFAIRS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               A. David Craig                                 Hasan A. Tuluy
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Ok Pannenborg
Team Leader at ICR:             Ousmane Bangoura                               Sergiu Luculescu
ICR Primary Author:             Astrid Helgeland-Lawson


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No
Note to the reader: the ICR uses the term "Program" for the overall Government program for the health sector and
"Project" for the IDA-financed portion of this Program namely, the Health Sector Investment Project.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Health Sector Investment Project's (HSIP) (US$24 million) was developed to support the
implementation of the Government of Mauritania's five-year health program for the period
1998-2002.    The overall objective of the Program was to improve the health status of the
population in general (and of underserved groups in particular) through the provision of more
accessible and affordable quality health services. The specific objectives of the Program, all
supported by the HSIP, were to: (a) improve the quality and coverage of health services; (b)
improve the health sector's financing and performance; (c) mitigate the effects of major public
health problems; and (d) promote social action and create an environment conducive to health.

The Program (with HSIP assistance) also aimed to strengthen sector capacity by: (i) promoting
government leadership in the formulation and implementation of a coherent sector policy; (ii)
establishing sound planning and budgeting practices; (iii) improving sector administrative and
clinical performance; (iv) helping decentralize decision-making in the public sector; (v) assisting
the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs (MOHSA) to institute an effective coordination
mechanism to channel donor and NGO's resources for the achievement of sector policy; and (vi)
improving data collection to better monitor the progress in the sector.

The Program was consistent with the strategies outlined in the 1993 World Development Report
"Investing in Health", the 1994 World Bank publication "Better Health in Africa", the Highly
Indebted and Poor Country (HIPC) Initiative and the government's poverty reduction strategy.
The HSIP was also consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which was reviewed
by the Board in May 1997. Actions and progress benchmarks mentioned in the CAS included: (i)
development of basic and referral health services (with emphasis on remote areas); (ii) availability
of adequate reproductive health care services and increased use of modern contraceptive methods;
and (iii) development of preventive services (with special emphasis on vaccination). The HSIP
was also expected to contribute to other areas of CAS assistance, such as the development of the
rural sector and the modernization of the public sector. The vaccination rate was proposed as one
of the triggers for moving from a base case scenario to either a high case (rate over 75 percent) or
a low case (rate under 65 percent) scenario.

The implementation of the sector policy was supported by several bilateral agencies and
multilateral organizations including IDA and international and local NGOs through a sector-wide
approach (SWAp) which was guided by the following principles:
·       Donor and government interventions were supportive to agreed upon sector policies;
·       Joint annual working sessions to review progress and to develop sector-wide work plans
were carried out;
·       Key performance indicators were agreed upon and served to monitor progress and
evaluate outputs and outcomes; and
·       The SWAp did not entail pooling of funds and common procurement procedures.
The sector-wide approach used was a wise choice as it helped Government (GOM) to respond, in
an efficient manner, to new priorities for the sector, to gradually reduce the duplication brought
about by the coexistence of various donor-driven projects, to strengthen local capacity in planning
and management, and to set up an effective coordination mechanism.


                                               - 2 -

The ICR team concludes that the objectives of the HSIP as well as its lending instrument: (i)
addressed key issues in the health sector; (ii) were sound but ambitious; and (iii) were achievable
taking into account the track record of Mauritania in the 1990s and the newly strengthened
collaboration with donors. Both the individual and overall risk ratings were considered modest
and perhaps underestimated the complexity of the project and the new and untested sector-wide
approach. The rapid turnover of the high-level management personnel in the MOHSA (a risk
which was not mentioned in the PAD of the HSIP) affected the commitment to the reform
process. Nonetheless, Government's overall commitment was strong and capacity in both central
and regional health teams was strengthened. To conclude, the objectives of the HSIP, as well as
its lending instrument, were ambitious and complex, yet achievable taking into account the track
record of Mauritania in the 1990s and the newly strengthened collaboration with donors.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the HSIP were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The design of the HSIP was complex: it included four broad components and sixteen
sub-components and sought to address a number of sector issues, including the low access to and
poor quality of services, allocation of expenditures and of human resources biased in favor of
curative services, inadequate availability of drugs, and weak sector management and
administrative capacity, resulting, among others, in duplication of interventions and ineffective
donor assistance programs.

The first component was to "improve health services quality and coverage" by: (i) expanding the
coverage of health services with specific objectives for each level of services; (ii) improving the
performance of health services, with emphasis on staffing, equipping, maintenance and supply of
essential drugs; (iii) improving utilization rates of health facilities; and (iv) begin implementing
quality assurance measures.

The second component was to "improve health sector's financing and performance". It was
designed to (i) increase the share of the health sector in the total public budget to 10 percent; (ii)
expand cost recovery to secondary health care; (iii) mobilize private resources; and (iv) increase
donor funding or at least maintain its volume at its 1998 level in constant terms.

The third component was to "mitigate the effects of major public health problems". It focused on
reducing infant and child mortality, reducing maternal mortality, reducing malnutrition in children
under five years of age, improving control over infectious diseases, and enhancing information,
education and communication.

The fourth component was to "promote social action and create an environment conducive to
health". It was designed to revise the national policy on social action, improve knowledge on
health determinants, promote legislation to protect the most vulnerable groups, and provide
assistance to the poor and under-served. It included funding for a Demographic and Health
Survey (DHS) and a Population Census.




                                                 - 3 -

Addressing all these issues at the same time was difficult, but necessary for improving the
effectiveness of the health sector and a more efficient use of scarce resources. Consequently, the
HSIP design included both support for the entire Program and adequate efforts to strengthen
MOHSA capacity to implement a complex program and mechanisms to facilitate the coordination
among all parties involved (such as annual reviews and planning sessions led by the Government).
All donors active in the health sector were involved in the implementation of the government
Program for the health sector.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components of the HSIP were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated as satisfactory.
In preparation for implementation, MOHSA capacity was strengthened and some key positions
filled and the reform process was initiated (e.g., increased emphasis was put on decentralization;
primary health services; cost recovery, which included drugs and services and some protection of
affordability for the poor). Plans were prepared including a plan for capacity strengthening,
infrastructure development, and human resource development. Implementation arrangements
were in place before HSIP approval or credit effectiveness, including a procurement plan for
1998/99, bidding documents for works and goods to be purchased with IDA funds in 1998, a
program implementation manual, and a plan for institutional capacity strengthening for 1998/99.
MOHSA staffing was also improved and a computerized financial monitoring system put in place.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Analysis of the PAD's indicators shows a positive trend beginning in the 1980s and continuing
during the implementation of the program. Overall, the outcome was satisfactory because the
project achieved most of its major objectives and has achieved satisfactory development results.
Two (infant mortality rate and fertility rate) of the four indicators chosen to measure program
development were surpassed, and there was substantial progress in improving under-five mortality
(the original target was not met as it was over ambitious. In service utilization, although not
reached as projected, there were some positive trends.

The infant mortality rate was expected to decline from 118 per 1,000 to 80 per 1,000 in 2002.
This indicator was achieved at end 2002, as the rate had declined more than projected i.e., to 74
per 1,000 live births.

The fertility rate was projected to decline from 6.5 to 5.5 in 2002. The fertility rate actually
declined to somewhere between 4.1 and 4.6 (the former figure belongs to the Infant Mortality and
Malaria survey, 2003, while the latter (4.6) to the PER). The decline in this indicator is more
important than originally expected in the PAD and represents an important achievement.

The under-five mortality rate was projected to decline from 182 per 1,000 to 90 per 1,000 in
2002 (i.e., by 50%, which was visibly too ambitious). This rate actually declined to only 123 per
1,000 at end of 2003. The decline was, therefore, less than anticipated in Annex 1 of the PAD,
but it was, nevertheless, substantial.


                                               - 4 -

The utilization of outpatient facilities measured through the number of consultations per capita is
reported in the last supervision report to have increased from 0.3 in 1997 to 0.4 in 2003 (but have
decreased again, in 2004, to 0.34 visits per capita). Such modest utilization rates (which, to a
large extent, is explained by the particular geographical situation of Mauritania with desert zones
and weak demographic density) compare poorly with other Sub Saharan countries and need to be
further improved. However, this is a composite indicator, difficult to track and difficult to
interpret as it is influenced by a variety of factors such as low accessibility of services, insufficient
technical and perceived quality and, in particular, the high indirect cost of medical services (e.g.,
the time spent and the cost of transportation through desert and long roads incurred by the family
of the sick person).

Hospital occupancy rates were to increase from 60 percent to 80 percent in 2002, but analysis
shows that this rate is still at about 60 percent in tertiary hospitals, and in some regional hospitals
remains at about 30% which is particularly low.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Overall, achievements under the project were satisfactory, but initial expectations were not fully
met.    Program implementation was slower than initially envisaged. Implementation and
enforcement of policies for social action to reduce inequities are still lagging behind. Issues, which
remain to further pursue include the availability of drugs at the decentralized level, the finalization
of regulation for cost recovery and maintenance of facilities. Notwithstanding these areas of lower
results, most health outcomes were improved and the performance of the sector was enhanced,
particularly in the areas of donor coordination, decentralization of resources, and training of staff.
Progress was also made in mitigating the effects of major public health problems, particularly in
regard to human reproduction and immunization (in the latter a strong program resumed after the
decline of performance in the second half of the 1990s).

First component: Improve health services quality and coverage.                   Four indicators were
proposed. The first was that health facilities had to be developed according to the Health
Infrastructure Development Plan, which was approved prior to the negotiations of the credit.
Available documentation on hand shows that the IDA credit helped build a total of 54 health
posts, and that a total of 146 new health posts were built under the Program. The credit also
supported the rehabilitation of 7 regional hospitals and the construction of one new regional
hospital; the only psychiatric hospital of the country was rehabilitated and expanded, and a new
outpatient department was built at the national Hospital.




                                                  - 5 -

Table 1: Construction under the Program

                                                                           Program planned
                                                                            (Annex 1-PAD)         Program actual        IDA actual


Construct Health Posts                                                           235                   146                  54
Rehabilitate health posts                                                         52                    0                   0
Upgrade health centers from grade B to A                                          12                    0                   0
Rehabilitate health centers grade A                                               5                     0                   0
Construction of health centers grade A                                            0                     2                   0
Upgrade health posts to grade B health centers                                    14                    0                   0
Rehabilitate health centers type B                                                14                    0                   0
Construction of health centers grade B                                            0                     1                   0
Rehabilitate regional hospitals                                                   11                    9                   7
Psyciatric hospital (CNP) (rehab. + expansion)                                    0                     1                   1
National Hospital (construct outpatient department)                               0                     1                   1
Hopital Sabah (TB)                                                                0                     0                   1
Rehabilitation of the National School of Public Health (ENSP)                     0                     1                   1
Construction of the National Center for Family Health (CNSF)                      0                     1                   1
Construction of the Regional Health Directorate in Rosso                          0                     1                   1
Construct regional hospital                                                       0                     1                   *

The project contributed to the construction of the Regional Hospital in Nouadibou by financing of the supervision of the works.



The GOM succeeded to implement about 62% of the health posts planned.                                    The shortfall
happened because of: 1) lack of contractors able to work in remote and hard-to-access
geographical areas, 2) the actual cost of such construction which exceeded initial cost estimates,
3) problems with the staffing and supervision of small facilities (due to lack of roads and huge
distances) and 4) unmet commitments by other donors. During HSIP implementation, MOHSA
analyzed the situation, consulted the donors and rightly decided to pay more attention to regional
hospitals. The rationale of this decision was supported by the fact that: a) in Mauritania regional
hospitals are the first level in the health care delivery system able to provide emergency obstetric
care and basic surgery, thus relevant to the improvement of outcome indicators such as maternal
and infant mortality rates, and b) smaller facilities such as health centers and posts proved
ineffective in the absence of technical supervision from and referral to regional hospitals. IDA
financed the construction of about one third of the total number of health posts constructed and
contributed substantially to the rehabilitation and equipping of regional hospitals.

A second indicator was used to monitor the number of health posts fully functional and
supervised (a functional facility was defined as health post with adequate equipment, drug and
health personnel). The health posts fully functional and supervised were planned to increase from
208 to 443 in 2002.            Currently there are 339 health posts fully functional and supervised.
Although it is largely accepted that more attention should be given to improve the delivery of
services at the periphery, the situation explained in the paragraph above (i.e., newly constructed
health posts were fewer than planned) also affected the number of health posts fully functional.




                                                           - 6 -

The Bank project contributed to equip health centers and rehabilitate and equip secondary
hospitals. The revitalization of regional hospitals (the secondary level) is one of the most
important outcomes of the project, establishing the missing link between primary and tertiary
health care and making accessible essential emergency obstetrics and surgical care to the
population living far from the capital city.

Accessibility of primary care facilities, the third indicator, was expected to increase from 65
percent of population living at less than 5 kilometers from a facility to 80 percent in 2002. The
indicator has actually increased to 77 percent in 2003.

The last indicator of the first component was the increase in consumer satisfaction with health
services. Because beneficiary assessments were not performed during project implementation, no
data were available to measure this indicator.

Second component: Improve health sector's financing and performance. A first indicator
measured the level of external assistance to the sector. It was stipulated that the amount should
increase, or at least be maintained at the 1995 level, in constant terms. Table 2 below shows that
the share of donors' funding to the health sector declined in the period 1998-2003, while the
government spending has increased since 2001. Donors funding represented 55 percent of the
total health expenditures in 1999 but only 29 percent in 2002 and 27 percent in 2003. As a result,
IDA, which maintained its commitment, became a major financier, i.e., IDA financing,
representing only 14 of external financing in 1998, reached 64 percent in 2003. The decline in the
share of donor contributions was offset by a massive increase of government funding. The UN
agencies were unable to complete their activities with limited and declining resources. Resources
from bilateral agencies declined or were disbursed with delay.             Donor financing is still
characterized by difficulties to track funds and the use of different procedures for resource
mobilization, accounting, reporting and procurement. However, during program implementation,
the coordination among donors improved through the annual reviews of operational planning
exercises and joint program supervision, which helped reduce duplication. MOHSA took an
increased responsibility in coordinating donors and NGOs and GOM substantially increased the
funding of the sector from the public budget to offset the decline in external financing.


Table 2: Health Funding by External Sources (1998-2003, UM billion)

 Donors                            1998      1999        2000      2001     2002      2003
IDA                                197       370         466       623      1,091     1,342
Excl. IDA                          1,209     2,452       2,236     484      983       748
Total donors                       1,406     2,822       2,802     1,117    2,074     2,090
IDA as a % of donors financing     14        13          17        56       53        64
Donors as % of total expenditures  40        55          54        27       29        27
Total donors (US$ per capita)      3.0       5.2         4.4       1.6      2.7       2.7

Source: GIRM 2004a




                                                - 7 -

The second indicator assessed the share of the recurrent budget for health, which was expected
to increase from 6.5 percent in 1997 to 8.5 percent in 2002. The share of health in government
total recurrent expenditures reached 9.3 percent in 2002 and the total allocations to the health
sector increased from 1.9 percent to 4 percent of GDP during same period. Actual spending was
much lower, however, because of a low absorptive capacity in the sector and especially of difficult
administrative procedures (including lengthy approval processes) used in the public sector. In
2002, the actual expenditures for health reached only 2.7 percent of GDP (or about US$9.3 per
capita) and this remains an important issue.

Among other positive results were: (i) the share of primary health services in the total budget of
the sector has increased substantially in recent years (from about 22.2 percent of executed
expenditures in the sector in 1998-2000 to about 39 percent in 2001-02), and (ii) the share of the
wage bill in total recurrent executed expenditures has declined from an average of about 48
percent in 1998-2000 to 38 percent in 2001-2002. This latter result is even more remarkable as it
happened despite a sharp increase in salaries since 2000, when hardship allowances were given to
staff working in primary and secondary health facilities.

Expansion of cost recovery to secondary health facilities was the third output indicator under this
component. Some cost recovery was achieved in regional hospitals starting in 1998/1999, but not
everywhere and not systematically. Revenues collected through cost recovery have been retained.
The facilities and the health delivery system has, generally speaking, succeeded in providing drugs
which are accessible to the population. In 2002 the Government enacted a decree to address
various shortcomings and standardize cost recovery. However, this decree has not yet been
implemented due to the lack of detailed tariffs and text on exemptions for indigents, on the
composition of management committees at local and regional levels, and on the set up of the
national steering committee. Moreover, unfortunately, the MOHSA has relaxed even further its
control over the revenues generated by the system in the last years and data on cost recovery have
not been available since 2000.

In terms of equity of health spending, on average household expenditure on health in Mauritania
represents around 5.5 percent of total expenditure, a relatively low level compared with other
countries in the sub-region. As health expenditures increase with the level of well-being, its
relative weight diminishes as income level increases. In Mauritania, the health expenditure of the
richest households is in the order of 4.6 percent of total expenditure while amongst the poorest it
reaches nearly 9 percent of total expenditure. It is likely that the unequal weight of health
expenditure between the poor and the non-poor has a negative efect on inequality, and this
underlines the importance of pursuing equity in Mauritania.

The PAD did not include other indicators to assess this component. However, during program
implementation, the Borrower ownership of the sector became a reality. The team was able to
adjust program implementation, taking into account the new circumstances. In spite of a decline
in donor financial support, financing for the sector has increased, demonstrating a strong
government commitment to improving health. Regional teams were also strengthened and played
a key role in managing facilities at the regional level and supervising local facilities. Hardship
allowances were provided to staff posted away from the capital city, and enhanced the prospects


                                                - 8 -

for adequate operations of the facilities built or rehabilitated under the program. Good progress
was also observed in other areas, including personnel management, training of staff,
decentralization of decision-making and budgets to the regional level, involvement of the private
sector in the preparation of sector strategies, and methods for contracting out selected health
activities to NGOs. On the other hand, little progress was made in the management of the drug
delivery system, in the maintenance of health facilities, and in the participation of the population in
the management of health facilities at the local level, because of the slow pace of the reform
process in the sector. The policy aim to strengthen and rely on the private sector was also
insufficiently pursued. In Mauritania the private provision of health services remains relatively
small (and consists of some private facilities in the large cities, a large number of pharmacies and
traditional medicine dispensed in villages) and GOM has not done enough either to strengthen or
to better use such services. Thus, the private practices in cities remain largely unregulated, the
quality of drugs in private pharmacies is critical and efforts to develop and rely on traditional
medicine are only recent.

Third component: Mitigate the effects of major public health problems.                    Four output
indicators were included in the PAD. The first one addressed the contraceptive prevalence rate,
which was expected to increase from 2.5 percent in 1997 to 10 percent in 2002. The rate is
estimated to have reached 8 percent in 2003. This increase can probably explain some of the
decline in the fertility rate mentioned, other contributing factors being the progress in girls'
education, the demographic transition and reproductive behavior changes. Five year strategic
plans were designed to address HIV/AIDS control, among other diseases (an HIV/AIDS control
project supported by IDA was approved in July 2003). Their management responsibilities were
decentralized and the civil society, representatives from other sectors and local authorities were
increasingly involved. New programs were created to deal with emerging issues such as
schistosomiasis, IMCI, mental health.

The 1997 CAS had proposed the vaccination rate as a trigger for higher or lower scenarios (over
75 percent for moving to the high scenario, but under 65 percent for moving to the lower
scenario). Even though the PAD did not include this rate among the HSIP indicators, the
Program and the HSIP supervision team monitored the development in vaccination rates closely.
Vaccination rates increased during the first half of the 1990s, but declined in the second half of the
1990s, mainly due to a decrease in both internal and external financing, which led to shortages of
supplies and equipment. The immunization program was energized again in 2000, thanks to
strong     resource   support     from    Government        and     external    partners.       DPT3
(diphtheria-pertussis-tetanus, three-dose vaccine) coverage increased from 26 percent in 1999 to
82 percent in 2002. Nonetheless, the program remains fragile (for instance, in 2003 the rate
declined to 73 percent).

Other indicators dealt with the pre- and post-natal care. The antenatal care rate (percentage of
pregnant women attended, at least once, by skilled health personnel for reasons related to
pregnancy) was expected to increase from 35 percent in 1997 to 75 percent in 2002. This rate
was reported to have increased to only 68 percent in 2002. The post-natal care rate was
expected to increase from 22 percent in 1997 to 60 percent in 2002, but this indicator was not
reported upon.



                                                 - 9 -

Although not an indicator selected to measure HSIP progress, births attended by health staff
reached 57 percent of total births in 2001 from 40 percent in 1990 (World Development Report).
Massive social mobilization coupled with more accessible and affordable quality health services
resulted in the increase in the demand for reproductive health services and explains the progress
occurred.

The last indicator for this component was the malnutrition rate in children under five, which was
expected to decline from 30 percent in 1997 to 15 percent in 2002.              The latest official
malnutrition data available for Mauritania (DHS 2000-01) show relatively small progress: stunting
(i.e. height for age) at 35% (30% in urban and 38% in rural areas); wasting (i.e. weight for height)
at 13% (11% in urban and 14% in rural areas); and underweight (i.e. weight for age) at 32%
(27% in urban and 36% in rural areas).

Fourth component: promote social action and create an environment conducive to health.
Three output indicators were included in the PAD, i.e., the i) formulation and approval of a
social action policy, ii) conducting of studies on under-served groups, and the iii) formulation
and dissemination of information, education and communication (IEC) messages to stimulate
demand for modern contraceptives.

A social action policy was formulated and revised, but attempts at reorienting the Directorate of
Social Affairs to activities aimed at improving the access of the poor and vulnerable groups to
health and other social services were not particularly successful. However, a demographic and
health survey, a population census and studies on disabilities and street children were conducted.
A number of IEC activities were undertaken to raise awareness on health issues and promote the
use of health services.

Studies were also conducted on the incidence of indigence in Nouakchott, the capital city, and
Hodh El Gharbi. Mutual health insurance schemes were tested, but their implementation has yet
to take off on a large scale.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Despite a number of shortcomings, the project's institutional impact, overall, was substantial.

Sector management has greatly improved. The implementation of the Plan for Institutional
Capacity Strengthening ("Plan de renforcement des capacités institutionnelles"), although
delayed, led to changes in the organizational structure of the MOHSA (creation of new
directorates in charge with human resource management and hospital management).                Two
evaluations of the structure and organization of the MOHSA were implemented. Following the
ongoing "cadres organiques d'emploi" study, the organizational structures of the MOHSA were



                                                - 10 -

redefined and job descriptions, responsibilities and functions outlined. The MOHSA was proactive
in carrying out this study, which, since then, has become a norm for all government ministries and
departments implementing the Government governance strategy.

Donor coordination improved. Relations with donors and NGOs were strengthened, since all
major policy documents were developed in close consultation with external and internal partners.
The annual operational plans presented a comprehensive picture of all sector activities and their
source of funding and contributed to reducing the duplication of efforts and promoting joint
financing.

MOHSA capacity was strengthened. Increased abilities in the areas of policy development,
planning and budgeting (through the elaboration of annual operational plans, strategic plans for
disease control and infrastructure and human resource development and regional plans for the
implementation of the PRSP) enabled MOHSA to lead the annual planning and budgeting
process. Capacity in carrying out PER and in designing MTEFs was strengthened (in this latter
area Mauritania provided assistance to several neighboring countries).         Problems remained,
however, with regard to budget execution as evidenced by the difference between allocations and
actual expenditures in the sector resulting from a low absorptive capacity in the sector and slow
and cumbersome approval processes (see Annex 3).

The decentralization process was strengthened. The Regional Health Directorates (Directions
Régionales de l'Action Socio-Sanitaire)(DRASS) were empowered with finance and personnel
management tasks and GOM's commitment to substantially increase district budgets.             The
recurrent budget started to include specific allocations for each of the regions. These funds were
and remain discretionary, and were increased alongside with management and financial capacity
improvements in regions. Moreover, regions were given the right to retain the funds generated
through cost recovery and use them at the level of the respective health unit. The delivery of
specific programs was contracted out to NGOs, which extended the reach of MOHSA. More
attention should have been given, however, to the involvement of local communities and
beneficiaries.

Procurement and financial management: New financial management procedures were designed
and the management of hospitals improved. All hospital managers received a training course with
the support of the Centre Africain d'Etudes Supérieures en Gestion (CESAG). Their assistants
were also trained and were provided with new management tools.

Monitoring and evaluation: Annual reviews of implementation of work programs, associating
internal and external partners, were organized by MOHSA. The health information system was
strengthened and decentralized. Health Statistics offices were created in regional administrations
and strengthened at central level.

The areas in which further efforts are needed include: a) cost recovery, which had been a major
achievement under the previous sector development program but was not given sufficient
attention during HSIP implementation, b) the institutional framework for drug procurement and
supply and c) the maintenance of health facilities.



                                                - 11 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The risk of declining donor support to the health sector materialized. The share of donor
financing of the health sector declined during the period of program implementation, from 55
percent of total in 1999 to 27 percent in 2003. This had a negative impact on the implementation
of the infrastructure development plan and on other investments. The decline was dramatic for
some technical agencies and for some bilateral partners. In response to this situation a) the Bank
used its mandate of donor of last resort and IDA funds were utilized to cope with the declining
financial capacity of some donors, and, concomitantly, b) GOM substantially increased its
financial support to the sector.

The project was not designed with harmonized Donor's procedures and common procurement
arrangements, because of the lack of confidence of donors in the management capacity of the
public sector and their lack of interest in making use of other procedures than their own.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Implementation of the program was negatively affected by the high turnover of personnel
appointed to fill higher-level positions in the MOHSA. During the period 1998-2003, eight
ministers and five permanent secretaries (some of whom were lacking the sector expertise) were
in charge of the sector.          There is general agreement that this was counterproductive to
decision-making and reform objectives. Moreover, some government representatives were not
strongly committed to all aspects of the reform program, which affected its implementation.
Despite these unfavorable circumstances, the Program was eventually implemented to a large
extent and the ministry demonstrated that it was strong enough to execute a far-reaching agenda.

In January 1999, Mauritania was declared eligible to benefit from the enhanced HIPC initiative. It
reached the decision point in January 2000 and the completion point in June 2002. This was a
positive factor for Program implementation for two reasons.              The HIPC process gave the
Government a strong incentive to introduce many needed reforms, such as the creation of the
autonomous central agency in charge of drug procurement. Also, additional resources were made
available to the health sector at a critical point in time and offset a declining donor funding.

The government made good progress in enacting new human resources policies for the education
and health sectors. However, allowances granted to staff working in remote areas were paid late
and local authorities were not involved in the monitoring of the presence of health workers at the
work place thus reducing the impact of the said reforms.

Intersectoral collaboration did not improve significantly except with the Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development and the Commissariat chargé de la lutte contre la
pauvreté, and this slowed down the implementation of nutrition, reproductive health and malaria
activities. It is worth mentioning, however, that the launch of other projects in the sector, such as
the Nutricom project and the HIV/AIDS project, as well as work related to poverty alleviation
have contributed during the last part of HSIP to the improvement of the collaboration with other
sectors and the strengthening of coordination mechanisms.




                                                     - 12 -

Due to delays in civil service reform, management remained poor in the public sector in general.
Some of the needed reforms to improve budgeting and financial management, and procurement
started also late (only during the preparation of the PRSC 1).

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
MOHSA made a considerable effort and the health sector in Mauritania was the first to
implement, through a sector-wide approach, a comprehensive sectoral policy and mobilize donors.
However, despite the work done during project preparation, the implementation of issue-specific
plans (Plan for Institutional Capacity Strengthening, Health Infrastructure Development Plan,
Human Resources Development Plan) was delayed. Because of this situation, many activities
pertaining to these plans did not start before the mid-term review, thus contributing to the
persistence of low availability of health personnel and the postponement of civil works.
Ultimately these delays caused a larger than expected disbursement lag and made it necessary to
extend the closing date of the credit twice. The reforms in drug procurement and distribution
were also implemented late. For instance, the central drug procurement and warehouse unit was
only created towards the end of the project, after the HIPC Initiative made it a specific
conditionality and a drug bill was adopted. The insufficient leadership and management capacity
of the Public Health Directorate, exacerbated by the multiplicity of vertical programs, was not
addressed in a timely manner and this hindered the performance of programs addressing the main
public health issues. Similarly, the functioning of the Social Affairs Directorate was not reviewed
on time (as proposed by donors) to allow this Directorate to tackle financing issues and especially
the protection of the affordability of services for the poor.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The delay in the implementation of the Program resulted in a lag of 18 months in the disbursement
schedule. However, there were no major cost overruns and IDA support, although delayed by
slow and cumbersome administrative procedures of the Borrower, was used in a timely and useful
manner. As in other similar situations encountered in sector-wide projects in which IDA observed
its role of financier of last resort, the fact that some other donors disbursed less or were not able
to mobilize resources in a timely manner had repercussions, i.e., it obliged IDA to finance more
recurrent expenditures than originally planned and, at times, to provide support in areas in which
other donors could not provide their support as originally planned.

IDA support to the health sector through HSIP was US$ 24 million. Ninety seven percent of the
credit was disbursed. Based on the PER which covered during the period from 1998 to 2002, the
total expenditures in the health sector accounted for about US$138 million to which IDA
contributed almost 7.6 percent and the donors about 20 percent. GOM made a significant effort
and increased proportionally the share of the health sector. Finally, it is worth noting that the
share of IDA's contribution to the overall donor funding increased in proportion over the years.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is likely because:
·       The Program for the health sector belonged to the Borrower and was implemented by a
national agency and a national team. Ownership was and continues to be a major positive factor
in Mauritania.


                                                    - 13 -

·        The MOHSA was strengthened and was able to adjust program implementation, taking
into account new circumstances. The MOHSA also demonstrated leadership and commitment to
an ambitious reform agenda.
·        GOM increased the financing from public sources to the sector, demonstrating a strong
government commitment to health and poverty alleviation.
·        Decentralization was pursued and regional teams were strengthened. They played and
continue to play a key role in managing facilities at the regional level and in supervising local
facilities.
·        Donors collaborated well and accepted GOM as a leader in Program development and
management.

Areas of weaknesses persist, however, as indicated above. Among those are: a) the fact that
Government has not enacted a maintenance policy, b) the cost recovery system has not been
properly regulated as yet, and c) beneficiaries were not adequately involved and represented in
local health committees.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
MOHSA was responsible for the implementation of the sector-wide development program and all
its directorates were involved. The two directorates in charge of sector planning and financial
affairs were strengthened and a new directorate, in charge of investment, was created to handle
procurement under the program. Annual reviews of program implementation of work programs,
associating internal and external partners, were organized by MOHSA. These arrangements
worked well and are expected to continue after project completion.

Continued Bank support to the sector is envisaged to compensate for declining donor financial
support and to facilitate the implementation of a revised health sector strategy. The new strategy
focuses on (i) strengthening human resources through increased personnel availability and better
performance through productivity gains and responsiveness to population needs; (ii) introducing
performance-based allocations which link financial resources to demonstrated results; (iii)
improved monitoring of the sector; and (iv) increasing reliance on the private sector in both urban
areas and local communities of rural areas. Donors are committed to continuing their support to
the sector through a sector-wide approach.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during project preparation was satisfactory. The Bank took the lead in
helping the government to decide on a sector-wide approach and helped an initially reluctant
donor community to become supportive to this initiative. Preparatory work was underpinned by
two public expenditure reviews, which contributed to reach consensus among stakeholders on key
issues in the sector.

Bank performance during the appraisal of the project was also satisfactory. The composition of
the team and the project structure were consistent with sector priorities. The decision to support
a sector-wide approach implied a certain risk and it was difficult to make, but it resulted in



                                                  - 14 -

positive changes in the external support to the sector. The economic, social and institutional
analyses of the program were fully appropriate. Adequate implementation arrangements were put
in place before project approval. Bank safeguard policies were fully adhered to.

An area in which project preparation was less satisfactory was the risk analysis that downplayed
some important risks such as the Borrower's commitment to selected policy reform areas.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance during supervision was satisfactory. From Board approval (March 1998) to
the credit closing date (December 2004), a total of 13 missions visited Mauritania, a little less than
twice a year. Missions in November/December centered on the review of annual work programs
and on the activity planning for the sector in its entirety for the year to come. The mid-term
review took place in June 2001. Supervision reports were generally issued on time. There was
adequate staff continuity i.e., two task team leaders were responsible for project supervision
throughout the project implementation and the second team leader was also part of earlier
missions, ensuring excellent continuity. The composition of the supervision teams was also
adequate and the collaboration with stakeholders and, in particular, with donors was strengthened
during program implementation. The collaboration with and the support of the country team and
the Bank staff resident in Mauritania were excellent.

It is worth mentioning that the team was proactive and, at times, innovative in dealing with delays
in critical areas.  For instance, when there was no progress in activities to improve drug
procurement, the team, in close collaboration with GOM, included the creation of the Central
drug procurement and warehouse unit among the triggers of the HIPC Initiative. Thereafter, the
team followed up on this issue well (e.g., included this matter in all briefing notes provided to
Bank senior management, and in discussions during supervision missions and encounters either in
Nouakchott or in Washington). Similarly, the delay in the implementation of cost recovery
reforms was flagged in all aide memoirs. Lastly, when improvement in data reporting was slow,
IDA provided additional support to improve supporting tasks, both to the implementing agencies
and the MOHSA. Consequently, the planned DHS was carried out and additional funds were
provided for an Infant mortality and malaria survey. IDA also supported the Health Information
Management System by financing technical assistance, equipment for central and regional and
training.

It is worth noting that the team played an important role in sensitizing the government about
HIV/AIDS leading to the specific HIV/AIDS multi-sector project although the prevalence of the
disease was considered low. The team collaborated well with country staff and the other project
teams in Mauritania.

Notwithstanding this overall positive assessment there were areas in which Bank performance was
less satisfactory such as the risk assessment and the actions such assessment entailed, and the
rating of the disbursement lag (based on the large set of procurement activities in the pipeline and
despite disbursement lags exceeding 50 percent until June 2002, HSIP implementation progress
was rated satisfactory and supervision reports did not adequately emphasize the actions to solve
the many problems encountered).



                                               - 15 -

Even with these shortcomings, supervision was, overall, of good quality--satisfactory. It helped
MOHSA improve its planning, evaluation and coordinating role and strengthen its capability
overtime. It also cemented a very constructive work relationship with and among donors.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance is rated as Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of the Government during preparation is rated as satisfactory. The Government
made considerable efforts to design a well-focused Program, aiming at the most relevant issues in
the sector. GOM made it clear, early during project preparation, that it was strongly committed
to sector reform and, in particular, to: (i) improving health services with emphasis on increased
access and preventive care; (ii) promoting decentralization; (iii) extending the cost recovery
system to all facilities; and (iv) increasing its support to the sector. The gradual improvement of
the relations with the donor community and the leadership of MOHSA in both Program and HSIP
preparation were both excellent.

Government also strengthened MOHSA capacity to allow both the Program and the HSIP to
implement smoothly e.g., it created a Directorate for managing investments, it appointed new and
qualified staff on key positions (such as the directorates for Administrative Affairs, the Directorate
for Planning, and the Directorate for Managing Investments) by transferring personnel from the
Ministry of Finance and the Mauritanian Central Bank, and retained in the public system the best
performing staff of the previous IDA financed project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance during implementation is rated satisfactory. As indicated earlier, despite
assurances given during appraisal and negotiations, and satisfactory preparation work, the
implementation of the Program was delayed. The delay was caused, among others, by the: (a)
sensitivity of a few reform activities such as the set up of a staff redeployment and incentive
system and, to a certain extent, of the initiative with decentralizing decision making to regions
(which could not start in one single sector without being an element of a broad civil service
reform), (b) decline in donor financial support and, (c) the uniqueness and complexity of the
sector-wide approach for which very few donors had hands on experience in Africa. To
overcome these difficulties, the Government stated its commitment to the social sectors very
strongly, provided increased financial and human resources to the health sector and counterpart
funding was adequate. The process of integrating the developments in the health sector within
broader concerns with poverty alleviation such as HIPC and PRSP was outstanding.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The executing agency performance during implementation was marginally satisfactory. However,
as this rating is not available, the performance is rated as unsatisfactory. The MOHSA was the
implementing agency of HSIP. Some specific activities were contracted out to UNFPA (such as
the contribution to the Population census and the Demographic and health survey) that provided
technical support to ONS during execution. Amextipe executed the civil works. There was
sizable delay in civil works due to the difficulty of developing small health facilities scattered in


                                                  - 16 -

remote and low-density population areas, and also small capacity of Amextipe. The UNICEF and
ONS performance was commendable.

MOHSA performance in coordinating external and internal partners has gradually improved
during program implementation. Annual, sector-wide, progress review and activity plans were
prepared, discussed and consensus was reached with donors before approval and implementation.
Financial management was adequate.           Audits were performed as scheduled and audit
recommendations followed on. There were no missed procurement and supervision reports and
agreements were also observed.

There was uneven interest and support to a few reform activities from some MOHSA higher
management staff. Among these activities were: a) the creation of the Central drug procurement
and warehouse unit and b) the review of the cost recovery arrangements and the enactment of
legislation to improve service and drug availability for the poor. However, the newly appointed
staff were committed and, with sustained support from donors and IDA, these activities started
and were implemented (although the Central drug unit needs further support and the completion
of the cost recovery reform will be at the center of a future program of the sector).

MOHSA prepared a completion report basically centered on the program's outputs.               As
presented, this report (a summary is provided in section 9) does not provide sufficient data on
inputs and does not sufficiently discuss sector issues or achievement of program objectives.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the performance of the Government is rated as Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

A sector-wide approach for health development, when feasible, has considerable advantages over
the traditional investment project. The Government is in the driver's seat. It is in charge of
preparing, implementing and evaluating annual activity plans aiming to reach a sector-wide
program, and it coordinates donors' contributions.        Costly duplications, as well as special
arrangements for project implementation, could be avoided.           Also, a sector-wide approach
facilitates the coordination among all levels in the health delivery system. The additional time
spent for reaching consensus among stakeholders is a good investment for building up capacity.
In the case of Mauritania, public expenditure reviews before and during program implementation
were an essential tool for establishing and maintaining the framework for the sector-wide
approach.

The HIPC initiative has made a strong contribution to addressing key issues under the health
development program. It helped put health issues at the center of the policy dialogue between
Mauritania and the Bank. It gave a new impetus for re-launching the immunization program,
which had been neglected, and provided additional resources to the health sector, which were
used, in particular, to give hardship allowances to staff posted outside the capital city.

Quite often the supply of services does not immediately increase utilization rates. There is,
therefore, a need, early in the process, to develop specific activities aiming at improving the



                                                - 17 -

demand for services.        These include action on gender issues, civil society's participation,
community based pre-payment arrangements (mutuelles), strengthening health education and
promotion, etc. These activities are often not expensive and can also be used to reach other
objectives such as educating the consumer on health issues, increasing their involvement in health
facility management and in decision-making.

Monitoring indicators. Agreeing on a set of monitoring and evaluation indicators for which data
are available at the base line does not suffice, if at mid-term and at project closing comparable and
reliable information cannot be made available. Surveys, beneficiary assessments and other data
collection methods should be planned and carried out to provide data in a timely manner and, if
necessary, data collection should be financially supported from the credit.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1.       Introduction :

Le Projet d'Appui au gouvernement mauritanien dans l'atteinte des objectifs du plan directeur de la santé et
des affaires sociales (1998-2002). Le financement global de ce projet s'élève à un montant de 17.800.000
DTS, soit environ 24 millions de dollars américains.

Les objectifs du PASS reprennent ceux du plan Directeur de la santé 1998-2002 en les reformulant et
comprennent :

·        l'amélioration de la couverture et la qualité des services de santé par: (a) la modernisation et
l'extension du réseau de formation de soins de santé primaires et la prestation des services de santé aux
niveaux secondaire et tertiaire; et (b) l'assurance des services appropriés de maintenance et de réparation;
·        l'accroissement du financement et l'amélioration de la performance du secteur par : (a) le
renforcement de la capacité de conception, de gestion, de coordination et de planification du MSAS et des
Districts; (b) la promotion de la participation des bénéficiaires dans la prise de décision et dans le système
de recouvrement des coûts; et (c) la promotion de la médecine traditionnelle et l'encouragement du secteur
privé;
·        l'atténuation des effets des principaux problèmes de santé publique par: (a) la réduction de la
mortalité maternelle, infantile et juvénile; (b) l'amélioration de l'état nutritionnel de la population; et (c) la
réduction de la morbidité et la gravité des maladies infectieuses et non transmissibles; et
·        le renforcement de l'action sociale et la création d'un environnement favorable à la santé par: (a)
l'élaboration et la mise en place d'une politique en matière d'action sociale et le renforcement de la DAS et
des services d'actions sociales au niveau des districts; (b) la réalisation d'une enquête démographique et
d'un recensement démographique; (c) le renforcement du système d'information du secteur; et (d) le
développement des capacités en matière d'éduca-tion pour la santé.

Pour atteindre ces objectifs, le PASS devait fournir un appui financier pour permettre :

(i)      la réalisation des travaux de génie civil nécessaires pour moderniser et étendre le réseau des
structures de soins de santé primaires et le renforcement des services des structures secondaires et tertiaires,




                                                      - 18 -

(ii)     l'acquisition des équipements, médicaments et consommables médicaux des structures réhabilitées
et construites, du matériel et de logistiques nécessaires au renforcement des capacités du MSAS et des
structures de santé,

(iii)     la fourniture des services de consultation et d'actions de formation pour les agents techniques et
administratifs du MSAS, et

(iv)     l'appui aux structures impliquées dans la mise en oeuvre du projet par la prise en charge des frais
de leur fonctionnement engendrés par le projet.

La mise en oeuvre de ces différents volets suivant une approche sectorielle a suscité une synergie au niveau
du département, favorable à la mise en place des procédures de planification et de gestion, à l'amélioration
de l'efficacité administrative et clinique, à la décentralisation de la prise de décision et à l'institution de
mécanismes de coordination appropriés.

En dépit des difficultés éprouvées par le département, notamment au début du projet, pour mener à bien une
telle approche, l'exécution du projet a permis l'atteinte de la plupart des objectifs fixés si l'on en juge par
les réalisations accomplies depuis le démarrage des activités.

2.       Réalisations du Projet :

Les activités menées par le projet se distinguent par la multiplicité des centres de dépenses, la diversité des
intervenants et des actions menées (génie civil, équipements, médicaments et consommables médicaux,
formation, études, enquêtes et appui au fonctionnement des structures centrales et déconcentrées).

A/ Génie civil :

Dès 1997, le MSAS avait élaboré en rapport avec l'IDA, un plan de Développement des Infrastructures
Sanitaires (PDIS) qui a mis en exergue les problèmes d'accessibilité géographique des populations aux
structures sanitaires. La démarche suivie reposait sur (i) la définition des besoins à satisfaire en
infrastructures, (ii) l'organisation du réseau des services de santé surtout au niveau périphérique, (iii) la
sélection des sites prioritaires des formations à construire et l'élaboration d'un programme de travaux de
construction pour la période quinquennale (1998 ­ 2002). Les priorités identifiées ont fait l'objet d'un
programme convenu entre le gouvernement mauritanien et l'IDA.

Conformément à ce programme, trois conventions de maîtrise d'ouvrage ont été passées dans le cadre du
PASS avec l'AMEXTIPE et mises oeuvre qui ont permis :
(i)      la construction de 54 postes de santé,
(ii)     la réhabilitation et extension de 7 hôpitaux régionaux,
(iii)    la construction d'une clinique de porte au CHN,
(iv)     la réhabilitation et l'extension du CNP,
(v)      la réhabilitation des bâtiments de l'ENSP,
(vi)     la construction du Centre National de Santé Familiale, et
(vii)    la construction des bureaux de la DRPSS de Rosso.

En outre, le projet a contribué à la mise en place du Centre Hospitalier de Nouadhibou à travers le
financement des services relatifs au suivi des travaux de construction de cet hôpital.



                                                     - 19 -

Ces réalisations s'inscrivent dans l'objectif d'étendre, de redynamiser et de moderniser le réseau des
formations sanitaires du pays. Bien qu'il soit encore prématuré de parler de leur impact sur la santé des
populations, elles ont contribué à l'amélioration de la couverture sanitaire horizontale et verticale, à travers
l'amélioration de l'accessibilité des populations aux services de santé de première nécessité et le
développement du plateau technique des hôpitaux tertiaires.
Au niveau régional, l'amélioration de l'accessibilité des soins aux populations s'est traduite par l'extension
du réseau des formations sanitaires du niveau primaire et du niveau secondaire. Les nouvelles constructions
ont permis de :
-        augmenter le nombre d'infrastructures sanitaires du pays et d'en faire bénéficier les populations
des zones défavorisées,
-        de corriger certains déséquilibres liés à la distribution des structures de santé rendue désormais
plus en harmonie avec celle des populations sur le territoire national,
-        rendre plus équitable le système des services de santé en vers la populations qu'il desserve,
-        renforcer le système à sa base afin de contribuer à l'opérationnalisation des différents niveaux de la
pyramide sanitaire.

S'agissant des hôpitaux régionaux, qui constituent l'épine dorsale du système régional dans son ensemble,
les actions entreprises ont permis d'étendre les capacités de ces structures en vue de renforcer l'accessibilité
des services de santé aux populations par la mise en place des structures hospitalières de référence dans les
régions.
Au niveau tertiaire, les réalisations accomplies dans le cadre du projet s'inscrivent dans le même objectif de
renforcement et de modernisation du système national de soins de santé. En effet, la construction d'une
clinique de porte avec la réalisation de travaux complémentaires au CHN et la réhabilitation des locaux du
CNP constituent les principaux acquis dans ce domaine au niveau tertiaire.
La prise en charge complète des urgences de la clinique de porte dans les délais et suivant les normes
techniques requises, constitue une réponse appropriée à l'engorgement du CHN.
L'extension du réseau des infrastructures sanitaires a rendu indispensable la mise à disposition d'un
personnel suffisant et qualifié. C'est dans cette optique que s'inscrit l'extension des capacités d'accueil de
l'ENSP. Grâce à l'amélioration de la capacité d'accueil de cette structure de formation, le nombre des
effectifs recrutés a sensiblement augmenté au cours des dernières années.

b/ Equipements, matériels et consommables médicaux :
Les objectifs de ce sous programme étaient d'assurer la disponibilité des équipements et des moyens
matériels dans les structures sanitaires à un niveau garantissant la mise à la disposition des populations des
services de santé de qualité adaptés à leurs besoins. L'atteinte de cet objectif a été recherchée à travers la
fourniture des équipements, matériels et consommables médicaux adéquats pour :
(i)      les structures nouvellement construites ou réhabilitées dans le cadre du projet,
(ii)     des structures construites ou réhabilitées sur le financement d'autres partenaires (BID, CFD, etc.)
et
(iii)    le remplacement ou complément des équipements et matériels médicaux de certaines structures
existantes dont la vétusté ne permet pas de répondre aux objectifs de fonctionnalité recherchée.

Les acquisitions effectuées dans le domaine des équipements - dont une grande part est destinée aux
structures régionales du niveau primaire et secondaire - s'inscrivent dans une stratégie générale visant à
rendre les services de santé accessibles à la majorité des populations du pays avec des répercussions
importantes sur la lutte contre la maladie et la promotion de la santé.

Ces acquisitions répondent, par ailleurs, à un objectif de performance du système par la redynamisation de
ses structures, avec un accent particulier sur le niveau régional et le renforcement de ses capacités


                                                     - 20 -

techniques.

La mise en oeuvre de ce programme a permis d'acquérir des quantités importantes d'équipements et
matériels biomédicaux, ainsi que des produits pharmaceutiques (médicaments, contraceptifs, réactifs et
consommables). Ainsi, on note :
-       l'équipement complet pour 108 postes de santé (PS) dont 54 nouvellement construits,

-       18 centres de santé ont été entièrement équipés par le projet,

-       Pour le niveau secondaire, les 7 hôpitaux réhabilités ont été entièrement équipés, de même que
l'hôpital d'Aleg.

-       Pour le niveau tertiaire, près de 13 lots d'équipements médicaux et techniques ont été acquis et
livrés au CHN et au CNP.

A cela s'ajoutent des équipements de laboratoire destinés au Centre national d'hygiène et au Centre de
transfusion sanguine (8 banques de sang, etc.).



c) Logistique et équipements non médicaux :
Outre les équipements et matériels médicaux le projet a financé d'importantes actions visant à renforcer les
capacités des structures du département par l'acquisition de la logistique et des équipements non médicaux
nécessaires pour l'atteinte des objectifs visés.
Trois sous catégories ont été ciblées par ces programmes à savoir le mobilier et équipement de bureau, le
matériel roulant, le matériel et équipements autres.

La réalisation des activités retenues dans le cadre de ce volet a permis d'obtenir les résultats suivants :

Pour les acquisitions relatives aux équipements et mobilier de bureau :
Les commandes réalisées ont profité aux différentes structures du MSAS qu'elles soient du niveau central
ou régional suivant les besoins définis. Une priorité a été accordée aux structures ayant en charge la mise
en oeuvre des programmes de santé pour adapter leurs capacités au volume de leurs missions. Les
commandes ont couvert :
(i)     les besoins en matériel informatique qui ont fait l'objet de plus de 11 commandes comprenant des
livraisons du matériel et l'installation des programmes et logiciels spécialisés ; ces commandes étaient
destinées en partie au niveau régional et
(ii)    le mobilier de bureaux dont plus de 8 commandes ont été acquises et livrées aux différentes
structures du MSAS y compris le niveau régional,


Pour le matériel roulant :
Les réalisations comprennent près de 7 commandes qui ont permis entre autres:
-       l'acquisition de plus de 45 véhicules au profit des structures centrales et régionales, dont 8
ambulances qui ont été affectées aux structures régionales.
-       l'achat de 80 motos qui ont été fournis aux structures périphériques dans le même but,

Pour le matériel et équipement autres :
Aussi, le projet a permis au département l'achat et la livraison d'autres types de logistique nécessaire pour
le fonctionnement des structures et du système dans son ensemble. Les acquisitions effectuées, qui


                                                     - 21 -

s'inscrivent dans le cadre des objectifs de performance du système de santé recherché par le département,
en ont bénéficié aussi bien ses structures centrales (tertiaires et administratives) que ses structures
régionales (secondaires et périphériques).

Elles correspondent à des besoins techniques dont la persistance pourrait compromettre les résultats
attendus des actions engagées. Les acquisitions effectuées dans ce domaine comprennent :
-       la fourniture de trois commandes d'équipements et matériels de froid au profit des structures
centrales, des DRPSS et des hôpitaux.
-       L'acquisition 20 radios de communication pour les besoins de liaison au sein du niveau régional et
entre celui-ci et le niveau central. Cette acquisition est destinée à renforcer les capacités du système d'alerte
et de surveillance épidémiologique sur le terrain.
-       La fourniture des équipements et matériels des salles de travaux pratiques pour l' ENSP. Ces
équipements ont renforcé les capacités techniques et pédagogiques de cette structure de formation unique en
son genre dans le pays.

F) Dans le domaine de la formation :

L'action du projet dans ce domaine était destinée principalement à la formation continue (locale et à
l'étranger) des personnels techniques et administratifs du département. Le volet formation de base a connu
quelques interventions du projet soit en appui à des programmes déjà lancés (ceux des résidents de l'INSM)
ou à des programmes à réaliser (celui des accoucheuses auxiliaires). L'appui des structures de formation
(INSM et ENSP) s'inscrit également dans ce cadre.

De façon générale, les activités réalisées ont été destinées à:
-       l'amélioration des compétences et des performances des agents bénéficiaires des sessions de
formation pour rehausser la qualité des services des structures de santé,
-       au renforcement des capacités d'administration et gestion et de suivi/évaluation des structures et
responsables du MSAS,
-       la dotation du Département de certaines catégories et spécialités répondant à des besoins urgents.

Les résultats obtenus à ce niveau témoignent d'une importance capitale accordée à ce volet par le MSAS
qui s'est manifestée à travers (i) le volume et l'étendu des activités réalisées, (ii) la diversité des thèmes et
des populations couverts, (iii) la multiplicité des organes du MSAS qui en ont bénéficié et (iv) l'importance
des ressources allouées à son exécution.

Ces formations ont été soit réalisées au niveau local (national et régional) soit au niveau international. Les
actions entreprises comprennent :

Les formations orientées vers le renforcement des compétences du personnel chargé de
l'administration et la gestion, qui ont permis :
-       La formation du personnel occupant des fonctions administratives sur les techniques de conception,
de gestion et de suivi/évaluation des programmes. Ces formations qui ont couvert une variété de domaines
comprenant la santé publique les techniques de planification, la gestion administrative et financière et en
suivi/évaluation, ont profité à plusieurs structures dont les structures régionales.
-       L'organisation de 30 activités de formation (entre voyages d'études et sessions de formation à
l'étranger dans des domaines relatifs à la gestion et l'administration des structures de santé. Ces sessions
ont bénéficié à plus de 60 agents du MSAS occupant des fonctions administratives au département dont les
médecins chefs des hôpitaux régionaux et les médecins chefs des centres de moughataa.
-       L'organisation de plus de 31 sessions de formation locale destinées à renforcer les capacités de


                                                      - 22 -

l'administration nationale et régionale dont près de 10 en informatique. Environ 250 personnes ont
bénéficié de ces différentes sessions de formation,

Les formations orientées vers le renforcement des compétences du personnel technique :
-        plus de 125 sessions de formation organisées au niveau national (central et régional) destinés au
personnel prestataires des services de santé. Ces sessions comprennent 20 sur les thèmes de la SR, 17
traitent du paludisme, 16 du PEV, 16 sur le SRC, 12 sur la tuberculose, 11 sur traitent du SIDA, 9 traitent
de lutte contre la schistosomiase, etc.
-        la formation de plusieurs agents parmi le personnel soignant dans les structures de santé sur la
surveillance et la prise en charge de la malnutrition sous ses des différentes formes (plus de 90 agents ont
bénéficié de ces sessions de formation). Les sessions de formation organisées ont ciblé en premier lieu les
régions supposées avoir une prévalence élevée de malnutrition,
-        la participation de plus de 55 agents de santé en exercice dans les structures de soins (ou qui y
serviront comme les 24 résidents de l'INSM) à 12 sessions de formation à l'étranger liées aux spécialités et
professions techniques de la santé. Ces sessions de formation ont permis le perfectionnement et
l'amélioration des compétences du personnel prestataire dans les structures de soins.

G) Le volet des études et recherches :

Le volet des études et recherches s'intègre lui aussi dans la même logique de recherche de performance du
système et aux objectifs de renforcement des capacités techniques. Le Plan directeur de la santé 1998-2002
prévoit, pour améliorer la performance du système, d'accroître les capacités techniques de diagnostic et de
traitement et de renforcer les capacités de gestion et de planification.

En effet, les actions entreprises dans le domaine des études et de recherches ont répondu à des besoins
relevant de l'un ou l'autre des objectifs visés ou encore aux deux objectifs à la fois. Globalement, elles
comportaient à deux types à savoir:

Ø        des études visant à concevoir et élaborer des instruments d'appui à la mise en oeuvre des
programmes.

Ø        des actions de diagnostic (recherches opérationnelles, études techniques, etc), et

Les réalisations enregistrées se sont inscrites dans les différents domaines d'action couverts par le
département. Les actions concernent notamment:

Pour les études visant à concevoir et élaborer des instruments d'appui à la mise en oeuvre des
programmes :
A ce titre le projet a financé la réalisation de près de 20 études relevant de plusieurs domaines en rapport
directe avec l'action du département ou influençant son action.
Les actions réalisées dans ce cadre ont permis de mettre au point des instruments utiles de travail qui sont
de nature à renforcer les outils de conception et de gestion des activités du secteur. Les outils élaborés ont
contribué à :
-        mettre en place les mécanismes de gestion des programmes de santé à travers une meilleure prise en
charge des fonctions de coordination, de planification, d'exécution, de supervision et de suivi évaluation,
-        adapter le cadre institutionnel aux évolutions qu'a connues le secteur et d'actualiser ses stratégies
d'intervention,
-        renforcer les capacités des structures du département en les dotant des instruments du travail mais
aussi par le transfert des compétences et l'introduction de nouvelles méthodes de travail,


                                                     - 23 -

-        la réalisation de plusieurs études relatives à la mise en place des projets et réformes revêtant des
caractères de priorité pour le département.

Pour les études de diagnostic et d'analyse institutionnelles et opérationnelles:

·        Etudes de diagnostic institutionnel :
Plus de 6 études de diagnostic institutionnel qui ont permis d'aboutir à des conclusions dont la prise en
compte a amélioré sensiblement l'action du département et la prise en charge de ses missions. Ces études
ont permis de revoir certains aspects de l'action précédente du département dont les dépenses publiques de
santé, le système de gestion financière, les avancements dans la mise en oeuvre des politiques sectorielles et
les projets qui les sous-tendent et l'évaluation des capacités du département.

·        Etudes de diagnostic opérationnel (enquêtes, études de terrains, etc.):
En plus de l'appui au recensement 2000, plus de 21 enquêtes de diagnostic opérationnel ont été réalisées.
La diversité de ces études opérationnelles témoigne de la prise de conscience par le Département de
l'importance de maintenir un rythme régulier d'investigation permettant de rendre compte sur l'évolution
des indicateurs de santé, la situation sanitaire et les résultats et impact de l'action entreprise dans le cadre
du secteur.

Les études réalisées à ce titre ont couvert plusieurs volets du domaine de l'action sanitaire et plusieurs
groupes cibles. Ces études ont permis d'identifier les problèmes de santé pour les groupes concernés et
d'améliorer leur prise en compte par un meilleur ciblage.


3.       Analyse des Facteurs Ayant Influencé l'Exécution du Projet :

D'une manière générale, la mise en oeuvre du projet a été affectée par un ensemble de facteurs hétérogènes
qui ont tantôt constitué des sources de réussite et dans des cas des goulots d'étranglement.

Tout d'abord, il convient de souligner que le projet a été exécuté dans le cadre d'une approche sectorielle
qui a consacré la participation de l'ensemble des organes du département aussi bien ceux du niveau central
que ceux du niveau régional dans la mise en oeuvre de la politique du secteur. L'application de cette
approche a été associée à des effets qui ont marqué favorablement la mise en oeuvre du projet. Elle a permis
en effet:
-        une meilleure articulation des fonctions fondamentales (coordination, planification, exécution,
gestion, suivi/évaluation, etc.) pour le développement d'une action socio-saniataire coordonnée et ciblée
dans le cadre du secteur.

-        l'introduction et l'instauration des mécanismes et instruments de coordination et de gestion des
programmes adaptés à l'exercice des fonctions induites par la mise en oeuvre des activités découlant de la
politique de santé.

-        La contribution à l'amélioration des capacités techniques et la modernisation des structures à
travers l'organisation de leurs actions et leur focalisation sur l'exercice des taches qui sont en harmonie
avec leur vocation.

-        L'adhésion et la participation active des partenaires du département aux modalités de coordination
mises en application dans le cadre de cette approche ce qui a permis une prise en charge des priorités du


                                                      - 24 -

département suivant une répartition des domaines d'intérêt respectifs parmi les partenaires.

-        La mobilisation des ressources importantes pour le secteur qui a suscité une dynamique favorable à
la réalisation des programmes et activités qui en découlent.

En ce qui concerne les limites de cette approche qui se sont répercutées négativement sur l'exécution du
projet, il est à signaler que:

-        compte tenu du caractère participatif de cette approche qui repose sur l'implication de tous les
niveaux comme parties prenantes à la mise en oeuvre des programmes, l'application de cette approche
suppose une préparation et des capacités institutionnelles plus importantes. Ces éléments n'ont pas été
suffisamment pris en compte lors de l'introduction de cette approche au MSAS. Cet état de fait a beaucoup
pénalisé la mise en oeuvre des activités ce qui s'est répercuté négativement sur l'exécution du projet soit
sous forme de retards ou encore sous forme de résultats moindres que ceux escompté.

-        Le lancement de l'approche dans cet élan a crée dès le départ des inadéquations entre le volume des
programmes et les capacités dont disposent les structures qui les prennent en charge. Ce déséquilibre fut
maintenu par la suite par les structures elles-mêmes dans leurs programmes par ambition et manque de
prise en compte de leurs capacités et des procédures d'exécution.

-        L'absence de mécanismes d'arbitrage stricte, prenant en compte ces aspects opérationnels au
niveau de la planification centralisée, dans un souci de souplesse de la planification pour mieux répondre
aux besoins, a encouragé aussi les doubles emplois concernant les activités quant à leur source de
financement.

-        L'engagement des partenaires traditionnels du MSAS dans cette approche avec les avantages
comparatifs surtout liés aux procédures d'exécution a quelques fois suscité le désistement à la réalisation
de certaines activités inscrites sur les fonds du projet en faveur de leur inscription dans les programmes des
autres bailleurs.

Outre ces aspects liés à l'approche sectorielle qui est le cadre général de sa mise en oeuvre du projet,
l'exécution de celui-ci a été affectée par d'autres facteurs dont :
-        les difficultés liées à la mise en application des régies d'avance qui ont buté sur des problèmes de
justificatifs fournis par les structures concernées souvent en retard et pas toujours conformes aux
procédures de gestion applicables,
-        les procédures de mise en oeuvre qui n'ont pas été maîtrisées par les intervenants du secteur ont
toujours été considérées comme source de blocage malgré les actions de vulgarisation et d'accompagnement
proactif de la DGI. L'insuffisance de la maîtrise de ces règles a toujours fait surgir aussi des problèmes de
délogement des activités par rapport à leurs catégories les plus indiquées.

-        Les retards répétés quant à l'élaboration, l'approbation et la mise en oeuvre des programmes, ce qui
a souvent rendu les programmes inexécutables en temps réel (les POAS ne sont généralement prêts pour
l'exécution qu'entre avril et juin) ,
-        Aussi, il convient de souligner les insuffisances liées à la coordination des activités entre les
structures internes du département et entre celles-ci et les autres organes publics externes au département
impliqués dans la mise en oeuvre du projet qui ne prenaient pas en compte les spécificités de l'approche
sectorielle.

-        le manque d'adéquation entre la charge du travail et les capacités techniques (compétences


                                                      - 25 -

humaines, ressources matérielles et logistiques) requises a pénalisé l'exécution des programmes. Ceci a
pénalisé notamment la structure de gestion du projet (DGI) qui en a souffert depuis le début du projet et
davantage suite aux événements de juin 2003 et le recrutement d'une partie de son personnel additionnel
par d'autres

organes (CAMEC, SENLS). Il a affecté également le programme de génie civil confié à l'Amextipe qui a
souffert des insuffisances des capacités de cette agence recrutée comme maître d'ouvrage délégué.

Enfin, le projet a été affecté par le mode de gestion, jugé très lourd par certains intervenants, puisqu'il fait
intervenir plusieurs niveaux et comprend plusieurs étapes (centres de dépenses, centres de gestion,
bailleurs, centre d'exécution, etc.). Cette lourdeur qui est souvent soulevée est attribuée à :

-        La non compréhension des procédures de gestion (règles d'initiation, d'engagement et de
liquidation) du projet par les structures du MSAS,

-        Les procédures de passation des marchés qui prennent des délais parfois trop longs aussi bien lors
du traitement des dossiers au niveau des commissions nationales (Départementale et Nationale) que lors de
l'approbation des dossiers et décisions par l'IDA,

-        Un long parcours des requêtes caractérisant les étapes devant précéder la mise en oeuvre de toute
activité. Ce parcours qui comprend près de cinq (appui au fonctionnement) à sept étapes (formation) ou
plus (études), suivant les catégories, (centre de dépense ­ tutelle ­ centre de gestion -- IDA -- centre de
gestion -- centre de dépense -- centre de gestion) peut se voir doublé avec la moindre réserve émise par le
centre de gestion ou le bailleur sur la requête. Le parcours de ces étapes prend des délais importants et
constituait en fait un défi réel.

-        Les méthodes de traitement des dossiers par le centre de gestion et par l'IDA basées sur une
approche jugée rigide et statique par les administrateurs des crédits et les centres d'exécution,

Cependant, ces méthodes, bien que parfois onéreuses en terme de temps,                 ont crée un climat de
collaboration, de confiance et de franchise entre l'IDA d'une part, la DGI et les structures du Département
de l'autre, ce qui a permis :
-        d'éviter les erreurs de gestion qui proviennent généralement de la confusion et de l'ambiguïté des
échanges entre les parties prenantes,
-        d'assurer un système de gestion claire et lisible à travers les documents et pièces justificatives des
dépenses effectuées,
-        un attachement des parties concernées à l'application autant que faire se peut des règles et
procédures convenues entre les parties.

4.        Conclusion et leçons tirées:

L'exécution du PASS, même si elle a connu des retards importants par rapport au calendrier initial
d'exécution, a permis d'obtenir des résultats encourageants pour le secteur de la santé. Les réalisations ont
été étendues aux différentes priorités stratégiques du département facilitant ainsi l'atteinte des objectifs
visés.

Les programmes et plans spécifiques (PDIS, PRCI, PDRH, etc.) mis en oeuvre, et qui constituaient les axes
d'intervention du projet, ont fait des progrès remarquables, qui auront avec l'achèvement des actions



                                                     - 26 -

complémentaires en cours de finalisation un impact positif aussi bien sur le développement du secteur et de
son action que sur l'état de santé des populations.

 Par ailleurs, il convient de noter l'importance des étapes préparatoires du projet qui devaient réunir les
conditions pour une action coordonnée et participative permettant aux différents organes d'être capables de
participer chacun en ce qui le concerne et suivant la nature des taches attribuées à la réussite des
programmes. Malgré les insuffisances constatées sur ce plan, le projet et l'approche qui a constitué le cadre
de son exécution ont crée une dynamique réelle au sein des structures du département qu'il faudra
consolider et parfaire en vue de promouvoir la performance du système dans son ensemble. Aussi, la mise
en oeuvre du projet a permis de capitaliser une expérience et de partager des techniques et des règles de
conduite qui ont aidé à moderniser l'action des structures du département.

Toutefois, l'importance des réalisations enregistrées et des défis qui restent à vaincre exigent de continuer
les efforts entrepris pour consolider les acquis, pérenniser les résultats et faire face aux problèmes qui
subsistent ou peuvent surgir.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                                          Baseline            31/12/2000                 30/06/2003                31/12/2004
                                                              (mid-term)           (original closing date)    (actual end of project)

                                                         Target      Actual                                    Target       Actual

 Outcome/Impact Indicators
 Vaccination coverage (children 0-11        65%           75%         n.a.           85%            75%         85%          82%
 months)
 Expenditures for primary and               40%           40%         36%            40%            57%         40%          51%
 secondary health care (to be
 maintained at same levels as in 1995
 i.e. at least 40% of total
 expenditures)*
 Health facilities utilization rates (to     0.3           0.3         0.3            0.4            0.4         0.5         0.34
 increase to 70% by 2000 and to 80%      visit/inhab
 by 2002)* (1)
 Infant mortality rate per 1000*             118           95         74.5            80             74         N/A          N/A
 Under-five mortality rate per 1000*         182          140         112             90             123        N/A          N/A
 Total fertility rate (to be reduced         6.5           6           4.7            5.5            4.1        N/A          N/A
 from 6.5 in 1997 to 6.0 by 2000 and
 to 5.5 by 2002)*
 HIV prevalence rate among                  0.5%         <1%          0.5%           <1%            N/A         <1%          0.83
 pregnant women

 Output Indicators
 Develop health facilities according      See table
 to PDIS*                                     1
 Number of health posts fully                208          350         240            290              --         443         339
 functional and supervised*
 Increase primary health care               65%           67%         77%            70%              --        80%          73%
 coverage, i.e., geographical                                      (31/12/01)
 accessibility less than five
 kilometers from health center of
 health post*
 Increase consumer satisfaction*         --            Beneficiary assessments not performed.
 Increase, or at least maintain donor      1,406         1,406        2,802         1,406          2,090        1,406        1,685
 financing of the health sector (at
 least in constant prices) at the level
 of 1995 (UM billion)*
 Increase percentage share of            6.5%          7.5%       8%             --             --            8.5%        8.4%
 recurrent budget for health*
 Extend cost recovery to secondary       None          Cost recovery was achieved in regional hospitals starting in 1998/99, but not
 health facilities (by 2000)*                          everywhere and not systematically.
 Increase contraceptive prevalence       2.5%          5%         5%             8%             --            10%         8%
 rate*
 Increase antenatal care rates*          35%           50%        65%            --             75%           75%         68%
 Increase postnatal care*                22%           40%        38%            --             --            60%         N/A
 Decrease under-five malnutrition        30%           25%        28%            N/A            N/A           N/A         N/A
 rates*
 Formulate and endorse policy for        None          Done       Done           Done           Done          Done        Done
 social action*
 Number of studies conducted on          Non           3          2              4              5             5           5
 underserved groups (at least one
 annually)* (2)
 Formulate and disseminate IEC           None          Done       Done           Done           Done          Done        Done
 messages to raise demand for
 contraception*

*Indicator marked with an * are included in the PAD Annex 1
 (1) Visit per inhabitant was the only measure available to measure health facilities utilization rates.
 (2) a) Diagnostic de la situation des enfants de la rue à NKTT, NDB et Kiffa (MOHSA); b) Diagnostic de la situation des handicapé
 (CRN); c) Etude des forfaits obstétricaux (Coopération Française); d) Subsidies to the poor in Hodh El Chargui (GTZ); e) Subsidies to
 the poor in Hodh Gharbi (GTZ)




                                                                        - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      Appraisal        Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                       Estimate          Estimate             Appraisal
                          Component                                  US$ million        US$ million
Improve Health Services Quality and Coverage                             86.40               72.90                    83
Improve Health Sector's Financing and Performance                        37.40               34.70                    93
Mitigate the effects of major Public Health Problems                     56.50               53.60                    95
Promote Social Action and Create an Environment                          11.30               10.70                    95
Conducive to Health

Total Baseline Cost                                                     191.60              171.90
                             Total Project Costs                        191.60              171.90
                     Total Financing Required                           191.60              171.90

The table over describes planned versus actual Program cost per component. (For information the part
financed by IDA, see table under: Project Financing by Component.) IDA supported this Program acting
as a last resort lender. Activities to receive financial support from the credit was identified for the first two
calendar years of the Program. The remainder of the credit (73%) was to be allocated during the remaining
years.

Project cost per component is detailed in Annex 8.



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                 1
                                                       Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                             Other
1. Works                                0.91                4.67              0.00             0.00              5.58
                                        (0.51)             (1.88)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (2.39)
2. Goods                                7.75                0.14              0.47             0.00              8.36
                                        (7.10)             (0.05)            (0.47)            (0.00)           (7.62)
3. Services                             0.00                0.00              5.60             0.00              5.60
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.06)            (0.00)           (3.06)
4. Miscellaneous                        0.00                0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                        0.00                0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                        0.00                0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    Total                               8.66                4.81              6.07             0.00             19.54
                                        (7.61)             (1.93)            (3.53)            (0.00)           (13.07)

  1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

  2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
    of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)



                                                       - 29 -

      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                              IDA          Govt.        CoF.         IDA        Govt.      CoF.  IDA    Govt.   CoF.
Improve Health Services                                             17.20       35.80     20.00
Quality and Coverage
Improve Health Sector's                                              7.10       19.00      8.50
Financing and
Performance
Mitigate the effects of                                              4.01       39.01     15.60
major Public Health
Problems
Promote Social Action and                                            0.19       4.67       0.95
Create an Environment
Conducive to Health




                                                          - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Source: Mauritania, Focusing Public Expenditure on Growth and Poverty Reduction, Public
Expenditure Review, June 25, 2004 (Report No. 29167-MAU)

Analysis shows that the health sector policy over the last years has been successful in improving
efficiency and equity by shifting health expenditures towards: (i) high cost-effective interventions;
(ii) primary health care; and (iii) services in rural and remote areas. However, service delivery
performance did not keep up with expenditures. The utilization rates of public health care
facilities are low and stagnant with the per capita outpatient consultation of 0.3- to 0.4
consultations per year (public sector only), suggesting that people choose to go to hospitals (and
preferably to tertiary care facilities or traditional medicine) instead of going to the nearest health
centre or post. Possible explanations include (a) lack of drugs, equipment, and trained personnel
at the primary care level, especially in rural areas.

In Mauritania, the public health budget covers two levels of government: the central and the
regions.   Traditionally, the MHSA has had a limited role in deciding the overall budgetary
allocation to the health sector. However, since 2000, the overall level of recurrent spending on
health is determined on the basis of the medium term expenditures framework (MTEF) instead of
incremental budgeting based on projected growth rates of total revenue and of total recurrent
expenditures that pays little attention to health goals and priorities. Regions are at liberty to make
their own spending decisions based on local situation and allocation norms provided by the
MHSA, although transfers to regions remain modest.

The allocation of funds to the health sector increased from 1.9 to 4.0 percent of GDP over the
period 1998-2002. In US$ per capita terms, expenditure allocated to health increased from $7.7
to $13.9. The gap between allocated budgets and actual spending are quite important and
deteriorating. For instance, in 2002, executed health expenditures accounted for 2.7 percent of
GDP and US $9.3 per capita. This expenditure under-run may be attributed to the low absorptive
capacity of the health sector, unable to take up a large spending on poverty reducing projects that
increased sharply following the implementation of the MTEF. In particular, the shortfall in
spending may be due to three factors: (i) lack of understanding about procurement procedures
(IDA and government) due to an acute shortage of trained procurement experts; (ii) cumbersome
and time-consuming approval processes and inadequate guidelines for procurement of supplies
and services; and (iii) insuggiicient capacity of the civil work management agency (Amextipe) and
local contractors.




                                                  - 31 -

                           Table: Health Expenditures by Levels of Services

                                                                1998   1999   2000  2001  2002
Allocation by levels
Primary (allocation, as a % of total allocated health exp.)       23.4  18.3   24.1 43.1  42.6
Secondary (allocation, as a % of total allocated health exp.)      7.5  4.7    16.2 10.2  12.2
Tertiary (allocation, as a % of total allocated health exp.)      16.2  32.5   30.6 16.3  16.7
Central adm (allocation, as a % of total allocated health         52.7  44.5   29.1  30.4   28.6
exp.)
Execution by levels
Executed budget for primary (as a % of primary allocation)       99.8   98.2  99.3  39.3  68.4
Executed budget for secondary (as a % of secondary                90.8 100.0   94.7  42.0   44.2
allocation)
Executed budget for tertiary (as a % of tertiary allocation)      88.4  99.3   99.9  57.5   70.5
Executed budget for central adm (as a % of central adm           100.0  99.9  100.0  57.8   73.1
allocation)


Primary (execution, as a % of total executed health exp.)        24.1   18.2  24.2  35.2  43.3
Secondary (execution, as a % of total executed health exp.)        7.0  4.7    15.5   8.9    8.0
Tertiary (execution, as a % of total executed health exp.)       14.7  32.4    30.9  19.5   17.6
Central adm (execution, as a % of total executed health          54.1  44.7    29.4  36.5   31.1
exp.)


As far as spending by region is concerned, Mauritania has made remarkable efforts in redirecting
health spending towards decentralized units. Now more than 57 percent of the health sector
budget is spent in decentralized units compared to 40 percent targeted. However, the poorest
regions have benefited less than others and equity has not been achieved as intended. An
examination of the per capita expenditure and poverty distribution shows that richer regions, i.e.,
those with fewer persons below the poverty line, tend to spend more public money per person
compared with the poor regions. This phenomenon will need to be redressed in the future, with a
view to improving the health status of the poorest segments of the population.

In terms of equity of health spending, on an average, household expenditure on health in
Mauritania represents around 5.5 percent of total expenditure, a relatively low level if compared
to other countries in the sub-region. As health expenditures increase with the level of well-being,
its relative weight diminishes as income level increase. Amongst the richest households' health
expenditure is in the order of 4.6 percent of total expenditure while amongst the poorest it
accounts for nearly 9 percent of total expenditure. The more important the weight of health
expenditure in the poor, the more increase in inequity.

Although the size of cost recovery schemes at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels is
relatively small, these schemes have succeeded in keeping drugs accessible to the poor. For
instance, despite the fact that essential drugs are sold in the public sector at about two to three
times their procurement price, they are of a better quality and seven to eight times cheaper than



                                                         - 32 -

the drugs sold in private pharmacies. However recent problems call for the reform of the cost
recovery system in order to improve the management of its proceeds and better protect the
utilization of health services by the poor.    Regarding affordability of services, a system of
exemptions exists for deprived people, for preventive services like immunization and for curative
services needed in relation to conditions such as tuberculosis, leprosy etc., which have strong
public externalities. As these conditions affect more frequently the poor, the health system also
promotes equity.

Since 2001 the trends of donors funding to the health sector is decreasing while the government
spending is increasing since 2001. Donors funding represented 55 percent of the total health
expenditures in 1999 but only 29 percent in 2002 and 27 percent in 2003. In the meantime, IDA is
becoming the major donor representing only 14 of external financing in 1998 against 64 percent in
2003. Donors financing is still characterized by the difficulties to track funds and the use of
separate procedures for financial resources mobilization, accounting and reporting and
procurement.




                                               - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/23/1995                6    TTL AND SR.PUBLIC
                                             HEALTH SPEC. (I); IMPL.
                                             SPEC .(I); PUBLIC HEALTH
                                             SPEC. (I); ECONOMISTS (2);
                                             CONSULTANT (I)
              03/27/1996                1    TTL AND SR. PUBLIC
                                             HEALTH SPEC.
              06/11/1996                3    TTL AND SR. PUBLIC
                                             HEALTH (I); PROCUREMENT
                                             & IMPL. SPEC. (1); SR.
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (I)
              11/30/1996                2    TTL (I) AND IMPL. SPEC. (I)
              01/31/1997                1    TTL AND SR. PUBLIC
                                             HEALTH SPEC. (I)
              05/14/1997                8    TTL (I); SR. PUBLIC HEALTH
                                             SPEC. (I); IMPL. SPEC. (I);
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH
                                             CONSULTANT (I); PLANNING
                                             CONSULTANT (I); PUBLIC
                                             HEALTH CONSULTANT (I);
                                             ARCHITECT (I); SR. PROC.
                                             SPEC. (I)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/22/1997                7    TTL (I); ECONOMISTS (2);
                                             SR. OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (I);
                                             PROCUREMENT OFFICER
                                             (I); SR. FIN.
                                             MANAGEMENT SPEC. (I);
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC. (I)

              02/01/1998                2    TTL & SR. PUBLIC SPEC. (I);
                                             SR. LEGAL COUNSEL (I)
              04/03/1998                5    TTL & SR. PUBLIC HEALTH
                                             SPEC. (I) IMPL. SPEC. (2);
                                             ECONOMISTS (2)

 Supervision
              11/15/1998                2    TTL & PRINCIPAL
                                             HEALTH SPEC. (I);
                                             ECONOMIST (I)
              05/10/1999                3    TTL AND PUBLIC HEALTH             S               S
                                             (1); PROC. AND IMPL. SPEC.
                                             (1); HEALTH ECONOMICS (1)
              11/04/1999                4    PUBLIC HEALTH (1); TEAM           S               S



                                              - 34 -

                                           LEADER (1); REPRODUCTIVE
                                           HEALTH (1);
                                           IMPLEMENTATION (1)
               11/18/2000              3   HEALTH SPECIALIST (1); SR.         S    S
                                           OPERATION OFFICER (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1)
               12/07/2001              5   TEAM LEADER (1); SR.               S    S
                                           OPERATION OFFICER (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                                           SR. FIN. MANAGT. SPEC. (1);
                                           PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC. (1)
               06/15/2002              5   TEAM LEADER (1); SR.               S    S
                                           OPERAT OFFICER (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                                           HUMAN RES. MANAGT. SPE
                                           (1); HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)
               02/02/2003              5   TTL (1); SR. IMPLEMENT.            S    S
                                           SPEC. (1); SR. FINANC MAN.
                                           SPEC (1); PROCUREMENT
                                           SPEC. (1); TTA (1)
               02/14/2004              5   TTL (1); PUBLIC HEALTH             S    S
                                           SPEC. (1); SR.
                                           IMPLEMENTAT. SPEC. (1);
                                           FINANCIAL MANAG.SPEC.
                                           (1); TTA (1)
               05/16/2004              5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR.          S    S
                                           IMPLEMENTATION OF. (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT (1);
                                           DISBURSEMENT ASSISTANT
                                           (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
               10/17/2004              8   TASK TEAM LEADER (I); SR.
                                           IMPLEMENT. SPEC (I); FIN.
                                           MGT. SPEC. (I); ECONOMIST
                                           (I); SOCIAL DEV. SPEC. (I);
                                           PROC. SPEC. (I); DISB. SPEC.
                                           (I); TEAM ASSISTANT (I)

 ICR
               03/15/2005             3     TTL (i); SR. IMPL. SPEC.
                                            (I); PROC. SPEC. (I);



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                          219,011.00
  Supervision                        151.74                      453,914.77
  ICR                                  31.17                      76,457.85
  Total                              182.91                      749,383.52




                                            - 35 -

Data was not available for No. of Staff weeks for Identification/Preparation, Appraisal/Negotiations as
well as for US$ Estimates for Identification/Preparation.




                                                   - 36 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Aide-mémoires (World Bank) for:
       June/July 1995 (identification)
       March 1996 (identification)
       June 1996 (identification)
       November 1996 (preparation)
       February 1997 (preparation)
       June 1997 (pre-appraisal)
       October/November 1997 (appraisal)
       February 1998 (negotiations)
       April 1998 (launch)
       November 1998
       April/May 1999
       October 1999
       June 2000
       November 2000
       May/June 2001
       November/December 2001
       May/June 2002
       January/February 2003
       January/February 2004
       May 2004
       October 2004

Aide-mémoire conjoint. 5ème Revue conjointe du secteur de la santé et des affaires sociales, janvier 2003

Aide-mémoire, Coopération Franco-Mauritanienne dans le secteur de la Santé, avril 2003

Aide-mémoire de la phase 1 pour l'étude d'opérationnalisation et de développement de la CAMEC, mars
2003

Aide-mémoire de la seconde phase pour l'étude d'opérationnalisation et de développement de la CAMEC,
juin 2003

Cadre de Dépenses à Moyen Terme du secteur de la santé 2002-2004

Country Assistance Strategy for the Islamic Republic of Mauritania. May 21, 1997, Report No. 16595

Country Assistance Strategy for the Islamic Republic of Mauritania. May 6, 2002, Report No.
24122-MAU

Development Credit Agreement on the Health Sector Investment Project to the Islamic Republic of
Mauritania. April 30, 1998

Documents de politiques spécifiques : paludisme (1997), santé de la reproduction (1998), transfusion
sanguine (2001), action sociale (2000), VIH/SIDA 2003-2007

Enquête Démographique et de Santé 2000-2001


                                                 - 39 -

Etude sur le système de recouvrement des coûts, D.I.P Network, janvier 2001

Evaluation du Plan Directeur de la Santé (PDS) pour la période 1998-2002 (DP No 03/03/PD). CREDES,
novembre 2004

Financement des Partenaires Extérieurs dans le Secteur de la Secteur de la Santé en Mauritanie pour la
période 1998-2000 (O.Bangoura, septembre 1997)

Focusing Public Expenditures on Growth and Poverty Reduction, Public Expenditures Review, June 25,
2004, PREM4, Africa Region

Joint IDA ­ IMF Staff Assessment of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper Annual Progress Report, June
27, 2003. Report No. 26201-MAU

Joint IDA-IMF Staff Assessment of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper Annual Progress Report, April
29, 2002. Report No. 24071-MAU

Manuel d'Exécution du PASS, 1998, révisé en juin 2000

Manuel de Procédures Administratives et comptables à l'intention des Directions Régionales de la
Protection Sanitaire et Sociale, juillet 2003

Note sur la santé et l'action sociale, 17-19 décembre 2001

Note sur le contrôle de qualité des médicaments essentiels, CAMEC 2003

Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper for the Islamic Republic of Mauritania. December 17-19, 2001

Plan Directeur de la Santé et des Affaires Sociales 1998 - 2002 (MSAS)

Plan de Développement des Infrastructures Sanitaires 1998 - 2002 (MSAS)

Plan Opérationnels Annuels de la Santé (POAS) 1999-2004

Plan Triennal à Horizon Glissant 1998-2000, 1999-2001, 2001-2003

Plan d'Action pour le Renforcement de la Capacité Institutionnelle du MSAS (A.B. Sy, 1997)

Plan de développement des ressources humaines et de la formation (Jean-Pierre Manshande, novembre
1997)

Plan de Renforcement des Capacités Institutionnelles, 1998

Policy Framework Paper 1997-1999 (World Bank, July 1997, SecM97-581

Project Appraisal Document on the Health Sector Investment Project to the Islamic Republic of
Mauritania. February 24, 1998




                                                   - 40 -

Project Status Reports, Archived Versions, Sequences 1-17. World Bank

Public Expenditure Review (World Bank, April 14, Report No. 10973)

Rapport d'exécution et d'achèvement du projet d'appui du secteur de la santé, mars 2005, MSAS/DGI

Revue des Dépenses Publiques de Santé (Gilles DesRochers, septembre 1998)

Revue des Dépenses Publiques de Santé. Recouvrement des Coûts. (Marlène Abrial, mars 1997).

Seconde Revue des Dépenses Publiques (World Bank, octobre 1996)




                                                 - 41 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary Table of Expenses by Component


                   Etat Récapitulatif de l'Exécution du Projet PASS par Composante
                                                                      Montant Exécuté                                 Montant Exécuté
                            Catégories      MntPrévu                      1998                                            1999
                                                         IDA              Etat             Autres          IDA             Etat            Autres

Améliorerle
Couverture
Sanitaire          Etudes RH                            17,103,020                        32,245,185             -                                -
                   Génie Civil                          34,206,041                       142,333,333     463,625,000                     963,103,428
                   Equip/Med                86,4 US $   59,860,571      116,847,000       12,829,000             -                        55,185,776
                   Médicaments                          51,309,061      346,318,536       20,776,000     34,662,000      509,816,741        8,346,460
                   Materiél Peda INSM & ENSP                                                      -                                               -
                   Formation ENSP & INSM                                                          -              -                                -
                   Materiél R/ Maintenance              11,253,856                         4,320,000             -            114000000           -
                   Personnel                                            890,000,000                                      925,000,000

                                                        173,732,550      1,353,165,536     212,503,518    498,287,000     1,548,816,741   1,026,635,664



Améliorerle
Financement et la
performancedu
Secteur de la SantéPlanification                                                          54,474,295             -                           600,005
                                            36,8 US $
                   SNIS                                                                           -                                               -
                   Super, Suivi Evaluation                                                34,464,089                                              -
                   Contractualisation                   41,355,330                                -              -                                -
                   Admini Centrale                      35,494,130      178,221,861      201,288,080     375,916,000     478,381,032     203,217,402
                   Formation                                                                 527,360             -                        15,608,569


                                                         76,849,460       178,221,861      290,753,824    375,916,000      478,381,032     219,425,976




Atteignerleseffets
desprincipaux
problémes de                                54,5 US $
Santé Publique     L C M                                44,473,041      597,843,191      271,589,433             -       313,384,395     375,667,674
                   Ter                                                  364,643,395               -              -       424,697,390              -
                   Sec                                                                   192,890,399             -                                -


                                                         44,473,041       962,486,586      464,479,832            -        738,081,784     375,667,674




Renforcer l'Action
Sociale et Créer un
Environnement
Favorableàla                                 5,3 US $
Santé              Action Sociale                       1,585,550       166,700,000      129,829,393             -        60,000,000
                   IEC                                  6,289,350                          5,685,315             -
                   CDSS
                   Santé Scolaire
                   CNH (Eau, Aliments)                                                                           -
                                                          7,874,900       166,700,000      135,514,708            -         60,000,000              -


                               Total           183     302,929,951     2,660,573,983    1,103,251,882    874,203,000   2,825,279,558    1,621,729,314
                        Cumul par Année                                                 4,066,755,815                                   5,321,211,872

                   Cumul PASS                          1,177,132,951
                                                         23,368,302




                                                                    - 42 -

                                                              Montant Exécuté                                   Montant Exécuté
                      Catégories     MntPrévu                     2000                                              2001
                                                  IDA              Etat            Autres           IDA             Etat            Autres



Améliorerle
Couverture
Sanitaire     Etudes RH                           3,375,546                                -        24,120,000            -         5,062,400
              Génie Civil            86,4 US $                                   1,403,901,605      140910000     17,500,000      175,000,000
              Equip/Med                           73,353,591                      384,517,302          1800000   239,000,000       30,660,000
              Médicaments                        233,783,382     530,419,966       40,000,000       10,000,000   682,000,000       42,202,500
              MateriélPedaINSM&ENSP                                                        -                  0     1,300,000      23,883,000
              FormationENSP&INSM                  1,518,996           10000000             -                  0           -                -
              MateriélR/Maintenance                 675,109                                -           5297000   100,000,000        7,000,000
              Personnel                                         1,063,000,000                                   1,126,980,000

                                                  312,706,623     1,603,419,966    1,828,418,907   182,127,000    2,166,780,000     283,807,900




Améliorerle
Financement
et la
performance
duSecteurde                          36,8 US $
la Santé      Planification                       2,531,660                                -       125,320,000    10,000,000       36,655,904
              SNIS                                                                         -       114,000,000      3,000,000              -
              Super,SuiviEvaluation               1,687,773                          9,951,655                0   25,000,000       12,130,000
              Contractualisation                  4,219,433                                -                  0   51,000,000       40,546,520
              AdminiCentrale                      51,753,902     519,045,424      209,498,237                 0  484,511,100       77,525,000
              Formation                           1,350,218                        32,739,100       27,967,000    10,000,000       20,188,480


                                                   61,542,985      519,045,424      252,188,992    267,287,000      583,511,100     187,045,904




Atteignerles
effetsdes
principaux                           54,5 US $

problémesde
Santé PubliqueLCM                                 4,556,987      701,401,980      206,213,934         18900000   679,000,000      157,759,582
              Ter                                 29,341,436     403,842,040               -          21850000   416,500,000        8,834,000
              Sec                                 60,312,952                               -          12920000            -                -
                                                                                           -

                                                   94,211,376     1,105,244,020     206,213,934     53,670,000    1,095,500,000     166,593,582




Renforcer
l'Action
Socialeet
Créerun
Environnemen
tFavorableà                           5,3US$

laSanté       Action Sociale                        337,555                                                   0  130,330,000       22,500,000
              IEC                                                                                             0           -                -
              CDSS                                                                                            0           -                -
              SantéScolaire                                                                                   0           -                -
              CNH(Eau,Aliments)                                                                               0           -                -

                                                      337,555               -                -             -        130,330,000      22,500,000


                          Total         183      468,798,539    3,227,709,410    2,286,821,833    503,084,000   3,976,121,100     659,947,385
                  CumulparAnnée                                                  5,983,329,781                                   5,139,152,485




                                                              - 43 -

                                                               MontantExécuté                                  MontantExécuté
                         Catégories   MntPrévu                     2002                                            2003
                                                   IDA             Etat           Autres           IDA              Etat            Autres


Améliorerle
Couverture
Sanitaire      EtudesRH                               12637000    72,574,000       3,840,000       7,987,000                   0    1,052,000
               Génie Civil                          669764000       107375000        239,000     142,000,000        388,600,000    10,759,000
               Equip/Med               86,4US$               0        87387000    88,477,000     598,160,000        175,038,000    34,938,000
               Médicaments                            30208000   788,797,950      37,241,000              -         761,956,170   176,837,500

               MateriélPedaINSM&ENSP                   8320000               0     7,100,000         949,000                -              -
               FormationENSP&INSM                     12277000    70,858,000      11,350,000              -          74,000,100            -
               MateriélR/Maintenance                  51197000      362447000     18,063,000      33,657,000        139,791,000     1,291,000
               Personnel                                       1,622,502,000                                      1,842,340,000
                                                 784,403,000   3,111,940,950     166,310,000     782,753,000      3,381,725,270   224,877,500




Améliorerle
Financementet
laperformance
duSecteurde                            36,8US$
laSanté        Planification                          34959000        12350000     7,000,000      44,401,000         13,000,000     4,813,200
               SNIS                                 119980000         8000000      7,705,000      31,614,000          6,000,000     1,650,000
               Super,SuiviEvaluation                   9142000        25000000     4,000,000              -          14,986,000       518,000
               Contractualisation                      7300000        5000000      1,295,000         700,000                -              -
               AdminiCentrale                         23000000      516943300    356,735,705      97,929,000        577,206,015   163,731,650
               Formation                              49926500        25990000    98,253,000      60,790,000         60,000,000    19,088,850


                                                 244,307,500     593,283,300     474,988,705     235,434,000        671,192,015   189,801,700




Atteignerles
effetsdes
principaux                             54,5US$
problémesde
SantéPublique LCM                                     30203750      414980000    319,012,982      90,027,000        803,988,000   306,326,900
               Ter                                    11834000      560486000     56,752,000     159,949,000        590,932,100    28,395,000
               Sec                                     7500000               0            -       40,549,000                -              -
                                                                                                                            -                 0
                                                  49,537,750     975,466,000     375,764,982     290,525,000      1,394,920,100   334,721,900




Renforcer
l'ActionSociale
etCréerun
Environnement
Favorableàla                           5,3US$

Santé          Action Sociale                          8176000      130000000          7000000    13,658,000        130,000,000         7000000
               IEC                                     5032000        17000000         4300000               0       22,218,000         4000000
               CDSS                                          0               0               0               0       13,000,000         3000000
               Santé Scolaire                                0        5400000                0               0              -                 0
               CNH(Eau,Aliments)                             0        14000000               0               0       40,000,000               0
                                                  13,208,000     166,400,000      11,300,000      13,658,000        205,218,000    14,000,000


                           Total         183    1,091,456,250  4,847,090,250    1,028,363,687   1,322,370,000     5,653,055,385   763,401,100

                     CumulparAnnée                                              6,966,910,187                                    7,738,826,485




                                                               - 44 -

                                                                 Montant Exécuté
                        Catégories    MntPrévu                         2004
                                                   IDA              Etat            Autres
Améliorerle
Couverture
Sanitaire      EtudesRH                           80,685,000               -            3,952,627
               Génie Civil                       626,862,929      295,000,000                 -
               Equip/Med              86,4US$             -       110,000,000           5,363,186
               Médicaments                                -       723,500,000        229,781,534
               MateriélPedaINSM&ENSP                      -                -                  -             24,040,545,403

               FormationENSP&INSM                         -       101,000,000                 -     IDA      14,670,456     120,202,727  86.4
               MateriélR/Maintenance               6,000,000      240,000,000                 -
               Personnel                                         1,975,989,000
                                                   713,547,929     3,445,489,000        239,097,347


Améliorerle
Financementet
laperformance
duSecteurdela
Santé          Planification          36,8US$                      58,000,000           8,000,000
               SNIS                                       -                -                  -
               Super,SuiviEvaluation                      -        39,098,000          12,801,788
               Contractualisation                         -       173,000,000                 -              6,931,707,641

               AdminiCentrale                    164,740,950      486,096,000          13,134,220                           34,658,538
               Formation                           3,877,280       21,000,000          52,782,626   IDA        6,084,916                 36.8


                                                   168,618,230      777,194,000          86,718,634




Atteignerles
effetsdes
principaux
problémesde                           54,5US$

SantéPublique LCM                                 58,852,244      868,491,900        180,012,964
               Ter                               217,778,620      661,755,250          11,228,522           10,725,677,060
               Sec                                        -                -                  -     IDA        3,442,758    53,628,385
                                                          -                                   -
                                                   276,630,864     1,530,247,150        191,241,486

                                                          -                                                                              54.5


Renforcer
l'ActionSociale
etCréerun
Environnement
Favorableàla                          5,3US$
Santé          Action Sociale                      3,595,152      163,000,000                 -
               IEC                                        -        15,000,000           4,000,000
               CDSS                                       -        13,000,000                 -              1,161,636,315
               Santé Scolaire                             -                -            2,000,000                            5,808,182
               CNH(Eau,Aliments)                                   14,000,000                 -     IDA         164,569
                                                     3,595,152      205,000,000           6,000,000                                      5.3


                           Total        183     1,162,392,175    5,957,930,150       523,057,467

                    CumulparAnnée                                                   7,643,379,792           42,859,566,418


                                                                                                            214,297,832


                                                                                                    TotalIDA 24,362,699




                                                               - 45 -

- 46 -

