Report No. PID3945
Project Name                  Mauritania-Health Sector Investment Project (@
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Basic Health
Project ID                       MRPE35689
Borrower                         Government of Mauritania
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
Contact: M. Mohamed Mahmoud Ould Dahmane
Minister of Health and Social Affairs
BP 169, Nouakchott
Tel: (222) 25-62-14
Fax: (222) 25-22-68
Date PID prepared                May 14, 1996
Date PID revised                 December 19, 1997
Appraisal Date                   October 26, 1997
Projected Board Date             March 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.      Despite a somewhat higher GNP per capita (US$500) than other
low-income African countries, the social indicators of Mauritania
show many similarities with the poorest sub-Saharan countries, i.e.:
life expectancy at birth is only 48 years, infant mortality is 118
per thousand live births, and an estimated 66t of the population
aged 15 and over is illiterate, (while in women of the same age
group this percentage reaches 79).
2.      In 1995, public health expenditures per capita were only
US$8.54 (less than the minimum of US$9-12--1991 prices--calculated
in the Better Health in Africa study and the 1993 World Development
Report). As a share of total consolidated government budget, public
spending on health is relatively low, but has shown some improvement
during the period 1993 to 1995 (incrreasing from 4t to 7T as a share
of the total budget, and from 3t to 8.0w as a share of the total
investment budget). In the mid-term, public financing would need to
increase substantially to address the overwhelming health needs of
the Mauritanian people.
3.      The country's vast territory (more than one million square
kilometers), out of which three-quarters are desert and only a
narrow strip along the Senegal river sustains sedentary crop
farming, is sparsely populated with 2.3 million inhabitants, which
translate into a population density of about 2 inhabitants per
square kilometer. Mauritania's demographics have three features,
rendered even more important by the narrow human and physical
resource basis of the country: (1) rapid population growth (2.8w per
annum), (2) rapid sedentarization (the nomadic population which in
1965 constituted about 55t of the total population is now reduced to



less than 10%), and (3) rapid urbanization (the urban growth rate of
7.8 is among the highest in the world).
4.      The health status indicators show a strong prevalence of
preventable conditions such as infectious and parasitic diseases
(e.g., malaria, schistosomiasis, dracunculiasis, helminthic
infections, tuberculosis), acute respiratory infections, diarrhea
and measles. While, at present, HIV/AIDS prevalence is still low,
the spread of sexually transmitted diseases is already a matter of
serious concern. Finally, high mortality rates in infants and in
children under five (118 and 182 per 1000 live births respectively),
as well as the important rates of maternal mortality and morbidity
in women at reproductive age--compounded by high fertility (total
fertility rate 6.5), low use of modern contraceptive methods and the
inadequacy of health services--underscore the fact that women and
children should be given top priority.
5.      The nutrition status is poor.   The prevalence rate of
malnutrition in children under five--throughout all income groups--
is 30% (other surveys, conducted by WHO and USAID,    show even more
severe results, e.g., WHO: 36% for moderate malnutrition and 8% for
severe malnutrition), anemia and iodine deficiencies are frequent
and, on an average, 24.4% of babies delivered in health facilities
fall into the low-birth category.
6.      Mauritania's health care delivery system is predominantly
public and placed under the authority of the Ministry of Health and
Social Affairs (MSAS). Nonetheless, it is worth mentioning that
private practice has recently started to grow in the capital city
and that some population groups (such as the military and the
workers of the mining sector) are covered by special services
independent of MSAS. As a result of the sector policy introduced by
GOM in the early 1980s and spelled out in the 1991-1995/6 Plan
Directeur, which promoted the development of primary health care
with emphasis on prevention and decentralization of services and
decision making, public services are presently comprised of a
national hospital at Nouakchott, 12 regional hospitals at wilaya
level, 53 health centers at district level (moughataa), about 210
health posts in communes, and 341 basic health units at the village
level.
7.      Mauritania's specific geographical conditions, compounded by
the lack of resources for the sector mentioned above, make its
health facility network insufficient and not fully accessible to the
population: 25% of the population still have to travel more than 5
kilometers to a health center or health post. Consequently, in
spite of the fact that more than 909 of services are provided by the
public sector, preventive care represents only 20% of the services
it discharges. Moreover, climatic conditions, together with
insufficient means of transportation and communication render
patient referral, maintenance, supervision, and all logistic
activities expensive and difficult to carry out. The public sector
is also being confronted--inter alia--with problems related to the
geographical distribution and quality of human resources, excessive
use of management by vertical programs, and inadequate quality of
- 2 -



services (currently being addressed by an IDA project and envisaged
for the new project.
8.      The sector capacity in nutrition is still weak. The Ministry of
Planning is temporarily coordinating nutrition activities at the
national level (the line ministry to take over this task is yet to
be identified) and, among the donors, the interest in nutrition has
been uneven (UNICEF, by far the most active partner, has provided
competent expert advice, but has not been able to offer commensurate
financial support). A draft nutrition policy document is available
and most of the nutritional problems and strategies to be applied
have been identified. Nevertheless, the sector needs to be
substantially strengthened particularly concerning its human and
financial resources.
9.      A National Population Policy, very different from the
pronatalistic policy pursued by the country not long ago, has been
adopted, and a Population Action Plan is being finalized. However,
the recently approved National Population Board (Commission
Nationale de Population) is still to be set up; in order to start a
successful population program, important IEC activities are needed
to raise the demand for modern contraception in various population
groups; and policies related to the rapid sedentarization and
urbanization have to be worked out.
Project Description
10.     A broad sector investment project is proposed.    Such a project
is based on a new sector policy (Plan Directeur 1998-2002) and
infrastrucuture development plan, prepared by Government in
collaboration with donors and NGOs (called Associations de
Developpement by a January 31, 1996, decree). IDA will operate as a
last resort lender, financing the gap between the cost of the
implementation of the health program during the period 1998 to 2002
and the resources provided by the GOM, beneficiaries, donors and
major NGOs. Annually, sector operational plans and budgets (and a
progress report on the sector performance during the previous year)
will be prepared by Government and submitted for discussion to
donors and NGOs. In this way, IDA's contribution will be adjusted
every year depending upon sector performance, health needs and
availability of resources from other sources.
Project Objectives
11.     The project's general objectives will be to:    (1) support
health sector development in a broad and integrated manner; (2)
assist the Government to develop a rational sector policy, and to
set up sound planning and budgeting practices, and, ultimately,
improve sector performance; (3) strengthen the collaboration among
donors and NGOs, and build an effective donor coordination mechanism
into the MOHSA; and (4) contribute to the improvement of the health
status of the population by the provision of more accessible and
better quality health services.
12.     Regarding the component of the credit to be used for the
-3 -



financing of pre-identified activities, it is envisaged, at this
stage, to focus on: (i) strengthening central management; (ii)
pursuing decentralization; (iii) expanding primary health services
and, in particular, improving quality of care in geographically
remote areas, (iv) fostering private sector development and
identifying new modalities for sector financing; and (v) supporting
selective technical programs, such as family planning and maternal
and child care (Bien-otre familial), infectious diseases
surveillance, STDs/AIDS, and nutrition.
13.     Specific quantified development objectives and indicators to
monitor progress in project implementation (in input, process,
output and outcome areas) have been designed during the project
preparation phase.
Project Financing
14.     The implementation of the sector policy and plans will be
financed by GOM, beneficiaries, and donors. IDA will also
contribute by financing the gap between the sector's needs in
resources (as presented in sector policy and plans) and resources
available (from donors, NGOs, beneficiaries, and GOM), operating on
the basis of the last resort lender. Project preparation is being
supported by a PHRD Grant and a PPF.
15.     It is expected that IDA funding will be, on an average,
relatively small, e.g., about 11   of the total program cost.   Out of
this amount, about 70- will be budget support, while the remainder
will be used for the implementation of pre-identified activities
(during 1998 and 1999) in areas, such as, and very importantly, the
strengthening of sector capacity and decentralization. To a lesser
degree during the project's first two calendar years, the credit
will also support the development of health services in remote
districts of the country and the improvement of technical programs
(maternal and child care, family planning, infectious diseases
surveillance, AIDS/STDs, and nutrition).
Project Implementation
16.     The project will be implemented by the Government through the
various services and directorates of the MOHSA and the sector's
decentralized management units. Due to its emphasis on
decentralization and development of outreach activities, ensuring
the participation of the regional health authorities, communities
and relevant NGOs will be essential. Donors and NGOs have been
consulted and are expected to collaborate by funding activities
geared toward the implementation of the GOM program for the health
sector. In some cases, at GOM request, donors might act as
executing agencies for activities falling into their realm.
Procurement and disbursement procedures for IDA funded activities
will be done in accordance with IBRD procedures of reimbursing.
Project Sustainability
17.     The project will contribute to capacity-building in the sector,
- 4 -



centrally and regionally. Financial sustainability would be further
pursued by expanding cost recovery to secondary care services, and
by the introduction of, where feasible, pre-payment arrangements for
health service provision at community level. The important emphasis
on broad participation of donors and NGOs, and of a large array of
national staff from central and district levels, as well as of
beneficiaries and health providers, will strengthen ownership and
contribute to project sustainability.
Lessons learned from past operations
18.     The current IDA-assisted Health and Population Project (Credit
2311-MAU) has demonstrated GOM's willingness and capacity to
approach complex societal problems (see, for instance, the switch
from the country's former pro-natalistic policy to the present
population policy and action plan, the willingness to prevent the
spread of HIV/AIDS epidemic and reduce STDs, the progress made in
improving the status of women, the success of cost-recovery). It
also helped launch sector institutional reform, and improve sector
financing and management. On the negative side (see also the
paragraph on Project Risks), it cautioned against: (a) over-
reliance on other donors' contributions; (b) complex and overly-
ambitious project goals; and--particularly--(c) overly-optimistic
assumptions concerning the time needed to reach consensus on
politically-, socially- or religiously-sensitive questions. The
integrated sector-wide approach proposed for this project
constitutes a suitable solution to these concerns. As mentioned,
donors will participate, during the project preparation phase, in
the development of the sector's policy and plans, and, later on, in
the annual sector performance review, and planning and budgeting
exercise (when project goals, availability of resources, and sector
performance will be appraised and adjustments made, as necessary).
Poverty Category
19.     The project is sector-wide and addresses the entire population.
However, it aims specifically to provide accessible and quality
health services with emphasis on the rural poor population, women
and children, thereby alleviating and reducing poverty. For this
reason, this operation is part of the Program of Targeted
Interventions.
Environmental aspects
20.     This will be a category C project, without any direct negative
impact on the environment. Moreover, the project would strengthen
sanitation, water and nutrition, and is thus expected to be
beneficial to the environment. Proper attention to be paid to
health facility waste disposal, with the opportunity of civil works.
Women's Impact
21.     The project is expected to specifically target family planning
and maternal and children health activities. More generally, by
supporting preventive and basic health care development with special
- 5-



emphasis on the country's remote geographical areas, the project
will enhance equitable access to health services by women and children.
Participation
22.     The project will be developed by MOHSA in close and transparent
collaboration with donors and NGOs. WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA and FAO have
already formally expressed willingness to participate in specified
components. Donors have also agreed with the rationale for a
sector-wide investment operation. The project will help develop
peripheral health facilities, and contribute to the decentralization
of decision-making, bringing the decision closer to beneficiaries.
It will also involve beneficiaries in the management of health
facilities and empower local authorities, communities and households
to participate in decision-making. It is planned that systematic
beneficiary assessments and consultation, followed by feedback, will
be carried out during the preparation phase and project
implementation. By its activities in the area of health care
financing, the project will gradually test and develop, at community
level, pre-payment arrangements (mutuelles) and solidarity
mechanisms to protect the poor. Lastly, the project, by its
contribution to the private sector, also foresees the development of
mutually beneficial and complementary relations between the public
and the private sector.
Contact Point:           The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-3245
Fax No.: (202) 473-8216
Note:   This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 9, 1998.
- 6-



