Page  1
CONFORMED COPY   
CREDIT NUMBER 3055 MAU
Development Credit Agreement
(Health Sector Investment Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 30, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3055 MAU 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 30, 1998, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association):
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received from the Borrower a letter, dated October 
20, 1997 (the Plan Directeur 1998-2002), and a second letter (the letter of Sectoral 
Policy), dated December 15, 1997, describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to strengthen the health sector (hereinafter collectively referred 
to as “the Program”), and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the 
Program;
(C)
the Borrower intends to obtain from various Donors (as hereinafter 
defined) grants and loans to assist in financing the Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If: (a) the right of 
the Borrower  to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of 
the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit Account, the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals 
with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount 
of the Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Beneficiary" means an individual for whom health care is being, or has 
been, provided in the territory of the Borrower, and “Beneficiaries” mean several such 
individuals; 
(b)
"Budget" means the budget for thehealth Sector (as hereinafter defined) 
in a particular Fiscal Year (as hereinafter defined) which has been approved by the 
Borrower’s Parliament; 
(c)
"DAAF" means Direction des Affaires Administratives et Financières, the 
Directorate of Administrative and Financial Affairs in MSAS (as hereinafter defined); 
(d)
“DAS” means Direction d’Action Sociale, the Directorate of Social 
Page  3
Activities in MSAS (as hereinafter defined); 
(e)
"DGI" means Direction de Gestion des Investissements, the Directorate for 
investment management in MSAS, (as hereinafter defined); 
(f)
"District" means an administrative area in the territory of the Borrower 
known as Wilaya, and “Districts” mean several such Wilayas; 
(g)
"Donors" mean, collectively, national or multilateral agencies 
contributing resourcesfunds to, or technical assistance for, the Program, and "Donor" 
means each donor individually;
(h)
“DRASS” means Direction Régionale de l’Action Sanitaire et Sociale, the 
Directorate in charge of decentralized health activities in MSAS (as hereinafter 
defined); 
(i)
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the twelve-month period beginning January 1 
and ending December 31 of each year according to the Gregorian calendar; 
(j)
"MSAS" means Ministère de la Santé et des Affaires Sociales, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Health and Social Affairs; 
(k)
"NGO" means a a  non-governmental organization established and operating 
in the territory of the Borrower; 
(l)
"ONS" means Office Nationale de la Statistique, the Borrower’s National 
Office for Statistics; 
(m)
"Ouguiya" and "UM" means the currency of the Borrower; 
(n)
"PDIS" means Plan de Développement des Infrastructures de Santé, the 
Borrower’s plan for the construction or rehabilitation, as the case may be, of 
infrastructure works in theits health sSector (as hereinafter defined); 
(o)
"POAS" means Plan Operationnel Annuel pour le Secteur de la Santé, the 
Borrower’s approved annual operational plan for the health Sector (as hereinafter 
defined), setting forth the activities for carrying out the Program in a specific 
Fiscal Year, consistent with the PTHG (as hereinafter defined) and the PDIS, 
including, inter alia, a detailed financing plan setting forth separately the 
contributions to be made respectively by Donors, Beneficiaries and from the Budget;
(p)
"PRCI" means Plan de Renforcement de la Capacité Institutionnelle, the 
Borrower’s development plan for the Sector, (as hereinafter defined); strengthening 
the institutional capacity of all administrative entities active in the Borrower’s 
health sector; 
(q)
"Program Implementation Manual" or "PIM" means the Manuel d’Exécution du 
Programme, a manual containing, inter alia, the monitoring and performance indicators 
referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, guidelines and procedures 
for carrying out the Program, and such term includes any schedules and amendments to 
the PIM; 
(r)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
October 9, 1997 and October 28, 1997, respectively; 
(s)
"PTHG", means Plan Triennal à Horizon Glissant, the Borrower’s three year 
rolling health plan for the Sector (as hereinafter defined); 
(t)
“Sector” means the Borrower’s sector of health and social activities 
(secteur de la santé et de l’action sociale);
(u)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(v)
"Subprogram" means the activities carried out or to be carried out within 
a specific Fiscal Year, consistent with the Program financed, or to be financed, out 
Page  4
of the proceeds of the Credit; 
(w)
"UNFPA" means the United Nations Fund for Populations Activities; 
(x)
"UNIPAC" means the United Nations Children’s Fund Procurement and 
Assembly Center; and 
(y)
"WHO" means the World Health Organization.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventeen million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 17,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars, a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to the Association the amount 
required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn 
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Page  5
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15, commencing June 15, 2008 and ending December 15, 2037. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2017 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01.(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and public health practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Plan set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
(a)
open an account in Ouguiya in a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Association, (the Project Account) and thereafter maintain said Project Account under 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association until the completion of the 
Project;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account: (i) an initial amount of UM 15,000,000 
and (ii) thereafter, replenish the Project Account by the amounts required to finance 
the Borrower’s share of expenditures agreed between the Borrower and the Association 
with respect to Subprograms;
Page  6
(c)
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance with 
paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance the Borrower’s 
contribution for expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the 
proceeds of the Credit, or grants and loans made available by Donors.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the carrying out of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Program; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of 
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project 
or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such FY, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the FY in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
Page  7
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure furnished during such FY, 
together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support 
the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Program shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement 
providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Program are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02
Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b) (ii) of that section.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and has deposited therein the 
initial amount referred to in Section 3.02 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower has approved the PRCI, in substance satisfactory to the 
Association;
(c)
the PIM has been duly approved by the Association and adopted by the 
Borrower;
(d)
the Borrower has appointed the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) 
of this Agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association and in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(e)
the Borrower has appointed the personnel, satisfactory to the 
Association, referred to in paragraph 6 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraph, and has appointed the directors, 
satisfactory to the Association, referred to in paragraph 7 (a) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
Page  8
(f)
the computerized accounting system for the Project and the Program 
referred to in paragraph 6 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement has been installed in 
DGI and DAAF; and
(g)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association copy of prepared bidding 
documents, satisfactory to the Association, for works and goods to be procured in FY 
1998 and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for planning 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre du Plan
Ministère du Plan
BP 238
Nouakchott, Mauritania
Cable address: 
Telex:
MP
540 MTN
Nouakchott
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, DC
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
By /s/ Ahmed Ould Sid’Ahmed
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  9
By /s/ Hasan Tuluy 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   1,300,000
100%
(2)
Goods (including
   1,600,000
100%
drugs)
(3)
Consultants' services
   1,100,000
100%
and training
(4)
Incremental operating
     450,000
90%
costs
(5)
Refunding of the
     350,000
Amount due pursuant to
Project Preparation
Section 2.02 (c) of this
Advance
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
  13,000,000
TOTAL
  17,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "incremental operating costs" means 
the incremental expenses incurred on account of Program Project implementation, 
management and monitoring, including office supplies, operation and maintenance of 
vehicles and equipment, Project travel and supervision, and salaries for local 
contractual staff, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil and 
public service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement;
(b)
in respect of payments made for expenditures under a Subprogram, unless 
(i) such Subprogram has been approved by the Association in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the case may be, and 
(ii) the Borrower has furnished to the Association documents, satisfactory to the 
Association, consisting of the following: (A) the draft Budget submitted to its 
Parliament for the Fiscal Year corresponding to the Subprogram referred to in this 
subparagraph (b); and (B)
a report and respective records indicating evidence that 
expenditures incurred under the Subprogram for the first nine months prior to the 
beginning of the FY referred to in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph were made in 
compliance with the objectives of the respective POAS; and
(c)
payments made for expenditures for civil works, goods and services 
supplied under a contract which any Donor, other than the Association, or NGO shall 
have financed or shall have agreed to finance.
4.
It is understood that the percentages of expenditures to be financed under 
Category (2) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule have been 
Page  10
calculated on the basis of the provisions in the law No. 97-008 of January 21, 1997, 
Ordonnance No 80-323 of December 10, 1980, of the laws of the Borrower, which provides 
for a credit of taxes and customs duties levied in the territory of the Borrower on 
works, goods and services supplied locally and exempt the goods and works financed out 
of the proceeds of credits or grants from the international communitycustoms.  If any 
change is made to said law Ordonnance which has the effect of levying taxes or customs 
duties on such works, goods and services, the percentages referred to above shall be 
decreased in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions.
5.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures made for: (a) civil works and 
goods not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, (b) for consulting firms under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent and for individual consultants’ services under contracts 
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the health 
of its population, through implementation of Subprograms under the Program to provide 
accessible and affordable quality health services, and strengthening of the 
administration of the health Sector, in coordination with Donors, NGOs and the private 
sector.
Subject to such modifications as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve the Projects’ objective, the Project consists of the 
following Parts, carried out within Subprograms through:
(i)
civil works for Part A.1;
(ii)
consultant’s services and training for selected staff of MSAS for 
Parts A.1, 
A.2, B.1, D.1, D.3 and D.4; for selected staff of the 
Districts for Parts B, C 
and D, and health care providers for Parts 
B.3, C.1 and C.3;
(iii)
the acquisition of goods for Parts A.1, A.2, B.1, B.2, C.1 and 
C.3; and 
(iv)
the acquisition of vaccines and contraceptives for Parts A.1, B.2, 
B.3 and C.
Part A:: 
Improving access to, and the quality of, health services, through:
1.
Upgrading and expanding primary health facilities and strengthening secondary 
and tertiary health service delivery to support primary health care. , through the 
carrying out of civil works, provision of technical advisory services and training, 
and acquisition of drugs and equipment.
2.
Provision of adequate maintenance and repair services.
Part B: 
Increasing financial resources for the Sector and improving Sector 
performance through:
1.
(a)
trengthening administrative management capacity of MSAS and the Districts 
to plan, prepare, manage, supervise and coordinate monitor the implementation of: (i) 
the POAS, and (ii) national norms and standards to be applied in the provision of 
health services., through the provision of technical advisory services and training 
for selected staff in MSAS and the acquisition of equipment;
(b)
strengthening the human resource management capacity in MSAS through the 
provision of technical advisory services and training for selected staff in MSAS; and 
2.
Strengthening Beneficiary’s participation in health service delivery decisions 
and cost recovery.
Page  11
3.
Strengthening the provision of traditional health services and private sector 
investment in the Sector.
Part C:
Reducing the effects of major public health problems through:
Improving individual health care through:
1.
Reducing maternal, infant and child mortality in the territory of the Borrower. 
, through the provision of technical advisory services and training for selected 
health care providers and the acquisition of drugs, contraceptives, and medical 
equipment for the use of health care providers in the Districts.
2.
Improving the nutritional health status awareness of the population in the 
territory of the Borrower.
3.
Reducing morbidity, and the severity of infectious and non-communicable 
diseases, through the provision of technical advisory services and training to health 
care providers, and the acquisition of drugs, vaccines, and  equipment.
Part D:
Strengthening social activities and developing an environment fostering 
health through:
1.
Planning and implementing a social action policy, and strengthening DAS and the 
entities furnishing social services in the Districts.
2.
Carrying out of a health and demographic survey in the territory of the 
Borrower.
3.
Carrying out of a population census.
4.
Strengthening the information system in the Sector and the Borrower’s health 
education capacities. Improving the delivery of social services to the population in 
the territory of the Borrower, through the provision of technical advisory services 
and training to selected staff in MSAS and selected administrative entities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $100,000 and $300,000 equivalent or more each respectively.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic Contractors
Page  12
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods (drugs, vaccines and contraceptives) estimated to cost less more than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount of$200,000 $1,000,000 may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 
of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to 
an aggregate amount of $220,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount of $70,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount of $90,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vaccines, drugs and supplies costing less than $100,000 per contract and 
equivalent to $100,000 or less on the aggregate, may be procured from UNIPAC or WHO, 
and contraceptives may be procured from UNFPA, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
6.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature, spare parts and drugs costing less than 
$5,000 equivalent per contract and $50,000 or less in the aggregate, may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
7.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $650,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, were applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Page  13
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for each Subprogram shall be furnished to the Association for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for small contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of consultant’s 
qualifications in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least Cost Selection
Services for audits and civil works, design and supervision estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of least cost selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for civil works contract management for the health and demographic 
survey, referred to in Part D.2 of the Project, to be carried out through ONS, and for 
the population census referred to in Part D.3 of the Project, to be carried out 
through UNFPA, may be procured, with the Association’s prior agreement, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultants’ Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Page  14
Services for tasks meeting the requirements of Section V of the consultant 
Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
5.
Service Delivery Contracts
Services to be provided by medical personnel referred to under paragraph C. 1. 
and 3. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement shall be procured in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under each Subprogram shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraphs 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph 
of paragraphs 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Plan
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Program through MSAS, which will oversee Sector 
policy reform, coordinate Sector activities and Program funding with other 
administrative entities, Donors, and NGOs and Beneficiaries, in accordance with 
procedures set forth in PIM and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision of said PIM if, in the opinion of the 
Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Program.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with monitoring and performance indicators 
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Program 
and the Subprograms; and
(b)
furnish to the Association, for its review and comments:
(i)
not later than January October 31 of each year, commencing on 
January October 
31, 1999, or such later date as the Association may 
agree, until the 
completion of the Project, the draft Budget 
Page  15
for the next Fiscal Yearit intends 
to submit to its Parliament;
(ii)
not later than October 31 of each year, commencing on October 31, 
1998, or 
such later date as the Association may agree, until 
the completion of the 
Project, an annual report setting forth, 
inter alia: (A) a summary of the 
result of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of 
this Section, and (B) progress achieved in the carrying out 
of the 
Program, and (C) activities recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the following  Fiscal Year; and 
(iii)
not later than October 31 of each year, commencing on October 31, 
1998, or 
such later date as the Association may agree, until 
the completion of the 
Project, the following documentation 
pertaining to the next FY: (A) a draft 
POAS, (B) an updated version of 
the PTHG, taking including the POAS for the 
first year of the 
respective three year period of said PTHG into 
consideration, (C) the draft Budget, (D) the draft PRCI and (E) proposals for 
the Subprogram consistent with the respective POAS; and
(c)
furnish to the Association for its review and approval, not later than 
November 31 of each year, commencing November 30, 1998, or such later date as the 
Association may agree, until the completion of the Project, proposals for the 
Subprogram consistent with the respective POAS, and the draft PRCI for the following 
FY.
3.
(a)
By November October 1 30 of each year, commencing October 31, in November 
1998 or such later date as the Association may agree, until the completion of the 
Project, the Borrower and the Association shall carry out an annual review joint 
annual review of the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Annual Review); such 
Annual Review shall cover the progress achieved in the execution of the Project and 
the Program, and, inter alia: (i) review the information furnished in accordance with 
paragraph 2 (b) of this Schedule, and (ii) approve the POAS, the Subprogram and the 
PRCI to be carried out during the following FY.
(b)
Following such Annual Review the Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be 
carried out, such POAS, PRCI and Subprogram in accordance with modalities and 
procedures approved by the Association and in accordance with the PIM, and not make 
any material change to the approved Subprogram without the prior approval of the 
Association.
4.
(a)
Not later than 36 months after the Effective Date or such other date as 
the Borrower and the Association shall agree upon, the Borrower and the Association 
shall carry out a mid-term review (hereinafter referred to as the Mid-Term Review). 
[The Borrower shall take all action iton its part  considers necessary to ensure the 
participation of Donors, NGOs, representatives of the Districts, and Beneficiaries 
private health sector operators in such Mid-Term Review.] \02  Such Mid-Term Review 
shall cover the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project and the 
Program.
(b)
Not later than one month prior to the Mid-Term Review, the Borrower shall 
furnish to [the Donors and] including the Association, for their review and comments, 
a report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
implementation of the Project and the Program.
(c)
Following such Mid-Term Review, the Borrower shall act promptly and 
diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary by the Donors or 
the Association to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project 
and the Program, as the case may be, or to implement such other measures as may have 
been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association in furtherance of the 
objectives of the Project and the Program.
5.
The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a)
District health management teams are established in each District with 
the responsibility toThe District  heal: (i) provide ensure that health services at 
Page  16
community level  are consistent with the Program; PIM, (ii) prepare annual plans and 
annual budgets for their respective Districts with the participation of Beneficiaries; 
and (iii) furnish said plans and budgets to MSAS, to enable their consideration ensure 
the incorporation of said plans and said budgets in PTHG and POAS;
(b)
DRASS regional health teams provide supervision and logistical support to 
the Districts and organize referral care;
(c)
providers of traditional health medical care, NGOs and the private sector 
participate in the provision of preventive and curative health care services; and
(d)
Beneficiary cost recovery sharingprograms, satisfactory to the 
Association, are developed and implemented.
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
appoint, and one accountant at DAAF, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, a senior accountant, and an accountant and 
a procurement officer at DGI, in charge of, respectively, for the 
maintenancemaintaining of records and accounts to reflect resources and expenditures 
in respect of the Project and the preparation and monitoring of procurement 
activities, and appoint, and one accountant at DAAF, in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, one accountant at DAAF in charge of the 
maintenancemaintaining of records and accounts to reflect resources and expenditures 
in respect of the Project;
(b)
install, or cause to be installed at DGI and DAAF, a computerized 
accounting system for the Project and the Program, acceptable to the Association; and 
(c)
at all times maintain said accounting system in accordance with sound 
accounting practices and ensure that the accounting positions referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this paragraph 6 are kept filled at all times, until the completion of the 
Project, by suitably qualified and experienced personnel, acceptable to the 
Association.
7.
The Borrower shall: appoint and maintain, until the completion of the Project, 
suitably qualified and experienced staff, to the satisfaction of the Association, in 
all positions set forth in the PRCI approved in the respective Annual Review.
8.
(a)  Not later than October 31, 1998, the Borrower shall carry out, or cause to 
be carried out,  in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Association, 
the study referred to in C. 1. (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, furnish the 
completed study to the Association for  its review and comment, and, on the basis of 
such comments, prepare, for discussion at the following Annual Review, recommendations 
how to proceed;
(b)
appoint the director of the “Direction de la Planification, de la 
Coopération et de la Statistique” in MSAS, the directors of DAAF and DGI, with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association and maintain, until the 
completion of the Project, qualified and experienced personnel, satisfactory to the 
Association, in said positions; and
(c)    ensure the implementation of PRCI satisfactory to the Association.
8.
(a)
Not later than October 31, 1999, the Borrower shall prepare or cause to 
be prepared a strategy for the maintenance and repair of equipment and infrastructure 
of the Sector, and shall ensure the carrying out of such strategy through its own 
services and those of the private sector;
(b)
not later than December 31, 2000, the Borrower shall carry out  through 
UNFPA,  in accordance with terms of contract acceptable to the Association, the census 
referred to in Part D. 3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and furnish the results of 
said census to the Association for information;
(c)
not later than October 31, 2001, the Borrower shall carry out, through 
ONS, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Association, the survey 
referred to in Part D. 2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and shall furnish to the 
Page  17
Association the completed survey, for its review and comments and, on the basis of 
such comments, prepare, for discussion at the next annual review referred to in 
Paragraph 3 of this Schedule, its recommendations on how to proceed; and
(d)
not later than June 30, 2002, the Borrower shall conduct or cause to be 
conducted, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, an evaluation of 
the impact of the Program on the delivery of health services and the health status of 
the population and shall furnish the report of said evaluation to the Association, for 
its review and comments.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $ 1,300,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of $ 650,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of SDR 2,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
Page  18
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
