RESTRICTED
Report No.   P - 5 4 3
This report wa; prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF T HE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL
Nfay 8, 1967



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECO11HENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ISRAEL LIMITED
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Industrial Development Bank of Israel Limited (IDBI) in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to $15 million to be guaranteed
by the State of Israel.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.         The proposed loan would be the second to IDBI.  The first loan,
equivalent to $20 million, was signed in September 1965 and has been almost
wholly committed. On the basis of the findings of missions in June 1966 -
and December 1966, it appeared that IDBI's performance and prospects justi-
fied further Bank assistance. Negotiations with representatives of the
Government of Israel and the IDBI were held in March 1967. The Israeli
negotiators were Dr. A. Neaman, Managing Director of IDBI, and Mr. M.
Rottenberg, Legal Adviser, for the Borrower, and Mr. N. Shamnir and Mr. S.
Sitton of the Embassy of Israel, Washington, D. C., for the Guarantor.
3.         The proposed loan would increase total Bank lending to Israel
to $109.5 million. The status of previous loans on March 31, 1967 was
as follows:
Year                                                       U6   N' Edon
of      Loan       Borrower               Purpose      Amount
Loan      No.                                           of Loan   Undisbursed
1960     265IS      State of Israel       Ashdod Port   27.5         0.1
1961     289IS      Dead Sea Works Ltd.   Potash        25.o           0
1962     323IS      State of Israel       Roads         22.0         0.7
1965     424IS      IDBI                  Industrial    20.0         4c7
Credit
Total                                                   94.5         5.5
of which has been repaid                               2.9
Total now outstanding                                   91.6
Amount sold                   5.1
of which has been repaid    2.8                        2.3
Net amount held by Bank                            89.3



-2-
The Closing Date for Loan No. 323IS (Road Project) has been postponed from
December 31, 1966 to May 31, 1967, at which time the loan is expected to
be fully disbursed. IFC has not made any investment in Israel.
4.        The Dead Sea Works Limited received a loan of the equivalent of
$25 million in 1961 (Loan No. 289 IS) to help finance the construction of
a plant for the production of potash and other salts. The potash plant
is now in full operation. The Company was planning to expand operations
and in 1965 asked the Bank for a loan for this purpose. Meanwhile, how-
ever, difficulties arose in coring the system of dykes, and consideration
of the loan was postponed. The Bank was recently informed that the
Company is making arrangements with the Government and the Bank of Israel
for financing of the expansion.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF TIC PROPOSED LOAN
5e      BORROIWER:                  Industrial Development Bank of Israel
Limited (IDBI).
GUARANTOR:                  State of Israel.
A1MOUNT:                    The equivalent in various currencies
of $15 million.
PURPOSE:                    To assist IDBI in financing private
industrial enterprises in Israel.
TERM AND AMORTIZATION:      152 years, with semiannual payments
beginning on September 1, 1970 and
ending on September 1, 1982. The Bank
and IDBI will from time to time change
the amortization schedule to conform
substantially to the aggregate of the
agreed repayment schedules applicable
to IDBI's loans and investments using
proceeds of the Loan.
INTEREST RATE:              Variable:  When a part of the Loan is
credited to the Loan Account, the rate
of interest charged on that part will be
the Bank's current rate for similar
loans at the time the credit is made.
COMM1ITMENT CHARGE:         3/8 of 1% per annum, accruing from the
time the Loan Account is credited with
parts of the Loan for individual invest-
ment projects.



-2-
The Closing Date for Loan No. 323IS (Road Project) has been postponed from
December 31, 1966 to May 31, 1967, at which time the loan is expected to
be fully disbursed. IFC has not made any investment in Israel.
4.        The Dead Sea Works Limited received a loan of the equivalent of
$25 million in 1961 (Loan No. 289 IS) to help finance the construction of
a plant for the production of potash and other salts. The potash plant
is now in full operation. The Company was planning to expand operations
and in 1965 asked the Bank for a loan for this purpose. Meanwhile, how-
ever, difficulties arose in coring the system of dykes, and consideration
of the loan was postponed. The Bank was recently informed that the
Company is making arrangements with the Government and the Bank of Israel
for financing of the expansion.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
5.      BORROWER:                   Industrial Development Bank of Israel
Limited (IDBI).
GUARANTOR:                  State of Israel.
AMOUNT:                     The equivalent in various currencies
of $15 million.
PURPOSE:                    To assist IDBI in financing private
industrial enterprises in Israel.
TERM AND AMORTIZATION:      151 years, with semiannual payments
beginning on September 1, 1970 and
ending cn September 1, 1982. The Bank
and IDBI will from time to time change
the amortization schedule to conform
substantially to the aggregate of the
agreed repayment schedules applicable
to IDBI's loans and investments using
proceeds of the Loan.
INTEREST RATE:              Variable:  When a part of the Loan is
credited to the Loan Account, the rate
of interest charged on that part will be
the Bank's current rate for similar
loans at the time the credit is made.
COMMITMENT CHARGE:          3/8 of 1% per annum, accruing from the
time the Loan Account is credited with
parts of the Loan for individual invest-
ment projects.



PART III - THE PROJECT
6.    A detailed appraisal of the project (Report No. DB--33a, dated
April 6, 1967) is attached.
7.    The Industrial Development Bank of Israel Limited (IDBI) is Israells
largest industrial finance company.  Since its establishment in 1957, it has
financed between 20% and 25% of the countryls gross industrial investment.
At December 31, 1966, IDBI's principal sources of funds were as follows:
Equivalent in
If,            U.S.$
(million)
Share capital:
Voting                15               5
Nonvoting            324             108
Reserves and surplus        23               7
Long term loans            225              75
587             195
The ownership of IDBI's voting shares is representative of all major economic
interests in Israel; the Government owns about 26% and private domestic in-
vestors, 54%. Foreign investors hold about 20%. The Government has provided
about 60% of the non-voting share capital and has partially guaranteed over
L0% of the outstanding loan portfolio. It has minority representation on
IDBI's Board and principal committees. The Government considers IDBI to
be the major vehicle for industrial development throughout the country.
However, IDBI is independent in its day-to-day operations and deals with
loan applications on their individual merit.
8.    IDBI is soundly managed and is conservative with regard to the risks
it is willing to assume. Management functions, though guided by a Board of
Directors of 56 members, are largely in the hands of three policy committees
and the Managing Director. Competence of the professional staff is generally
high. The staff's ability to appraise projects has been developed, reducing
IDBI's former dependence on assessments made by the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry.
9.    IDBI has approved a total of almost I£770 (about $257) million in
loans since its inception. Loans have averaged just over I4Ldt0,000
($1477,000) for terms varying from four to twenty years, with the average size
increasing in recent years. About half of IDBI's total loans have been ex-
tended for projects in less developed areas of the country. Many of these
loans carry Government guarantees and subsidies in the form of reduced interest



rates to the borrower. The textile and leather industries have received a
third of IDBI's loans. Although losses have been insignificant, the number
of loans in arrears or undergoing legal proceedings increased during 1966,
reflecting a general recession in Israel. Nearly all of these, however,
carried Government guarantees, which protect IDBI from any significant
financial risk.
10.   Although before 1962 most of IDBI's loans were linked to the U.S.
dollar or to the cost-of-living index and bore interest at a rate of 8%,
current loans are unlinked, and the normal interest rate on IDBI's loans
is slightly below the 12% maximum permitted by law. A part of the interest
received is paid to the Government as consideration for the Government's
insuring most of IDBI's foreign exchange liabilities against devaluation.
The average yield from loans and investments is presently 8 3%, while the
overall cost of resources is about 6.4%. Pretax income amounts to about
10% of average net worth. Since 1958, some 80% of after-tax income has
been distributed as dividends. As a result, reserves are less than 8% of
portfolio, but risks are diminished by the Government guarantees and other
security obtained for loans.
11.   Equity investments, including shares in a subsidiary investment
company, account for only 6% of IDBI's total portfolio and are not expected
to increase very much. About half of these investments are in manufactur-
ing companies, with the other half in investment companies engaged in chan-
neling funds to small and medium-size enterprises. The subsidiary company
has not made much progress since its establishment in 1962 and is expected
to remain dormant for the next few years. At present, IDBI does not plan
to make equity investments, except in connection with financial reorganiza-
tions of companies in which it has an existing interest, and also intends
to simplify the subsidiary's portfolio.
12.   IDBI is expected to maintain its share of total industrial invest-
ment in Israel over the next few years. During the next two years, its
lending is estimated at I£215-220 ($71-73) million, and funds required, in
addition to those to be obtained from existing or expected sources, are
estimated to be about I£75 million ($25 million). The proposed Bank loan
of $15 million would supply about 27% of the net new capital (about $55
million) required to meet projected loan demand during the two-year period.
13.   The Bank's loan would be restricted to foreign currency expendi-
tures, in contrast to the first IDBI loan, which was available for both
foreign and local currency purchases. IDBI will have to submit to the Bank
for prior approval any sub-loan (i) for which IDBI intends to use I£1e5
million or more of funds from the Bank loan and (ii) where the total sub-
loan to be made by IDBI for a project is I£2.5 million or more irrespective
of the amount of funds contributed from the Bank loan. In addition, until
the Bank agrees otherwise, IDBI will submit for Bank approval all projects,
regardless of size, for which IDBI expects to receive a Government guarantee.



- 5 -
PART IV - THE ECONOMY
14.       A report entitled "tCurrent Economic Position and Prospects of
Israel" dated May 1, 1967 (EA 167c) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 3, 1967. The report discusses in detail recent develop-
ments in the Israeli economy and concludes that Israel is creditworthy for
the amount of the proposed Bank loan.
15.       A large capital inflow, in the fcrm of transfers, direct invest-
ments and foreign loans, has contributed for the past many years to the
spectacular growth of the economy. However, inflationary pressures have
accompanied this growth and have endangered the competitive position of
several Israeli industries vis a vis foreign producers. Due to the limited
size of the domestic market, futuiregrowth of the Israeli economy will have
to rely to a considerable extent on the expansion of exports. Therefore,
to enhance Israel's competitiveness in foreign markets, it is expected that
future economic policies will pursue development targets which are more
selective than in the past and encourage greater efforts in, and the flow
of larger resources to, export oriented sectors.
16.       While it is to be expected that the Israeli authorities will do
whatever is practicable to encourage savings and keep the deficit on
external account within limits, it is clear that the continued expansion
of the economy, in export industries and elsewhere, will requi:e a contin-
ued inflow of capital. Prospects for this inflow over the next year or
two are good, and at the present time no further Bank lending to Israel is
contemplated. The outlook may, however, change and the Bank will wish to
review from time to time the economic situation and prospects of the country.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
17.       The draft Loan Agreement (Second Industrial Finance ProJect)
between the Bank and the Industrial Development Bank of Israel Limited
and the draft Guarantee Agreement (Second Industrial Finance Project)
between the State of Israel and the Bank have been distributed separately.
The agreements generally follow the pattern of those for the Bank's recent
loans to development finance companies, and the security provisions are
similar to those in the Loan Agreement for Loan No. 424 IS.
18.       Also being distributed separately is the report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii), of the Articles of Agreement
of the Bank.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
19.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the require-
ments of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



-6-
PART VII - RECOITENDATION
20.     I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Industrial Development Bank
of Israel Limited in an amount equivalent to U.S.
$15,000,000 to be guaranteed by State of Israel.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Industrial Development
Bank of Israel Limited, to be guaranteed by State of Israel,
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen
million United States dollars (U.S. $15,000,000), to mature
on and prior to the date or dates to be determined as set
forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Second Industrial
Finance Project) between the Bank and Industrial Development-
Bank of Israel Limited which has been presented to this meet-
ing, to bear interest at the rate or rates of interest to be
determined as set forth therein, and to be upon such other
terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance
trith the terms and conditions set forth in said form of Loan
Agreement and in the form of Guarantee Agreement (Second
Industrial Finance Project) between State of Israel and the
Bank, which have been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
By
S. R. Cope
Attachment
Washington, D. C.
May 8, 1967



