Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21137-NI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR58,800,000
(US$75,000,000 EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR THE
THIRD ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
PROJECT
December 18, 2000
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 1, 2000)
Currency Unit = Cordoba C$
C$1.00 = US$0.08
US$1.00 = C$12.4
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT                           Average Daily Traffic
CAS                           Country Assistance Strategy
COERCO                        Corporaci6n de Empresas Regionates de Construcci6n
Regional Road Maintenance Agencies
DANIDA                        Danish International Development Agency
ERR                           Economic Rate of Return
FARAH                         Financial Accounting, Reporting & Auditing Handbook
GDP                           Gross Domestic Product
GON                           Government of Nicaragua
HDM                           Highway Design and Maintenance Model
ICR                           Implementation Completion Report
LACI                          Loan Administration Change Initiative
LSMS                          Living Standards Measurement System
IDA                           International Development Association
IDB                           Inter-American Development Bank
IRI                           Intemational Road Roughness Index
MCT                           Ministry of Construction and Transport
MTI                           Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure
MOF                           Ministry of Finance
NPV                           Net Present Value
PCU                           Project Coordination Unit
PMR                           Project Management Reports
PMRM                          Programa de Mantenimiento Rutinario por Microempresas
Routine Maintenance Program
PPMM                          Proyecto Piloto de Microempresas de Mantenimiento
Microenterprises Pilot Project
PMS                           Pavement Management System
RED                           Road Economic Decision Model
REMECAR                       Rehabilitaciony Mejoramiento de Caminos Rurales
Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Improvement Program
RMF                           Road Maintenance Fund
TA                            Technical Assistance
TST                           Technical Support Team
UNDP                          United Nations Development Program
VOC                           Vehicle Operating Costs
VPD                           Vehicles per Day
Vice President:         David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:              Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:             Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Emmanuel A. James



NICARAGUA
THIRD ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        8
3. Benefits and target population                                                       9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                            9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         11
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            12
2. Financial                                                                           12
3. Technical                                                                           12
4. Institutional                                                                       12
5. Environmental                                                                       13
6. Social                                                                              14
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  14
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      15
2. Critical risks                                                                      15
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      16



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           16
2. Other                                                                             16
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        16
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         18
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   21
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        26
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  27
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              39
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      40
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    47
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  48
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 49
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           51
Annex I l: Environmental and Social Analysis                                            53
MAP(S)
IBRD 31207



NICARAGUA
Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSFT
Date: December 18, 2000                           Team Leader: Emmanuel A. James
Country Manager/Director: D. M Dowsett-Coirolo    Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipziger
Project ID: P068673                               Sector(s): TH - Highways, TR - Rural Roads
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ I Loan    [XI Credit    [ I Grant    [ I Guarantee      I Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $75.0
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Standard (0-0.5%,
as set by the Executive Directors)
Financing Plan:    Source                                   Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      12.40            0.00         12.40
IDA                                                           18.30           56.70         75.00
Total:                                                        30.70           56.70         87.40
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF NICARAGUA
Responsible agency: MINISTERIO DE TRANSPORTE Y INFRAESTRUCTURA
Address: Managua, Nicaragua
Contact Person: Amadeo Santana
Tel: 505 222 5913                Fax: 505 228 1246                Email: <eat@ibw.com.ni>
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS M):
FY         2001   j2002          2003      2004       2005       2006
Annual    7.00       22.00      23.00      12.00      9.00       2.00
Cumulative    7.00      29.00      52.00      64.00      73.00     75.00
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 04/04/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
OCS PAD F-.  Sl, 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The overall objective of the project would be to improve the efficiency of road transportation in
Nicaragua.  The specific objectives are to (i) improve transportation infrastructure along the key
international trunk road corridors; (ii) improve access to productive agricultural areas and to rural
communities especially those located in Hurricane Mitch damaged regions; and (iii) help ensure the
sustainability of the road improvements.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The achievement of the project's objectives will be measured by the: (i) reduction in vehicle
operating costs and time savings along the Managua - Guasaule road corridor linking Nicaragua and
Honduras; (ii) qualitative improvements to the network in terms of the km of roads assessed as being in
good or fair condition; (iii) extent of the participation of the private sector in road rehabilitation and
maintenance programs as measured in terms of the numbers and value of contracts awarded; (iv) share of
the budget allocated for road maintenance; and (v) number of rural communities provided with improved
road access.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17496             Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/09/98
The main objective of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) is to support the Government of
Nicaragua in its efforts to complete the transformation toward a market economy capable of sustaining
growth and reducing poverty. Sustaining economic growth is essential because without it there would be
little chance that progress could be made in meeting the other challenges facing the country, including
poverty reduction. Following the Hurricane Mitch devastation, it is clear that this strategy is still
appropriate. In order to help revive growth, IDA supports strategies directed at (i) maintaining a stable
economy and deepening the structural adjustment process; (ii) removing constraints to private sector
development; and (iii) rebuilding the country's social and physical infrastructure base so as to increase
productivity and raise living standards. In terms of the transport sector, the latter item is to be achieved
through (i) increasing the participation of the private sector in transport development; (ii) the development
of rural and feeder roads so as to link productive areas to main corridors; and (iii) the rehabilitation and
improvement of road links that serve as principal trade corridors.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Nicaragua has been experiencing modest economic growth since the early 1 990s but it is still the
second poorest country in the hemisphere, with a 1999 GDP per capita of US$430. Government policies
and economic reforms have as their principal objective the reduction of poverty in Nicaragua. This may
best be attained through a sustained economic growth process and based on a market oriented economy that
is open and competitive internationally. In support of this goal, the Nicaraguan economy requires adequate
levels of transport infrastructure and the efficient delivery of transport services. However, according to the
1999 LSMS findings, overall a little above one-fifth (22.3%) of Nicaraguan households have access to a
paved road; furthermore the household numbers are 7% for the extreme poor, 11% for the poor, and 30%
for the non-poor. It is highly doubtful that such low levels of road infrastructure provision could support
government development objectives effectively. In reality, economic growth could become constrained if
key needs are not addressed soon.
-2 -



Nicaragua's road network totals 18,950 km, of which only about 1,870 km are asphalt paved
primary roads while the vast majority consists largely of rural secondary or tertiary roads that are gravel
surfaced (2,550 kin) or earthen (14,530 km). Traffic levels vary widely but are generally in excess of 2000
vehicles per day (vpd) on the primary roads and upwards of 150 vpd on the gravel roads. The network's
density (14kmlOOOkmi) and service index (0.4km/OOOpop.) in terms of paved roads, are among the lowest
in Central America. Roughly consistent with the population distribution, more than 80% of the road
network is located on the Pacific side of the country. By the end of the economic and politically difficult
1980s, with almost no resurfacing or reconstruction taking place, the network had deteriorated to the point
where, as measured by roughness indices and other factors, only about 12% of it was in good or fair
condition. The roads in poor condition included extensive segments of the north-south trunk road (Natural
Corridor) between the Honduran and Costa Rican borders, as well as the east-west road linking Managua
to the port of Rama. The inadequate and/ or malfunctioning transport infrastructure serves as a bottleneck
for extemal as well as intemal trade, thereby limiting the competitiveness of exports as well as
discouraging the development of areas with agricultural potential.
The 1990's marked the beginning of the rebuilding period with the improvement of about 340 km
of primary roads and about 650 km of rural roads, as well as the implementation of programs for routine
and periodic maintenance by contract during the latter half of the decade. By mid 1998, it was estimated
that over 17% of the network was in good or fair condition. However, Hurricane Mitch of October 1998
had unprecedented effects on the country, by adversely affecting over 850,000 people and causing some
2800 deaths. Sectorally, the more significant damages that produced lasting effects on the economy were
concentrated on infrastructure, particularly the road network, and on agricultural production. In the road
subsector Hurricane Mitch caused severe damages to about 2600km of the network, predominantly the
literal shredding of most gravel roads in Region I (the Segovias) and Region 2 (Leon/Chinandega), and the
partial or total destruction of 83 major bridges. The damages were so extensive that virtually all road
transport services between Managua and the Honduran border were interrupted.  Fortunately, the
Government, with assistance from Donor countries, was able to restore basic traffic circulation in a few
weeks; however the bottleneck effects still linger at the many roadside bypasses erected around damaged
bridges. In sum, in terms of longitude but not necessarily location, Hurricane Mitch more than
neutralized all of the road improvement gains made during the 1990s. However, the qualitatively better
portions of the network fared reasonably well and it was estimated that, after the basic cleaning up and
repairs carried out under the Emergency Programs of the various Donors, about 16% of the total road
network could be considered to be in good or fair condition.
Nicaragua has a fleet of about 230,000 vehicles (an average of 0.05 vehicles/person - one of the
lowest in the region), which includes about 21,000 trucks and 5,500 buses. There is limited recent data on
the age of the vehicle fleet although it is estimated that about 50% of the freight transport fleet is more than
12 years old. Land transport is by far the dominant mode for over 95% of freight and passenger
movements. Preliminary estimates place road transport volumes close to 4.8 billion vehicle-km per year.
The provision of freight transport services is fully private. All public enterprises that provided road
transport services during the Sandinista administration have been privatized. Operators are organized in
transport cooperatives and there are 94 of these in the light and heavy duty segment of the freight market.
Half of the freight operators are owner-drivers while the other half own, on average, a maximum of three
trucks.  In general, aside from the aged vehicles and poor road conditions, it is the combination of the
mostly shoulder-less, two lane roads together with the ever present agricultural vehicles, cattle and
non-motorized traffic that contribute to the relatively difficult transport operating environment on the road
network.
-3 -



The Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure (MTI) is responsible for managing the entire 18,950
km primary and rural road network, and for the operation and regulation of road, sea and air transport. In
addition to road construction, its transport functions relate to the promulgation and implementation of
regulations relating to the safety and efficiency of operation of all means of public transport, by land, sea
and air. This includes establishing tariffs for inter- and intra-urban transport of passengers, authorizing
licenses for the operation of vehicles and vessels on particular routes, including those temporarily in the
national territory. MTI, formerly MCT - the Ministerio de Construcci6n y Transporte, resulted from the
1997 implementation of administrative reforms, supported by the Institutional Development Project (Credit
2690-NI), that promoted the change to an agency less deeply involved in the day to day activities of the
sector, and more concerned with ensuring that the provision of services by others is closely related to the
needs of the users, and preventing abuses in a more open and competitive environment. The regulatory role
of MTI has been reduced to the minimum level necessary to help ensure safety and competitiveness in the
provision of services. The future focus will thus be on the design and implementation of regulations
regarding vehicle design and safety, driver competence and exhaust emissions. MTI has about 550 staff
and their level of training varies widely. At the highest levels there are several staff with post-graduate
specialist qualifications, very pertinent to the tasks for which they are responsible, while at the other
extreme, there are many staff without any qualifications beyond secondary school.
Currently, the major issues affecting the road subsector are related largely to the (i) sheer size of
the rehabilitation backlog, (ii) need for improved road maintenance, and (iii) weaknesses in the planning
process. In order to address the rehabilitation backlog, based on an HDM derived prioritization of the
overall road network needs, a US $488 million plan for the rehabilitation and maintenance of key segments
of the road network during 1999 - 2004 has been formulated. The road improvement plan covers all
aspects of the road network. About $260 million or 54% of the program will be for completing the
rehabilitation of the key primary roads. Completion of this component will lead to the restoration to good
condition of over 80% of the trunk or primary asphalt paved roads, including the north-south links between
the Nicaraguan borders at Honduras and Costa Rica, as well as the east-west, Managua -Rama link to the
port at El Rama. The program includes also some $100 million for the stabilization of rural (secondary
or tertiary) roads, with a focus on the improvement of priority agricultural production roads. The remainder
of the program will be for bridge rehabilitation ($50 million) and periodic maintenance by contract ($78
million).
In line with the commitments made at the 1999 Stockholm conference, several of the projects in
the program are already underway and are being financed by the IDB, Danida, European and Japanese
governments, and other Donors. The Government has asked IDA to fund, in addition to its ongoing
program, the rehabilitation of one of the key sections (Managua - Izapa) in the road corridor link to
Honduras, as well as the stabilization of selected rural (secondary and tertiary) roads in Hurricane Mitch
damaged areas. This decade should thus become one of recovery in the road subsector from the Mitch
disaster and MTI will need to manage annual programs that will be about twice the size of the 1994-1998
ones. The MTI's very good performance under the current IDA projects and also in carrying out the Mitch
Emergency Recovery programs with the various donors provides evidence of its ability to manage large
programs in the short term, as the expenditure equivalent of almost one year's normal program was
implemented within 5 months post-Mitch. The challenges now relate to planning and managing a large
program in the medium and longer terms. In order to help assure timely completion of the program, MTI
intends also to make use of foreign contractors appropriately, given that the local industry is still in its early
stages of growth following the difficult economic and political climate of the 1980's and early 1990's.
As the improvement program progresses, it will be essential that the roads be maintained
- 4 -



adequately in order to prevent premature deterioration. Nicaragua actually enjoyed a tradition of good
maintenance in the past as prior to the turbulent 1980s, its road network was cited perennially for being the
best kept in Central America. The problems arose primarily due to the adverse effects of the civil strife and
political turmoil, the resultant shortages and economic crises, and weak planning and implementation
arrangements in the 1980's. Currently, however, the situation can be characterized as one of a promising
recovery. There have been significant improvements in the recent past with the introduction of routine
maintenance by contract using microenterprises under the First IDA Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project (CR2871-NI) and periodic maintenance using private contractors under the Second IDA Project
(CR3085-NI). The Government has also fulfilled its annual commitments to IDA on the level of budgetary
allocations for maintenance. However, in order to optimize performance, the allocations need to be
released in a more timely manner and some of the limitations in the MTI that hamper the planning and
implementation of maintenance need to be addressed. Some initiatives are underway to help address these
issues. In terms of the reliability of funding, although the political climate is now difficult due to the high
petroleum prices, the Government is proceeding with the establishment of a Road Maintenance Fund
(RMF) and has recently passed the enabling legislation for it. This law as designed will allow the Fund to
be established along the lines recommended by the IDA. In terms of implementation, the MTI intends to
gradually increase the share of maintenance performed by contractors to a feasible maximum, and will
continue to reduce the parastatals to the minimum level needed for their deployment during emergencies or
in locations where there are still security problems or no other viable alternatives. There is still much room
for improvement and to do so it will be necessary to develop further the MTI's capacity to manage
maintenance by contract as well as to strengthen the local construction industry. This includes developing
MTI's capacity to carry out condition inventories of the roads, design and implement annual and
multi-annual routine and periodic maintenance programs, as well as to seek least cost solutions to technical
and engineering problems associated with road and bridge maintenance. MTI will require a long-term
program of technical assistance to help accomplish all of these goals.
Finally, the MTI is still affected by overall weaknesses in planning and programming. Planning
was undertaken in the past largely in relation to preparing annual investments for inclusion in the national
budget. Although most projects pass minimum economic rates of return hurdles, at times the annual road
improvement plans may not have been prioritized appropriately and also not consistently included adequate
provisions for maintenance. To help remedy this situation the MTI, with the assistance of foreign
consultants, has prepared the current rehabilitation program within whose framework it has ranked
investments in terms of their economic priority and the Government's strategic goals, while paying
adequate attention to maintenance and to their environmental and social aspects. While a worthwhile
exercise in itself, in order to enhance the sustainability of adequate planning, there is still a need to develop
the MTI's basic capacity to carry out condition inventories of the roads, to improve staff training, to seek
least cost solutions to technical and engineering problems associated with road and bridge maintenance, as
well as to foster the development of the local consulting and contracting industries. There is also a need to
strengthen the management of the procurement and contracts management functions as they are crucial to
fostering the participation of private contractors and thus to timely completion of the road improvement
program.
-5 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Nicaragua no longer has a railroad and its seaports, though rundown, have adequate capacity to
handle current traffic levels. Most of its exports are now headed for Atlantic destinations which means that
Nicaragua has to use the ports in neighboring countries (Honduras and Costa Rica) for its foreign trade and
partly as a result it has for long been subjected to periodic bouts of severe 'landlocked country treatment'
by its neighbors. Still, for improved service characteristics Nicaragua has first to address its own land
transport bottlenecks in all the corridors leading to Atlantic ports, whether along the East - West route to
its own secondary port at El Rama, or along the North - South routes to ports in Honduras or Costa Rica.
Rehabilitation of these corridors would reduce the costs of transporting both exports and imports while at
the same time helping to increase the viability of national ports. A second priority would be to improve the
secondary or rural roads that connect the export corridors and provide access to the major agricultural
production regions, especially those located in Hurricane Mitch-affected areas. These priority areas form a
coherent program that would go far in eliminating the road infrastructure constraints to economic growth.
The proposed project therefore addresses the:
(a) road rehabilitation and maintenance backlog. The various links were selected for their
economic importance and for their potential contribution to restoring efficient transportation on both trunk
and rural roads. For primary roads they form part of the highest ranked corridors (in terms of ERR and
NPV) for road improvement projects in Nicaragua and for secondary roads they are concentrated in the
poor, heavily Mitch-damaged Region I.  They represent part of the IDA share for recovery strategies
agreed in principle with other Donors at the 1999 Stockholm conference on the Mitch related disaster
recovery assistance to Nicaragua. Also, earlier on, in response to the Mitch disaster, the Bank had diverted
about $20 million from Cr3085-NI to finance key emergency road transport restoration programs. In
keeping with commitments in the Board Paper of December 1998 the project will restore financing for
items under Cr3085-NI that are still high priority, such as the Muhan - El Rama road rehab, but had been
delayed due to the diversion of resources to the Mitch Emergency Program. Also, the ongoing and very
successful maintenance by contract programs (for both routine and periodic maintenance) will be expanded
significantly.
(b) institutional development and training needs. The proposed project would provide support for
improving the planning, funding, and implementation of balanced road maintenance and rehabilitation
programs as well as the appropriate training of MTI staff. Under the project, it will be necessary to
continue programns started in the earlier IDA projects for strengthening of the planning division, improving
contract management, training of staff in the use of the HDM and other planning models, and the
preparation of annual and multi-annual economically prioritized road improvement programs. Some of the
groundwork has been completed as the MTI, with Danida assistance, has calibrated the HDM3 for
Nicaraguan conditions and has completed the initial phases of the development of a Pavement Management
System (PMS).  Later stages will require establishing this capability in a sustainable way in the MTI,
introducing HDM4, and assuring that the PMS recommended options provide the core content of annual
programs that can help optimize the tradeoffs between expenditures for rehabilitation and maintenance.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project will help finance the rehabilitation of about 150 km of trunk roads as well as the
stabilization of about 300 km of rural roads. The project will also continue IDA support for the
implementation of maintenance by contract, including routine maintenance works by microenterprises and
- 6 -



periodic maintenance by contractors. These and other components are summarized in the following table.
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                  Sector        Costs     % of   financ1ng   Bank-
(US$U)   Total    (US$M)  financing
Road Rehabilitation Program: for the                 36.40       41.6     31.00      41.3
Managua - Izapa and the Muhan - El
Rama trunk roads.
Rural Transport Improvement                          25.00       28.6     21.20      28.3
Program: for the stabilization of rural
secondary and tertiary roads located
mostly in the Mitch devastated Region
I.
Road Maintenance Program: for the                     10.50      12.0      9.00       12.0
expansion of the program of routine
maintenance by microenterprises, and
for the execution of about 600 km of
periodic maintenance by contract.
Institutional and Technical                           6.40        7.3      6.30       8.4
Development Program: to assist the
MTI to: (i) prepare annual road
improvement programs; (ii) introduce
HDM4 and improve the PMS; (iii)
expand the road maintenance by
contract program; (iv) carry out staff
training and capacity building; (v)
carry out feasibility studies, transport
sector studies, project supervision and
detailed engineering.
Contingencies                                         9.10       10.4      7.50       10.0
Total Project Costs                   87.40     100.0     75.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                   87.40      100.0     75.00     100.0
-7 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Starting from minimal or near-zero participation levels during the command economy period of the 1980's,
some 1200 km of roads are now maintained by microenterprises, while private contractors as a whole
implement about 55% of the MTI road improvement program. Much of this strategic change has resulted
from programs supported or introduced by IDA. The Pilot Program for Maintenance by Microenterprises
(PPMM) was established by the IDA under the First project for the introduction of planned routine
maintenance along selected trunk road segments. Each of the initial twelve (now 25) microenterprises were
organized as cooperatives, with members having equal rights and obligations. Their contracts with the
MTI are for the maintenance of a pre-defined approximately 45km road section to agreed standards. They
provide their own tools and transportation to the job-site, while MTI provides materials and small items of
equipment when needed. The members of the microenterprises are selected from communities living along
the road sections to be maintained. The actual selection is carried out with the assistance of Promoters
hired by the MTI under the project. There are other agencies involved also with the program, including the
Ministerio de Trabajo (setting up the legal framework), and the Instituto Nacional Tecnol6gico (training the
promoters and the microenterprises themselves). This component has demonstrated the benefits to both the
introduction of planned routine road maintenance and to the employment of rural people in a cost effective
manner. The performance of the microenterprises has been excellent and they enjoy a high degree of
support from the local communities and officials. The stability of the membership in all of the enterprises
has probably contributed significantly to the success. MTI's effective administration of the program
especially in terms of timely payments, consistent supervision inputs and other program oversight steps
have contributed also. The program has attracted the interest of other countries and is now being replicated
by Honduran officials (under the IDA-financed Road Reconstruction & Improvement Project) after their
study tour to Nicaragua. The goal under the proposed project is to expand the pilot and establish a more
permanent routine maintenance program by microenterprises (Progama de Mantenimiento Rutinario Por
Microempresas - PMRM) as part of the overall maintenance by contract program. Also, as portions of
the MTI's rural roads network are stabilized under the project they will be included in the PMRM, which
so far has only covered trunk roads.
IDA projects have similarly sought to increase the participation of private contractors through the
introduction of periodic maintenance by contract programs. This has been a difficult endeavor because
periodic maintenance has been carried out since the 1980s almost solely by the state enterprises (Coerco).
So far the IDA approach has been to encourage a gradual phasing out of the Coerco and increasing the
share of MTI budget allocated to maintenance by private contractors; this has resulted in the initial gains
by the private sector. This project will feature support for these difficult tradeoffs that need to be made, and
to help foster the reforms the so far successful approach of using conditionality that rewards MTI for
reaching targets rather than prohibiting choices will be continued. Consistent with this approach, MTI has
prepared and submitted to the IDA a plan for the reduction of the Coerco participation to about 20% of
budget by year 2005; this is a relatively ambitious target and will require continued IDA and other Donors'
support for road maintenance programs as this helps to provide the catalyst for the increased private sector
participation implied by this plan. The private contractors themselves may require assistance in reaching
this target as they currently do not possess the matching capacity required. The achievement of the target
will also be reinforced by the agreements reached at negotiations with the MTI and the Ministry of Finance
(i) on the share of budget to be allocated to maintenance by contract (detailed in Annex 2, table 1), and (ii)
on the full establishment of the RMF. The latter will include but not be limited to the development of the
initial RMF workprogram, its operational procedures manual, and the appointment of key planning
personnel. Finally, support will be provided also to help MTI's procurement unit in developing contracting
procedures that could minimize the lead time needed to mobilize private contractors for normal tasks, and
also in the case of adverse weather- related and other emergencies that have so far been mainly Coerco
- 8 -



functions.
3. Benefits and target population:
The proposed project will benefit the country as a whole through the restoration of efficient road transport
infrastructure in key regions and corridors. It will in particular benefit road users and the economy as a
whole by eliminating road bottlenecks and lowering vehicle operating costs, due especially to the
improvement of the trunk roads in the key trade corridors. The rural communities in Region I, which are
among the poorer ones in the country, will benefit directly from the improved connectivity, lowered costs of
agricultural production and the reduction of dust hazards to their health.  Significant employment
opportunities will be provided to local residents through the jobs provided during the execution of
rehabilitation and maintenance works. The establishment and operation of additional microenterprises will
provide entrepreneurship training for currently unemployed people and will expand the reach of an efficient
and very cost effective maintenance program. Finally, the technical assistance should help to consolidate
the gains made previously and help to foster a better use of the MTI resources; this is significant as the
MTI's budget accounts for about 12% of overall public expenditures.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The MTI, through the Technical Support Team (TST) that is already managing the current IDA projects
will manage the proposed project. The TST staff have performed very well on the implementation of the
two projects, including the execution of the substantial additional tasks that arose from the Mitch
Emergency program. For the proposed project, as agreed at negotiations, MTI will add two additional
engineers to strengthen the TST, especially for the rural roads stabilization program. The TST will be
maintained for the duration of the project and it will continue to report to the Project Coordination Unit of
the MTI.   Adequate arrangements exist already for the auditing of project accounts and financial
statements by private auditors acceptable to the Bank. However, in order to help improve project
management, MTI has started work on the implementation of the Project Management Reporting
component of the LACI system but it is not expected to use this system for Credit disbursements.
Procurement performance has been adequate as conformed by the formal assessment that has been carried
out as part of project preparation.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Larger trunk roads component: The MTI ideally would like to include also the Chinandega -
Guasaule section of the (natural) corridor linking Honduras as this section was damaged severely by
Hurricane Mitch and is in very poor condition. However, it was not included now because of the (i) size
of the IDA credit that would be needed; (ii) considerable coordination of any road paving works that would
be required with the ongoing reconstruction of major Mitch- damaged/destroyed bridges (Japan financed)
in this section; and (iii) need to finance the restoration of key rural roads.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
-9-



Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                     Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Transport Improvement              CR287 1-NI: Road Rehab I          HS             HS
CR3085-NI: Road Rehab II          HS            HS
Other development agencies
Danida Financed:
Main and Rural roads improvement.  (i) Managua - El Rama
Corridor rehab: San Benito -
San Lorenzo section.
(ii) Feeder Roads Program
IDB Financed:
Road Improvement                   (i) REMEVIAL
(ii) Pan American Hwy Rehab
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The applicable lessons learned from the ongoing projects, and from similar operations in other
countries, relate mainly to the issues facing countries in the rebuilding of networks, following periods of
natural disasters or economic downturns. IDA has extensive experience in countries whose infrastructure
has deteriorated severely after years of neglect or natural disasters. The experience seems to indicate that,
even given the Governments' typically overriding desire to rehabilitate the entire road network, emphasis
should be placed on designing a balanced program that focuses on the sustainable development of the
institutions that manage the sector as well as on the maintenance of  infrastructure.  As for the
rehabilitation itself, IDA would support typically projects that focus only on the core, economically viable
segments of the old network. Very important too would be the use of project conditionality that is designed
to increase the level and reliability of budgetary allocations for maintenance of at least the segments of the
network that are in good or fair condition and, subsequently, for other segments once they have been
rehabilitated.
Complementary to the design and implementation of balanced programs, are the lessons learned in
terms of including other elements that are intended to promote sustainability. These consist mainly of
helping to: (i) improve the planning, programming, and implementation of road maintenance by contract;
(ii) ensure that attention is paid to safety and environmental issues in the sector; (iii) support the line
agencies in adapting to changed roles in a typically new policy environment of deregulation and of greater
private sector involvement; and (iv) promote the development of the local construction industry. Depending
on the agency, it is also helpful in project design to consider the facts that (i) frequent supervision is
helpful to building and maintaining the momentum for project implementation; and (ii) government agency
staff are often overworked, and have to address simultaneously both the requirements of their institutions
and of the IDA-financed projects.
The experience of other donors who have been active in the transport sector, especially Danida and
the IDB, has been relatively good. Particular to Nicaragua, IDA's and their experiences suggest
consistently that (i) sustainable institutional development requires significant support from donors over a
long period of time as well as coordination with other government agencies; (ii) frequent changes in
- 1 0 -



administration and in key staff can adversely affect the implementation of technical assistance, institutional
strengthening, and road maintenance by contract programs; and (iii) the use of a local counterpart funds
account is extremely helpful to fostering uninterrupted project implementation.
IDA experience with road funds is also appropriate here. Though there is significant variation by
country, certain elements seem to be essential to designing a successful and sustainable road fund. First, a
road fund should be funded to the maximum extent possible by road user fees (an extra road tariff based on
fuel levies and license fees, supplemented by certain traffic violation fines, charges for overloading, etc.)
and not solely by budgetary transfers from the Treasury. Second, the fund should be managed by an
independent Board comprising representatives of road user groups who are selected by the organizations
they represent. Third, in response to changing road maintenance expenditure needs, currency devaluation
and inflation, the Board should be to some extent free to determine the level of the tariff. Fourth, the fuel
levy should be collected by fuel companies, and when feasible other fees should be collected under contract,
with the requirement that all of the proceeds be deposited directly into the road fund. Fifth, the fund should
be managed according to sound commercial principles, with a commercial accounting system, clear
disbursement procedures, an independent financial audit, and technical audits. Finally, to avoid mostly the
problems associated with over- and under- funding, the fund should have built in mechanisms for regularly
adjusting the road tariff.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government's commitment to the restoration of transport infrastructure and the establishment
of acceptable transport services was well documented in the requests that were put forward to the Donors
at the 1999 Stockholm conference. The Government is committed to providing some of the financial and
other resources needed to implement the project. Given the excellent performrance under the two previous
projects, it will maintain some of the existing arrangements such as the use of a local counterpart funds
account (Fondo Rotatorio), and it will further deepen its commitment by expanding the road maintenance
by contract program and releasing funds in a timely manner for the expenditures under this program. The
Government regards the proposed project as the first phase of IDA follow through on the understandings
at the Stockholm conference regarding support for restoration of the Natural Corridor and of rural roads.
However, it should be noted that from the Government's perspective, the IDA participation is tantamount
to US$55 million because the remainder really represents the restoration of funds borrowed from
CR3085-NI for the Mitch-related emergency works.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Due to the pre-existing rehabilitation backlog and its subsequent compounding by the hurricane
damages, there exists a strong desire on the part of the Government to improve the rural and the trunk
roads. In this context, IDA support can be instrumental at this time to ensuring that attention is paid to
road maintenance and to addressing the needs of the rural communities. Coping with hurricane Mitch has
also taxed the Governments resources and hence the IDA funding is really needed at this time if some of the
road transport bottlenecks are to be removed so as to permit continued support for economic growth.
Apart from funding, IDA involvement can help to (i) improve the planning, funding and implementation of
maintenance; (ii) ensure that adequate attention is paid to environmental issues; (iii) design and implement
training and institutional strengthening programs for the MTI; and (iv) support entrepreneurial training and
business development skills for the members of the microenterprises.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
- 11 -



* Cost benefit    NPV=US$95 million; ERR = 28.7 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The economic justification for the trunk roads rehabilitation was carried out using the Bank's HDM
model and was based primarily on the quantified benefits that can be attributed to the road improvements,
in particular savings in vehicle operating costs. The economic rate of return for both trunk roads was
about 29%. For the rural (secondary and tertiary) roads stabilization, using a similar approach, about 900
km of high priority roads from the road network primarily of Region I and also from a few other zones
were analyzed. As a result, it was possible to identify and select enough links for the rural roads
stabilization program totaling about 300 km that have positive NPVs at a 12% discount rate; details are in
Annex 4 The maintenance component represents the continued implementation of the priority routine and
periodic maintenance program that was developed under the Second IDA project using the HDM-3 model.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
n/a
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal effects of the project are expected to be modest because the annual project investments represent
less than 10% of the revenues collected from the road subsector through license fees and taxes on fuels,
vehicle spare parts, etc. The investments will also average annually less than 4% of the Government
capital budget and hence will not pose a significant fiscal burden.
3. Technical:
The proposed project includes basic road rehabilitation works, all completely within the existing
rights of way. Shoulders will be provided in built-up locations to help promote the safety of pedestrians
and of non-motorized traffic. Standard, well known technologies will be used and construction costs will be
minimized through the use of national and international competitive bidding procedures.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Executing Agency will be the Ministerio de Transporte y Infraestructura (MTI).
4.2 Project management:
The MTI has an established coordinating unit, the Technical Support Team (TST), that manages
the implementation of IDA projects in the transport sector. Given the excellent results obtained under the
previous road rehabilitation and maintenance projects (Credits 2871 & 3085-NI), the same institutional
arrangements will continue to be used for the management of this project. The TST will however need to be
strengthened for the secondary roads component through the addition of 2 engineers and support staff. The
Government agreed at negotiations to staff and maintain the TST in accordance with IDA requirements for
the duration of the project.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The procurement assessment for the project has been completed. In sum, procurement was
managed relatively well under the previous projects and no major issues emerged. For the proposed project,
standard bidding documents and largely the prevailing procurement method thresholds and prior review
- 12 -



arrangements will be retained. The project will also provide technical assistance to strengthen the newly
created procurement unit in the MTI by providing a contracts management adviser.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The MTI's performance has been acceptable so far in terms of Bank auditing and financial
management requirements. The intention under this project is to strengthen the TST to improve financial
and managerial reporting, rather than a full LACI implementation. The required financial management
assessment per OP/BP 10.02 has been carried out by an accredited financial management consultant under
the supervision of a LAC Senior Financial Management Specialist and has been included in the Project
File. The strengths of the existing capacity in this regard have been recognized in the assessment and there
are no major issues.  Nevertheless, areas subject to improvement have been identified and the
corresponding action plan detailing the necessary steps to be taken to enable the preparation of Project
Management Reports (PMR) has been agreed with project management.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The proposed project consists mostly of the completion of rehabilitation and maintenance works
along existing public road corridors. The trunk roads pass mostly through rural areas that feature well
fenced pasturelands on either side of the right of way. These areas have been long developed and there are
no virgin forestlands along the roads. There will be no new road construction nor the need to traverse
fragile natural habitats. There are no major environmental concerns aside from the construction noise, dust
nuisances, etc. These can be managed through adequate engineering design and construction practices as
specified in the MTI environmental manual (NIC99) and hence no stand-alone environmental studies or
reports are needed. For the rural roads, all works will be carried out within the existing road platform and
there will be no major earthworks. The works will involve the restoration or stabilization with gravel and
adoquines (small cement blocks) of existing Mitch damaged roads. Based on the environmental screenings
completed, there will also be no negative impacts produced by this component. Adequate specifications
will be included in the civil works contracts to help ensure adherence to acceptable environmental practices
during construction.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Given the nature of the works, a formal EMP is not needed. However, similar to previous
projects, specific environmental protection clauses will be included in civil works contracts.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: November 2000
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Please refer to Sections 6.2 and 6.3.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The environmental unit in the MTI is being strengthened under an IDB project to carry out the
monitoring needed. The MTI quarterly reports will include assessments of compliance with the
environmental manual, especially the enforcement of specific environmental conditions in road
improvement contracts.
- 13 -



6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Given the nature of the works, the rehabilitation of trunk and rural roads in long used and well
trafficked corridors, and based on the social assessments that were carried out, no negative impacts are
expected. Also, there will be no resettlement of people and the roads do not traverse any indigenous
communities and hence, in this regard, there should be no adverse effects from project implementation. In a
few cases along the Muhan - El Rama road, although less space is needed for the proposed road
rehabilitation as plans actually call for a reduction in the current pavement width, wider shoulders may be
provided to improve the safety of roadside activities associated with vendor stands at a few locations. The
vendors at the relevant locations expressed a strong preference to simply move their shops back by a few
meters as the building of wider shoulders would permit easier stopping by passing traffic and thus enhance
their sales potential. The MTI and the municipalities have concurred with this proposed option. It should
also be borne in mind that this road section was included originally as part of the Second Project
(CR3085-NI) and its social and environmental analyses had already met with IDA approval. Further details
are described in Annex 1 1 and in the reports in the Project File.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The local people and municipal authorities were informed about the project by MTI and its
consultant teams, and they are all in support of the proposed road improvements. All vendors using the
right-of-way have been documented and the MTI/ municipality organized meetings with them in order to
obtain their opinion. The vendors welcomed the road project, and expressed a preference to continue
selling their goods along the roadside rather than to relocate to municipal markets.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The informal vendor committees were consulted during project identification and preparation; they wanted
to make sure that the road improvements be carried out along the existing alignments as this would benefit
them the most.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The MTI's environmental and social unit will be strengthened so as to better provide an informed,
continuous relationship with local peoples and municipal authorities during project implementation. Staff
from this unit will supervise any shifting back of shops, and will prepare and send a report to the IDA on
the results of such activity.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Road sections were selected largely on the basis of economic criteria. However, MTI will carry
out surveys and prepare reports on the number, employment and transport activities of populations in the
influence area of stabilized rural roads.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the prOject?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
- 14 -



Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      O Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   OYes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes * No
Involuntar Resettlement OD 4.30                                OYes *No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              O Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   O Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Specific clauses on environmental protection will be included in civil works contracts.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability will be enhanced through the strengthening of the MTI, the emphasis on planning and the
provision of adequate budgets for road maintenance.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Inadequate and unreliable provision of     M         Use of the local funds account (fondo rotatorio)
counterpart funds                                    will continue as under the previous projects
Poor performance by local contractors on   M         Emphasis will be placed on the pre-
the secondary roads stabilization.                   qualification of capable contractors and
adequate supervision by consultants.
Limitations in the MTI ability to manage    S        A contracts management advisor will be
an expanded program of maintenance by                financed under the project. Expenditure targets
contract                                             for maintenance by contract will also be agreed
with the MTI.
Weakened MTI interest in strengthening     M         Frequent IDA supervision missions and the
its planning and programming capacity.               provision of technical assistance
From Components to Outputs
Consultants and contractors not hired on   M         Timely provision of counterpart funds and use
time                                                 of experienced TST staff to manage the project.
Poor or slow procurement of small          M         Technical assistance will be provided to the
contractors for secondary roads program.             MTI's procurement unit
Additional microenterprises are trained    N         MTI plans to use experienced promoters and
and established as programmed.                       trainers for the microenterprises.
The Technical Support Team continues to    M         It is acceptable now but could be affected by
be staffed adequately and to perform well.           staff changes after the elections. IDA
supervision missions could be helpful to
maintaining momentum
Overall Risk Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 15 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
An account in local currency (Fondo Rotatorio) for the project's counterpart funds should be opened in a
commercial Bank. The Cordoba equivalent of US$100,000 (representing I month's worth of counterpart
funds) should also be deposited therein. Also, the MTI will have to appoint two additional engineers to the
TST, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the IDA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Road Maintenance:
a) The Government will provide funds to carry out the annual programs of road routine and
periodic maintenance, as specified in Annex 2 Table 1.
b) MTI will carry out a program of maintenance by contract, as detailed in Annex 2 Table 1.
Monitoring, reporting:
a) MTI will submit semi-annual performance reports in a format to be agreed with IDA.
b) IDA will carry out a mid-term review not later than July 31, 2003.
Disbursement conditions:
a) No disbursements for spot improvements/ periodic maintenance under the component for RMF
works prior to the satisfactory establishment of the Road Maintenance Fund. This will include the
appointment of key planning personnel, and the development of the initial RMF workprogram and its
operational procedures manual.
b) No disbursements for road maintenance by microenterprises until similar fumding under
Cr.3085-NI has been committed fully.
H. Readiness for Implementation
2 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
111. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
i 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 16 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
3 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
L] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Emnma'nuel A. James               Da       ip                        D. M Dowsett-Coirolo
Team Leader                       Sector  ager                       Country Manager
- 17 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
NICARAGUA: Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Key Pedform'ance
tHirarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring& Evaluation    Critical Assmptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
The project supports CAS
objectives related to improving
the     country's     basic
infrastructure, as an essential
component of its broader
private  sector  development
strategy and efforts to improve
its         competitiveness.
Specifically it supports:
(i) increasing private sector Development of a more   IDA mission assessments,    Government willingness to
participation in the transport capable and competitive  Progress Reports.         hire private contractors.
sector;                    domestic construction industry
(ii) the development of rural Improved transport services   Progress reports; socio-  The timely and adequate
and feeder roads so as to link and job opportunities for rural economic indicators of  provision of human and
productive  areas  to  main communities.              selected areas.             budgetary resources.
corridors; and
(iii) the rehabilitation and
improvement  of  principal Removal of bottlenecks to the  Progress reports, Industry    MTI manages the road
export corridors.          fostering of Nicaraguan trade  surveys.                rehabilitation program
and the development of a road                         efficiently.
transport industry that is
competitive within the region.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
(i) improve transportation  Efficient access will be  Progress reports, budget    Project components have been
infrastructure along the key   restored in key corridors  documents               implemented as expected in
international trunk road   following the completion of                            terms of both quantity and
corridors.                 the trunk roads rehabilitation.                        quality.
(ii) improve access to     Poor rural communities linked IDA supervision missions,    MTI and local contractors can
productive agricultural areas  efficiently to the rest of the                     manage the logistics required
and to rural communities,    network upon completion of                           for the implementation of
especially those located in    the rural roads stabilization                      many, dispersed, small civil
Hurricane Mitch damaged    programs.                                              works sub-projects.
regions.
(iii) help ensure the     Protection of public        IDA supervision missions.    Continued Government
sustainability of the road  investments in the road   Annual Donor coordination   willingness to reduce
improvements.              network through maintenance meetings.                  maintenance by force account.
by contract.                                           Ability of local contractors to
perform at a high level.
- 18 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    CrtiMal Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
A. Civil Works                                                                 There are no sustained
Road Rehabilitation and   About 150 km of trunk roads  Analysis of contractor  counterpart funding problems.
Improvement.              rehabilitated.            performance.
25% reduction in vehicle
operating costs.
Rural Transport Improvement About 300km of secondary    Annual reports and IDA  Local contractors perform
and tertiary roads improved.  mission assessments.  well.
20% reduction in vehicle
operating costs
Road Network Maintenance   Establishment of 15 additional MTI reports, IDA mission    MTI manages expanded
microenterprises.         assessments.              progran of road maintenance
About 500 skilled and                               by contract successfully.
unskilled people employed for
maintenance by contract.
Km of roads maintained each
year by contract.
B. Capacity Building
Improve MTI road subsector  MTI's planning unit would be Annual road condition  MTI maintains interest in
management capacity       strengthened further, and the  surveys; IDA mission reports. strengthening its planning and
HDM4 initial phases would be                        programming functions.
installed.
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
Road Rehabilitation Program:        36.40           Periodic Supervision, Progress Timely hiring of consultants
for the Managua - Izapa and                         reports and mid term review. and contractors and provision
the Muhan - El Rama trunk                                                      of counterpart funds
roads.
Rural Transport Improvement         25.00             -ditto-                  Periodic hiring of small
Program: for the stabilization                                                 contractors is relatively
of secondary and tertiary roads                                                problem free.
located in the Mitch
devastated Region I and in
other areas.
- 19 -



Road Maintenance Program:             10.50             -ditto-                   Timely training and
for the expansion of the                                                          establishment of micro-
program of routine                                                                enterprises.
maintenance by
microenterprises, and for the
execution of about 600 km of
periodic maintenance by
contract.
Institutional and Technical           6.40            -ditto-                     The Technical Support Team
Development Program: for                                                          is staffed adequately for the
training, technical assistance                                                    duration of the project.
and consultant services to
assist the MTI to: (i) prepare
annual road improvement
programs; (ii) introduce
HDM4 and extend the PMS;
(iii) supervise the project; (iv)
support and broaden the road
maintenance by contract
program; (v) carry out staff
training; (vi) carry out
feasibility studies, transport
sector studies, reforestation
study, and detailed
engineering.
Contingencies                         9.10
- 20 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
NICARAGUA: Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$36.40 million
1.    This component will finance the rehabilitation and improvement of the Managua - Izapa
road (63km) and the Muhan - El Rama road (92 km). The Managua - Izapa road represents the
most trafficked section of the trunk road ("Natural Corridor") linking Nicaragua to Honduras at
Guasaule. Its rehabilitation would mark a continuation of IDA support under the First credit when
the Izapa - Chinandega section (67km) of this trunk road was improved. The Managua - Izapa
section, already in need of rehabilitation even prior to Hurricane Mitch, is currently at an advanced
stage of deterioration and has reached the end of its economic life. The first 10 km near Managua
is a 3-4 lane road with traffic volumes of more than 8,000 vehicles per day (vpd). It is also used
by many bicyclists who commute to and from satellite cities near Managua.  The road has
adequate width and can be rehabilitated within the existing right of way. As part of the
rehabilitation, bus pullover areas will be provided and adequate road shoulders will be provided so
as to help improve safety for cyclists and other slow moving traffic. The rest of the road, from Las
Piedrecitas onwards traverses flat, more rural terrain, with well-fenced farmlands on either side of
the wide (45meter) road right of way, and carries about 2500 vpd. It is expected that pavement
recyclying techniques would be used for the rehabilitation works that would terminate at the
beginning of the road section that was improved under the First IDA credit.
The other trunk road link scheduled for rehabilitation (Muhan - El Rama) forms the last link in the
290 km road from Managua due east to the river port at El Rama. This road was paved in the
1970s to mostly two lane rural road standards but has deteriorated severely over the years. The
entire road needs rehabilitation, and as agreed with other donors under the Second IDA credit, the
IDA will finance the rehab of the first link (Managua Airport to San Benito) and this last link,
while Danida and IDB would finance rehabilitation of the two intermediate links. Work on both
IDA sections was delayed by the need to divert MTI resources to Hurricane Mitch works, however
rehabilitation of the first link is about to begin. Danida has started work on the second link (San
Benito - San Lorenzo), while the IDB, whose efforts were diverted also to the Mitch Emergency
effort, is preparing another project for its section (San Lorenzo - Muhan) of the road. The Muhan
- El Rama roadway is one of the most deteriorated roads in the country; as a rule the pavement is
severely distressed and features frequent and extensive potholing. The road largely traverses rural
terrain, again with well-fenced farmland on either side of a wide road right of way, and the traffic
ranges by section from 460 - 550 vpd. The works consist primarily of rehabilitating the road along
existing alignments, provision of adequate drainage and road signs. Given the low traffic levels,
the road width will be reduced to about 6 meters however at sections where there are many
roadside vendors, slow moving vehicles or cyclists, adequate shoulders and vehicle pull-offs will be
provided.
2.      The proposed works will be divided into five sections so as to more readily permit
participation by local contractors in the ICB award process.   Consultancy services will be
provided to MTI to help supervise these works.
Project Component 2 - US$25.00 million
4.    This component includes provisions for the stabilization of about 300km  of rural
secondary and tertiary roads located primarily in the Mitch devastated Region I. It will be executed
- 21 -



by private contractors who will restore the road sections (Annex 4) to gravel (empedrado) or
adoquine (small cement blocks) standards, all within the existing rights-of way. There will be
minimal or no earthworks and part of the program will be implemented by small contractors so as
to provide growth opportunities for them. As analyzed in the Bank's Poverty Assessment report,
adoquine stabilization is a simple, cost effective technique which enables microenterprises or small
contractors to quickly improve local rural roads. In purely transport terms, due to Nicaragua's
rainy climate, adoquines are more cost effective than gravel surfacing because they offer an
improved all-weather surface that can more readily facilitate the mixed traffic of motorized
vehicles, as well as walking, bicycling or other non motorized transport (NMT) typical in the rural
areas. There are also other beneficial features, as mentioned in the Poverty report's assessment of
the post-Mitch Emergency Program's adoquine restoration of a few roads under Cr.3085-NI, that
will be taken advantage of in the design and implementation of this component. These arose from
the fact that (i) both the production of adoquines and their placement in the roadbed are highly
labor intensive operations; (ii) less imported inputs are consumed than for other stabilization
techniques; (iii) completion of the project cycle required less logistical and managerial support
because of the simplicity of adoquines; (iv) roads require dramatically reduced levels of
maintenance afterwards; and (v) little use is made of costly, heavy equipment during
implementation or the subsequent mnaintenance. Consultants services will be provided to assist
MTI in the implementation of this component.
Project Component 3 - US$ 10.50 million
4.     This component includes provisions for the implementation of both routine and periodic
maintenance by contract. It represents specific IDA assistance to MTI in meeting its overall
maintenance targets (see Table 1) for which additional technical assistance will be provided. The
sub- components are:
Ml: Periodic maintenance: About US$4.0 million for the continued implementation of MTI's
program of periodic maintenance by contract, begun under the Second project. The latter will
consist of contracts for private contractors for the implementation of spot improvements and major
maintenance works required to keep key roads passable all year. The program will help MTI also
in its attempt to increase private contractor participation in the road sector.
M2: Routine Maintenance by Microenterprises: About US$4.0 million for an extension of the
program for routine maintenance by microenterprises, started under Cr.2871-NI. IDA will mostly
finance training, promotional activities, training materials, goods, equipment and the technical
assistance required. An additional 15 microenterprises will be formed, bringing the total number to
40.
M3: RMF Works: Pending full establishment of the Road Maintenance Fund as approved by the
recently passed law, about US$2.5 million would be available for spot improvements/ periodic
maintenance on roads to be selected from the MTI maintenance program and approved by IDA.
These works are to be implemented by private contractors to be hired by the MTI. Technical
assistance will be provided to the MTI for the staffing and establishment of the RMF and in the
development of its initial work program.
Consultancy services will be provided to MTI to assist in the design and management of this
program.
- 22 -



Project Component 4 - US$6.40 million
6.    This component includes technical assistance, training, and studies needed to help MTI
implement the project and to manage the road sector development better. The subcomponents are:
TI:  Technical support will be continued for the TST that is currently managing the
implementation of Cr.3085-NI, and that will subsequently manage the proposed project. IDA
support will be used primarily for performance monitoring, contracts management, design and
implementation of  training programs, technical audits, traffic origin-destination surveys,
preparation of reports, organizing the Annual Transport Sector review, the purchase of 6 utility
vehicles, and ICR preparation. MTI will be asked to strengthen the TST by providing 2 additional
local engineers.
T2: Assistance for the design and supervision of the overall contract maintenance program,
including staff training, and for the establishment of the Road Maintenance Fund (RMF).
Comprehensive assistance will be provided to help MTI fulfill its maintenance objectives as
outlined in Table 1 of this Annex, including the design of promotional activities and the training of
staff for the institutional and operational needs of the RMF. Assistance will also be provided to
strengthen the MTI's procurement unit so as to help streamline the management of contracts for the
domestically financed programs. Local or expatriate senior engineers, experienced in soils and
asphaltic cement stabilization and in managing the implementation of road maintenance by contract
will be hired.
T3: Technical assistance, training and equipment for improving planning and programming in
support of the Pavement Management Systems (PMS) developed by the planning unit of the MTI.
Adequate attention will also be paid to integrating sound environmental practices in the planning
cycle. This component would specifically continue assistance begun under Cr. 3085NI to the MTI
for the preparation and updating of rolling 3-year investment plans using the Bank's HDM and
other analytical planning models. The objective is to enable MTI to plan and prioritize investments
in a manner that would utilize scarce resources more efficiently. The Nicaraguan PMS was
developed largely under a Danida Grant (with the assistance of Danish consultants) and is
designed to store data on road and vehicle fleet characteristics, as well as on road work activities
and costs. The PMS collects all of the data needed by the HDM3 model, creates the input files
needed by HDM3, runs it automatically in the background, and then collects and outputs the
analysis generated by HDM3. The PMS is better than many basic engineering planning models
because it deploys the HDM3 economic analysis routines. The data is stored efficiently and a
sound process is used for defining the homogenous sections in terms of traffic, pavement type and
road condition. These homogenous sections are then evaluated first by performing an engineering
design and then by performing an economic evaluation of that technical solution and comparing it
with alternatives; this all leads to the definition of rolling, multi-year priority road maintenance
and improvement programs. It is a very good system, with the only weakness being the extreme
difficulty in obtaining intermediate outputs from its integrated 'blackbox' design that would be
useful in possibly exporting the partially processed data to a spreadsheet program or other
analytical tools such as the HDM manager, EBM or GIS models. Hence users of the system are
somewhat restricted to the evaluation tools that are built-in to the existing PMS and cannot make
maximum use of the extensive database being collected and developed. The installation of HDM4,
is intended to address this problem as it would provide the interface needed to support many other
evaluation methodologies, in addition to its inherent improvements over HDM3. The full
changeover will take some time, hence the first step will be to render the PMS able to create a
roads characteristics data file that could be read by HDM4.
- 23 -



T4: Reforestation near the El Rama area:. The focus will be on the implementation of a pilot
reforestation program, to be designed under the Cr3085-NI, in the road corridor near Rama that
connects the Cerro Wawasan and the Cerro Silva protected areas. These areas are identified in the
maps in the project document for the Atlantic Biological Corridor Project (GEF financed).
T5: Consultancy services for feasibility studies, preparation and updating of detailed engineering,
and for the supervision of components A and B of the project will also be provided.
- 24 -



Annex 2, Table I: Annual Road Maintenance Targets
Item                      2001        2002           2003               2004
1. MTI road maintenance budget         12         14             15                18
(US$mill)                          l
2. Budget (%) allocated to contracts   35         40              50               65
3. Amount allocated to contracts       4.2        5.6            7.5               11.7
(US$mill)
4. Km. (good + fair) maintained by contract
4.1 Routine Maintenance
4.1.1 Asphalt Paved
- by Microempresas           1025        1200           1325              1450
- Other                       100        150            200               300
4.1.2 Gravel & Adoquine surfaced
- by Microempresas            100        150            250               350
- Other                       200        350            400               400
4.2 Periodic Maintenance
4.2.1 Asphaltic                  52         68             90                160
4.2.2 Re-gravelling              23         02             235               340
Totals                  1500       2000           2500              3000
5. Cost (USS Mill)
5.1 Routine Maintenance
- Microempresas                1.5         1.9           2.3               2.8
- Other                        0.4        0.5     l      0.6               0.8
5.2 Periodic Maintenance
5.2.1 Asphaltic                    2.1        2.7            3.6               6.5
5.2.2 Re-gravelling                0.2        0.5             1.0              1.6
Totals                   4.2        5.6            7.5               11.7
Note: Figures for costs and km are rounded
-25 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
NICARAGUA: Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Local  Foreign        ~Total
_rjc Cos By4 Cobpnn                              SSilo           S$lho           S$il
0.00
1. Main Roads Rehabilitation                                       11.30           25.10           36.40
2. Rural Transport Improvement                                       8.90          16.10           25.00
3. Road Maintenance Program                                                                         0.00
Periodic                                                        1.20           2.80            4.00
Routine (microenterprises)                                      3.20           0.80            4.00
RMF works                                                       0.80            1.70           2.50
4. TA, Cons. Svcs, Training & Studies                                0.70            5.70           6.40
Total Baseline Cost                                                26.10           52.20           78.30
Physical Contingencies                                              1.40           2.90            4.30
Price Contingencies                                                3.20            1.60            4.80
Total Project Costs                   30.70           56.70           87.40
Total Financing Required                    30.70           56.70           87.40
Identifiable taxes and duties are O (US$m) and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 87.4 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 85.81% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 26 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
NICARAGUA: Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Background,
1.    The project includes components for the improvement of main and rural roads, routine and periodic
maintenance, and institutional strengthening that separately and collectively will provide a wide range of
benefits to Nicaragua. Using standard Bank analytical models, the quantifiable economic benefits for the
main and rural roads have been analyzed individually and are outlined herein. The maintenance component
represents the continued implementation of the priority routine and periodic maintenance program that was
developed and justified under the First and Second projects using the HDM model. Overall, project support
for improved planning and programming procedures, increased private contractor participation, more
appropriate design standards (especially the provision of adequate road shoulders), and for according a
higher priority to maintenance will help to ensure a more effective use of public expenditures in the road
sub-sector and to meet the CAS objectives. Furthermore, the institutional support should help to ensure the
improvements can be sustained and that the MTI will be better positioned to face the challenges of
modernization.
Main Roads
2.     The specific subprojects to be financed were selected from the road restoration program that was
presented to the Donors at the post-Mitch (1999) Stockholm conference. The two trunk roads selected are
of significant economic importance to both Nicaraguan and to Central American commerce. The Managua
- Izapa link is the most heavily trafficked section of the Natural Corridor trunk road route to Honduras at
Guasaule and is a key international transit artery, especially for coffee exports from Nicaragua. The
Muhan - el Rama section is the final link in the badly deteriorated road from Managua to the port at El
Rama, which is Nicaragua's only functional link to its principal Atlantic export destinations. Detailed
feasibility studies were carried out (using the HDM3) to verify the economic justification of each of these
links and copies of these studies are in the Project Files. However, using the Managua - Izapa link, key
elements of the rationale, main assumptions and methodology for the economic justification for these
investments are illustrated herein.
Main Assumptions:
Traffic
3.    The traffic volumes on the Managua - Izapa link have been estimated on the basis of counts
undertaken annually by MTI that were supplemented by a 7 day, 24 hour traffic count carried out recently
by the design consultants. This additional count was undertaken to help supplement the records and to
classify more accurately the vehicles currently using the road, which are mostly trucks and utility vehicles
(58%) Analysis of the data indicated an annual traffic growth rate of about 6 % throughout the route. The
current traffic volume was estimated to range from upwards of 7000 vehicles per day (vpd) close to
Managua and about 3400 vpd for most of the remainder of the link. The estimate of future traffic volumes
is based conservatively on continued growth of 6% per annum, following project completion. This is in
keeping also with the expected growth of GDP and the economic activities that are likely to follow the road
improvement. The actual and forecast traffic levels by road section and by vehicle type are detailed in the
- 27 -



Feasibility Study included in the Project File.
Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.     The benefits from the road improvements can be quantified as they consist largely of vehicle
operating costs (voc) savings accruing to road users. The voc were derived from recent MTI information
on operating costs for typical vehicles on roads in both good and poor conditions in Nicaragua, after
adjusting for taxes and duties. The voc savings vary by vehicle type from 39% (for pickups) to 50% (for
large trucks), which is not unusual given that the road will be improved considerably under the project.
Details on the voc savings by road section and vehicle type are included in the Feasibility studies in the
Project File. It should be noted that another quantifiable benefit that will accrue would be the savings in
travel time as the improved road surface will allow higher operating speeds. These have been quantified and
included in the benefit stream.
5.    There will also be other benefits accruing from the completion of the project. These include (i)
potential long term improvements in the management of the road network due partly to an increased
awareness of the role of maintenance; (ii) improved access for rural populations to health, education, and
other services; (iii) improved access to markets and services for agricultural producers; and (iv) significant
improvements in road safety. The latter is particularly true for sections of the Muhan - El Rama road that
have deteriorated severely enough to produce hazardous driving conditions. The road improvement works
will also create employment for about 1100 workers over a 36 month period.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Economic Returns.
6.     The economic rate of return for the Managua - Izapa road  was estimated at 33.4%.  As
discussed above, the ERR estimate is based primarily on the quantifiable, vehicle related costs and benefit
streams associated with the road improvement. The detailed derivation of costs and benefit streams is
included in the feasibility studies but a summary abstract of the ERR and NPV determination and the
sensitivity analysis is included in the table overleaf.  Adequate routine and periodic maintenance
expenditures were included in the ERR and NPV determinations. Sensitivity analyses, ranging between a
20% decrease in benefits or increase in costs, provide an ERR range of 27.9% to 26.8%. The switching
values on costs and on benefits are quite robust at 164% and 62% respectively. Using the same
methodology, the rate of return for the other main road link was estimated at 23.9%.
- 28 -



The following table summarizes the economic evaluation of the two trunk road sections.
Managua - Mateare - Izapa                                    Muhan - El Rama
Las Piedrecitas - La Refineria -    Km 13.4 -    Nagarote-          Muhan -        La Gateada -   Esperanza -
Km 11         Km 13.4        Nagarote          Izapa          La Gateada        Esperanza      El Rama
Population          400,000        300,000         150,000          50,000           20,000            15,000         17,000
Length (km)             4.2           4.8            27.6             25.8              20              61.3            8.9
Economic
Costs/ km              400            400             165             165               150              95             92
(US$ '000)                      i              I                I
ERR (%)                20              27             36               37               20               25             25
B/C Ratio @            1.8            2.6             3.4              3.2
12%                                                                                     1.5              2.0           2.0
Existing/prior surface type: Asphalt
Condition        Fair/Poor      Fair/Poor       Fair/Poor       Fair/Poor           Poor          Very Poor      Very Poor
IRI                 5               5              6                6                9                10             10
Traffic Range:
Existing            7012           12142           4207             3284              543             412            463
ADT                                                                                             _
Slow
moving                2444           2046            1486             1331              193              170            168
vehicles
NPV (US$mil)  (@,12%:            _              _                                _
Based on             0.6            2.0             6.1              5.4              0.8              3.7            0.5
VOC
Including            0.9            2.4             7.5              6.7              2.0              6.6            0.8
time                                                     .
Sensitivity Analysis:
ERR  / NPV    ERR  /NPV   ERR   /NPV           ERR   / NPV   ERR   /NPV          ERR  / NPV   ERR  /NPV
(%)   I ($mil) (%)  I ($mil) (Ye)   / ($mil)  (%)    I ($mil)  (%)   I (Smil)   (%)  I ($mil)  (%)  / ($mil)
Base Case        20.3      0.9  27.4    2.4  36.2          7.5  37.7        6.7  20.0        2.0   25.0     6.6   25.0   0.8
Costs +20%        16.8     0.6  23.7    2.1  30.8          6.9  31.7        5.9  17.6        1.2  21.1      5.5   21.8   0.5
Benefits -20%   16.7       0.5  23.4    1.6  30.6          5.5  31.6        4.9  17.6        1.4  23.8      4.9   21.7    0.6
Excl. Time        17.8     0.6  25.4      2.0  32.1        6.1  32.7        5.4  14.4         0.8  19.6      3.7   17.9   0.5
Switching
values                  60            160             230             235               65               112            98
- costs (%)
- benefits (%)        42             69              80               80               48               65             50
- 29 -



Rural Roads
7.     The other major civil works component is for the improvement or stabilization of rural (secondary
or tertiary) roads. This component focuses on complementary linkages to the main roads that are
themselves important to the needs of poor rural communities and to the restoration of efficient transport
links. Usually about 60-70% of the journey time for a typical trip by residents of poor communities takes
place along these rural roads. The inadequate supply and poor quality of most rural roads is well
documented in Nicaragua. According to the 1999 LSMS survey, overall, a little over one-fifth (22.3%) of
Nicaraguan households have access to a paved road; however the same survey indicated that the proportion
dropped to 6% in the case of poor households in rural areas. Hence economic growth and poverty
alleviation objectives would be difficult to attain without qualitative improvements in rural roads.
8.     Nicaragua's  rural secondary and tertiary road networks were particularly hard hit by Hurricane
Mitch and their improvement forms an essential component to the restoration of transport services,
particularly in rural areas.    The target roads for IDA assistance are located primarily in zones of
potentially good agricultural production that were not included in other Donor's program. They were
chosen on the basis of a positive NPV at 12%, the populations and areas served, and the need to ensure
connectivity with other rural and main roads. Traffic levels on these roads are in the <400 vpd range.
Of the total roads analyzed (950km), about 250 km of the more heavily trafficked segments will be
stabilized using adoquines which is a technique for deploying small cement blocks that is highly labor
intensive and is used frequently in Nicaragua and other neighboring countries.
9.     The definition and the economic evaluation of the rural roads programn was done applying the
Roads Economic Decisions model (RED), developed by the World Bank for the Africa Road Management
Initiative, which adopts the consumer surplus approach to estimate project benefits that are comprised of
road user costs savings. RED evaluates net benefits of project-alternatives, that are characterized by the
average level of service provided over the evaluation period, estimating vehicle operating costs and travel
time cost using HDM3 relationships. The table below shows the typical vehicle operating costs estimated
for seven vehicle types.
Vehicle Operating Costs (US$/km)
Rough-                                             Light     Medium       Heavy      Articulated
ness           Car      Pickup         Bus       Truck       Truck        Truck      Truck
(IRI #)
2            0.13        0.14        0.39        0.22        0.36         0.59          0.68
4            0.14        0.15        0.40        0.23        0.37         0.61          0.70
6            0.16        0.16        0.42        0.25        0.41         0.66          0.74
8            0.18        0.19        0.45        0.28        0.45         0.70          0.80
10           0.21        0.22         0.49        0.30        0.49        0.76          0.88
12           0.24        0.25         0.54        0.33        0.54        0.82          0.96
14           0.28        0.28         0.61        0.36        0.59        0.88          1.05
16           0.31        0.32         0.68        0.39        0.64        0.94           1.13
- 30 -



18            0.34         0.35        0.76         0.42         0.70         1.01           1.22
20            0.37         0.38         0.85        0.46         0.75         1.08           1.31
10.    A rural roads maintenance and improvement program was defined for Region 1, comprising the
Departments of Esteli, Madriz and Nueva Segovia, because this region is one of the poorest of the country
but has significant agricultural potential. The 2000 Nicaragua Poverty Map and the World Bank's Poverty
Assessment (Report No. 20488-NI of June 2000) indicate that on Region 1, 67% of the population is poor
and 31% is extreme poor, as compared with the rest of the country where 50% of the population is poor
and 20% is extreme poor. The table below shows population poverty indicators by Department.
Poor                   Extreme Poor
Total
Department                Population    Population        (%)     Population         (%)
Madriz                      107130         79965         75%          39695          37%
Nueva Segovia                161742        116988         72%         55151          34%
Esteli                      173500         98288         57%          40636         23%
Region I Total              442372        295241         67%         135482          31%
Jinotega                    242003         176091        73%          89533          37%
RAAN                         181372        131395         72%         79173          44%
Rio San Juan                 69804         49882          71%         25369          36%
Boaco                       136656         93174          68%         44787          33%
Matagalpa                   382342        259586         68%         121852          32%
RAAS                        270323        177884         66%          83109          31%
Chontales                    143465        89597          62%         42253          29%
Rivas                        139746        81646          58%         28427          20%
Chinandega                  348557        200311          57%         72924          21%
Leon                        336011         181914         54%         63736          19%
Granada                      154501        79061          51%         26203          17%
Carazo                       148629        72900         49%          23047          16%
Masaya                      240985         117033        49%          34482          14%
Managua                     1088514       219578         20%          39194          4%
Other Regions Total        3882908       1930052          50%        774089          20%
Country Total              4325280       2225293          51%        909571         21%
11.    Road inventory and traffic data was obtained from the Pavement Management System (PMS)
maintained by the MTI, and the Region I road network was divided into 107 homogenous sections, totaling
884 km (Esteli 379 km, Madriz 187 km and Nueva Segovia 318 km). The condition of each section was
defined by visiting each municipality and obtaining from local engineers an assessment of the condition of
each section in terms of four possible levels of maintenance/rehabilitation needs, as follows: a) good
condition roads defined as roads that need only routine maintenance, b) fair condition roads defined as
- 31 -



roads that need heavy gradings with scarificatiop, c) poor condition roads defined as roads that need heavy
gradings with scarification plus spot regravelling, and d) very poor condition roads defined as roads that
need stabilization, including regravelling. The table below shows the resulting network distribution by
traffic and road condition.
Region I Rural Road Network - Condition and Traffic (by km)
Road Condition
Traffic                    Good           Fair           Poor         Very Poor     Total     Percent
km
25 AADT                      40            54             60                77       231         26%
50AADT                       12            81             71                67       231        26%
100 AADT                     32             7             73                86       197        22%
200 AADT                     74            15             39                26       155         18%
300 AADT                      0             0              4                55        60          7%
>300AADT                      0             0               0               11         11         1%
Total km                    158           156            248               322       884        100%
Percent                     18%          18%             28%              36%       100%
12.    The staff of the municipalities were also consulted on their perceived priority for road works. Each
municipality was asked to separate the homogenous sections, located in the respective municipality, into
three groups by order of perceived priority (high, medium, or low) when using its own criteria. The
somewhat subjective priorities given by the municipalities were collected in order to compare them
subsequently with the priorities provided by the economic evaluation and to help establish compatibility
with the view of the municipalities. The table below shows the resulting network distribution by priorities
given by the Municipalities.
Region I Road Network- Perceived Priority (km)
Priority Given by Municipalities
Traffic                             High           Medium                Low    Total km      Percent
25 AADT                               78                70                83         231         26%
50 AADT                              115                80                36         231         26%
100 AADT                              83                74                41         197        22%
200 AADT                              66                 7                82         155         18%
300 AADT                              32                28                            60          7%
>300AADT                              11                                              11          1%
Total km                             384               258               242         884        100%
Percent                             43%               29%                27%       100%
13.    The 107 homogenous sections were evaluated by means of the evaluating representative road
- 32 -



classes as a function of traffic (7 levels), road condition (4 levels), geometry (3 types) and road width (3
types). The table below shows the project-alternatives considered and typical unit costs for a 6.0 m wide
road stabilization.
I Rehabilitation and Improvement Typical Costs - 6.0 m Wide Road
Project-Alternative                                            $/km    $/m2
Grading with scarification                                     2400      0.4
Grading with scarification and spot regravelling               6600      1.1
Regravelling (15 cm)                                           7800      1.3
Adoquine stabilization on a road in:
(i) good condition                                    84000     14.0
(ii) fair condition                                   86400     14.4
(iii) poor condition                                  90600      15.1
(iv) very poor condition                              91800      15.3
Bituminous surface treatment (paving)                        180000     30.0
14.    The roughness of the existing roads was estimated to vary from 10 IRI (good condition) to 20 IRI
(very poor condition), the roughness of adoquine (cement block -CB) stabilized roads was measured in
the field and varies from 4 to 5 IRI, and the roughness of surface treated paved roads was set to 3.5 IRI.
The corresponding routine maintenance expenditures needed annually for a road to be kept in good
condition were also estimated to be around $500/km for adoquines, $2,000/km for gravel roads, and
$4,000/km for paved roads. The economic evaluation was done considering an evaluation period of 10
years, a discount rate of 12% and a traffic growth rate of 4%.
15.    Using the RED model, each road class was evaluated, and from the comparison of the net present
value (NPV) and investment costs of the project alternatives, a recommended option was defined for each
road class. The tables below shows the reconimended options, with a positive NPV @12%, for roads on
flat to rolling terrain and 4.0 or 6.0 m wide.
Recommended Project-Alternative
Road Condition
Traffic                       Good                 Fair                 Poor              Very Poor
25 AADT
50 AADT                                                                GRA2                 REG
100 AADT                                          GRAI                 CB 4                 CB 4
200 AADT                       CB14                CB 6                CB 6                 CB 6
300 AADT                      CB 4                 CB 6                CB 6                 CB 6
> 300 AADT                     CB 6                CB 6                 CB 6                CB 6
- 33 -



16.    Based on the recommended project-alternative results per road class, the recommended option for
each homogenous section was determined, the corresponding economic indicators were estimated, and the
sections were sorted, by economic priority, by decreasing NPV per investment ratio. The table below shows
the network summary results for the entire 884km.
Length            Vehicle-km          Investment            NPV
Department             (KIm)            (M veh-km)             (Ms)                (M$)
Esteli             378.7      43%       12.7      38%       10.8      38%       12.3     42%
Madriz             187.1      21%        5.4      16%        5.7     20%         2.2      7%
N. Segovia         318.2      36%       15.1      46%       12.1     42%        14.9      51%
Total              884.0                33.2                28.6                29.3
17.    Given the funding limitations, about 390 km of the highest priority roads, in terms of NPV/km
rankings, were selected from the complete network evaluation listed above. The economic analysis
allocated 96% of the budget to adoquine stabilization and 4% to rehabilitating gravel roads with empedrado
(stone surfaces) or regravelling. The NPV of the program is 28.3 million dollars, the IRR is 46% and all
road works are economically justified with a positive NPV at 12% discount rate. The table below presents
the recommended program by Department and economic priority. It should be noted also that the
recommendations of the economic analysis coincided largely with the priority rankings for the road sections
as provided by the Municipalities.
- 34 -



Region 1 Road Network - Economic Evaluation of priority links
Pavement Management System Data                                    Poor        Economic Evaluation
Municip.       Section                              Length    Traffic     Con-     (/)    Road    Inv.          NPV      IRR
(km)     AADT       dition              Wor    (M$)    (M$)
k
Department: Madriz
Somoto         Emp. El Cairo - Icalupe               17.5       59         V         65      REG      0.11      0.37    83%
Poor
Cusmapa        Lim. Mcpal Las Sab. -                 4.8        44        Poor       84      GRA      0.03      0.03    42%
CusmapalCusmapa                                                              2
L. Sab.        Las Sabanas/Lim. Mcpal Las Sab. -     8.6        44        Poor       80      GRA      0.05      0.06    42%
Cusmapa                                                                      2
Somoto         Fin Zona U. Somto/Lim. Mcpal Som      6.2        104        V         65      CB 4      0.38     0.31    32%
- Sn Lucas                                                Poor
Telpaneca      Lim. Dptal Nva Segovia -              9.0        120        V         80      CB 4     0.55      0.41    31%
Madriz,Telpaneca                                          Poor
Palacagui.     Palacaguina/Sta Rosa                  4.4        154       Poor       69      CB 6      0.40     0.18    24%
Telpaneca      Lim. Mcpal Pal.. - Telp./Inic. Zona   12.3       158       Poor       80      CB 6      1.11     0.47    23%
Urb. Telp.
Telpaneca      Inic. Zona Urb. Telpaneca/Fin Z.       1.0       158       Poor       80      CB 6      0.09     0.04    23%
Urb. Telp.                                                                 I                 I
L. Sab.        Lim. Mcpal Sn Lucas - Las Sab./Las    3.8        90        Poor       80      CB 4      0.23     0.06    19%
Sabanas
Sn Lucas       Lim. McpalSomoto-SnLucas/Sn           2.0        104       Poor       83      CB4       0.12     0.03     19%
[ pas L 1Luca
Sn Lucas       SnLucaslLim.McpalSnLucas-             8.6        90     |  Poor       83      CB4      0.52      0.13    19%
}          } ~~~Las Sabanas                           
Palacagui.     FinZ. Urb. Palacaguina/Emp.            1.9       158       Fair       69      CB 6      0.16     0.01     13%
t         ~~~Tamarindo                            
Palacagui.     Emp. Tamarindo/Lim. Mcpal             6.2        158       Fair       69      CB 6      0.54     0.02    13%
Palacaguiina - Telp.
Department: Nueva Segovia
Mozonte        Mozonte/Lim.McpalMozonte-Sn           3.0        738        V         81      CB 6     0.27       1.88    154
Femando                                                   Poor                                            %
Sn Fernad.     Lim. Mcpal Mozonte - Sn               5.4        738        V         69      CB 6     0.49      3.40     154
Fem./Emp.Ciud.Ant.                                        Poor                                            %
SnFernad.      Emp.Ciud.Antigua/lnic. Z.U.Sn          1.4       738        V         69      CB 6     0.13      0.89     154
Femando                                                   Poor                                            %
Sn Femad.      Inic. Z.U.Sn Femando/Fin Z. U.Sn       1.0       738        V         69      CB 6      0.09     0.63     154
Femando                                                   Poor                                            %
Quilali        Monte Cristo/Quilali                  20.6       55         V         79      REG       0.11     0.48     106
Poor                                            %
| Quilali    | Las Cruces/Inic. Z. Urb. Quilali      7.1        128   |  Fair  |   79    | GRA        0.01      0.05    85%
- 35 -



Sn Fernad.     Fin Z. U.Sn Femando/Sta Clara        7.8       288        V        69      CB 6    0.71       1.46    59%
Poor
Sn Fernad.     Sta Clara/Emp. Susucayan             2.3       288        V        69      CB 6    0.21       0.43    59%
Poor
Macuelizo      Lim. Mcpal Ocotal -                 12.1       55       Poor       84      GRA      0.07      0.08    41%
Macuelizo/Macuelizo                                                        2
Macuelizo      Macuelizo/Ococona                   11.2       50       Poor       84      GRA      0.06      0.08    41%
2
Macuelizo      Ococona/Lim. Mcpal Macuelizo -       8.0       50       Poor       84      GRA      0.04      0.06    41%
Sta Maria                                                                 2
Ocotal         Ocotal/Lim. Mcpal Ocotal -           5.4       55       Poor       53      GRA      0.03      0.04    41%
Macuelizo                                                                  2
Sta Maria      Lim. Mcpal Macuelizo - Sta          11.3       50       Poor       85      GRA      0.06      0.08    41%
Maria/Sta Maria                                                            2
Jalapa         Fin Z. Urb.Jalapa/Teotecacinte      15.4       167        V        71      CB 6     1.41      1.57    39%
Poor
Sn Fernad.     Emp. Susucayan/Lim. Mcpal Sn        11.0       200       V         69      CB 6     1.01      1.12    39%
Fern. - Jalapa                                          Poor
Jalapa         Jalapa/Monte Frio                   10.7       97         V        71      CB 4     0.65      0.52    32%
Poor
Ciudad Ant.    El Arrayan/Ciudad Antigua            5.2       120       V         81      CB 4    0.32       0.24    31%
Poor
Ciudad Ant.    Ciud. Ant./Limite Depart. (Nva.     12.0       120       V         81      CB 4    0.73       0.55    31%
Seg. - Madriz)                                          Poor
Jalapa         Lim. Mcpal Sn Fernando -             9.2       200      Poor       71      CB 6    0.83       0.39    24%
Jalapa/Emp. El Jicaro
Jalapa         Emp. El Jicaro/ilnic. Z. Urb. Jalapa  9.3      200      Poor       71      CB 6    0.84       0.39    24%
Jalapa         Inic. Z. Urb. Jalapa/Fin Z.          3.1       200      Poor       71      CB 6    0.28       0.13    24%
Urb.Jalapa
Department: Esteli
Esteli         Llano Largo/Sacacli                  8.6       73         V        45      REG      0.06      0.19    86%
Poor
La Trinidad    La Trinidad/Llano Largo             20.0       73        V         61      REG      0.13      0.45    86%
Poor
Esteli         Emp. Isidrillo/Llanos De Colon      17.2       254       V         45      CB 6     1.58      3.22    59%
Poor
Esteli         Int. Nic-lEmp.                      28.1       314        V        45      CB 6    2.58       5.25    59%
Miraflores/Esc.Miraflores                               Poor
Esteli         Esc. Miraflores/Lim. Dptal Esteli -  2.8       51       Poor       45      GRA      0.01      0.02    56%
Jinotega                                                                   2
Esteli         Emp.Regad./Lim. Mcpal Est. - Sn      7.2       72       Poor       45      GRA      0.03      0.06    54%
Juan de Limay                                                              2
Esteli         Int. Nic- I/Emp. Sta Clara           1.9       254      Poor       45      CB 6    0.17       0.19    39%
Esteli         Emp. Sta Clara/Emp. Isidrillo        2.5       254      Poor       45      CB 6    0.23       0.25    39%
Esteli         Llanos De Colon/Lim. Dptal Esteli -  1.8       90         V        45      CB 4     0.11      0.09    32%
Jinotega                                                Poor
- 36 -



Condega     El Tule/Condega               27.9    131       V      69    CB 4    1.70    1.34   32%
Poor
Esteli      Sta Cruz/Lim. Mcpal Esteli - Sn  5.4   129      V      45    CB 4   0.33    0.25   31%
Nicolas                                       Poor
SnNicolas    Lim. Mcpal Esteli - SnNicolas/Sn  7.5  129     V       83    CB 4   0.46    0.34   31%
Nicolas                                       Poor             _
Totals                              389.5                             _    20.03    28.2  46%
18.    If the investment costs increase by 20 percent, the NPV reduces to 24.8 million dollars and the IRR
to 37%. If benefits decrease by 20 percent, the NPV reduces to 19.2 million dollars and the IRR to 36%. If
the investment costs increase by 20 percent and benefits decrease by 20%, the NPV reduces to 15.8 million
dollars and the IRR to 29%. To yield a NPV equal to zero, investment costs would have to be multiplied
by 2.7 or benefits multiplied by 0.4. Events that are highly unlikely, therefore, the program economic
justification is robust.
19.    The project will include also the stabilization with adoquines of selected secondary links on a pilot
basis outside of Region I. They are to be included so as to help restore transportation facilities in other
hurricane damaged areas. The selected links are important also for their importance to agriculture
production, tourism and access to basic services and have been assigned a high priority by the respective
municipalities. A preliminary analysis has been completed for the sections identified which all have a
positive NPV@12%:
Dept/ Link                       Length (km)                          IRR (%)
Masya: Masaya -Las Flores                         5                                 30
Rivas: (i) Ometepe                                10                                37
(ii) Sopoa - Cardenas                     10                                25
Jinotega: Jinotega - Valle los                    8                                 26
Tej eras
RAAS: Corn Island                                 10                                40
RAAN: Puerto Cabezas - Waspan                     15                                38
Total                              58                                 22
Risks:
20.    The project is not subject to unusual risks with respect to its implementation and the use of
consultants and contractors with adequate experience will help to minimize the risks. Road maintenance
budgets are adequate for the needs of the portion of the network in good and fair condition, and the
assistance to be provided under the project in the planning and privatization of road maintenance will help
to protect the road investments and also foster a more efficient use of resources.    As for the
microenterprises, given IDA experience in other countries, their management and operational requirements
are now well known and MTI has adequate mechanisms in place to minimize the risks. Overall, the
continued IDA dialogue and the TA to be provided under the project will help also to reduce project
implementation risks.
Distributional Impacts:
21.    Due to the main road rehabilitation, the country as a whole will benefit from the reduced vehicle
operating costs and consumption of imported fuel and spare parts. Geographically, residents of the project
areas will benefit from the employment opportunities that will be generated for skilled and unskilled labor
- 37 -



during implementation. The beneficiaries of the rural road improvements will include the predominantly
poor rural communities living in scattered villages along the road. Most studies indicate that the income
levels of these communities are typically below national averages. Finally, lower transport costs and easier
access by tourists should provide an impetus for increased economic activities countrywide.
Fiscal Impacts.
22.    These will be very modest and well within normal budget parameters. The project's budgetary
investment needs are modest and represents a modest share of Govemment annual capital expenditures (<
4%).  Similarly, the future maintenance needs will not represent a fiscal burden.   This is because
Nicaragua collects revenues from the license fees, fuel taxes, etc. paid by road users that are many fold the
annual expenditures on the road network, and is also setting up a road maintenance fund. Hence there are
adequate sources of funds for the maintenance needs of the roads to be rehabilitated or stabilized under the
project.
- 38 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
NICARAGUA: Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Years Ending
Bank Fiscal Years
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD.
Year 1          Year       3     Year4       Year 5     Yea        Year 7
Total Fnin   g Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             8.1       25.2       29.7        21.0        3.4         0.0       0.0
RecurrentCosts               0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs            8.1       25.2        29.7       21.0        3.4         0.0       0.0
Total Financing                0.1       25.2        29.7       21.0        3.4         0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                    7.0        22.0       25.0        18.0        3.0       0.0        0.0
Government                  1.1         3.2        4.7        3.0         0.4       0.0        0.0
Central                  0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial               0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers               0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Others                      0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Total Project Financing       8.1       25.2        29.7       21.0        3.4        0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Timely availability of Govemrnent budgetary allocations.
- 39 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
NICARAGUA: Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Procurement
A procurement capacity assessment was carried out for the project by a specialist
approved by the Regional Procurement Adviser (RPA) and the resulting report was
discussed and approved by the RPA. In sum the assessment concluded that procurement
was managed reasonably well by the MTI and no major issues emerged. For the
purposes of the proposed project, the existing TST will be responsible for procurement
and has prepared a satisfactory procurement plan. The TST has demonstrated adequate
capacity to carryout this function efficiently under the previous projects. The TST staff
would ensure quality control of all procurement processes, effectively liaise with the IDA,
organize and maintain procurement records, and would be responsible for project
accounting, financial reporting and compliance with audit requirements.
Procurement methods (see Table A): Procurement for works and goods will follow the"
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995
(and  revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999).
Procurement of consultant services will follow the "Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", dated January 1997 and revised
September 1997. Standard bidding Documents (SBD) will be used for all Bank financed
procurement.
International competitive bidding (ICB) will be used for works contracts of
US$1.5 million or more under the Muhan - El Rama and Managua - Izapa road
rehabilitation components. It will be the responsibility of the TST to complete satisfactory
pre-qualification procedures for the selection of contractors for these two major road
rehabilitation components. For contracts between US$1.5-0.25 million covering road
maintenance and rural roads stabilization, national competitive bidding will be used, up to
an aggregate of US$27 million. These will be for mostly labor intensive works to be
implemented by local contractors and also due to the dispersed nature of the work sites it
may not be feasible to group these contracts which should average just under about
US$0.8 million each. The smaller road maintenance and rural road stabilization works,
estimated to cost less than US$250,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of
US$6.0 million may be procured under lumpsum contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three domestic contractors. Routine road maintenance works
estimated to cost less than US$150,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of
US$4.5 million may be done through direct contracting with community organizations
and microenterprises following special procedures outlined in paragraph 3.7 of the
Guidelines and on the basis of reference unit prices and standardized quantities. This
procurement modality is a continuation of the one in place under the Second Road
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Cr.3085-NI) which allows for the (i)
participation of local communities in the direct implementation of small works; (ii)
formation of maintenance microenterprises; and (iii) development of local contractors.
Goods, equipment and materials under the project with a cost per contract of US 150,000
or more will be procured using ICB; individual contracts costing between US$25,000 and
US$150,000 will be procured under NCB rules, up to an aggregate of US$200,000; and
-40 -



for individual contracts below US$25,000 national and international shopping procedures
based on three quotations will be used, up to an aggregate of US$500,000.
Consultants' services will be procured under contracts awarded under QCBS and
other selection methods indicated in table Al. Consultants services for performance
audits and project technical support services, engineering design and supervision of
selected links (about 80km) in the rural roads program, and the strengthening of contract
management, not expected to exceed US$1.6 million, can be procured under least cost
selection procedures in keeping with paragraph 3.6 of the Guidelines. Other small
contracts for promoting and establishing the RMF, maintenance planning, reforestation
program, social analyses and for assistance to the TST that are expected to cost less than
US$100,000 each will be selected on the basis of consultants qualifications in keeping
with paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants
selected in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the Consultants
Guidelines; these are not expected to exceed US$500,000.
The shortlist of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$200,000
per contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
The proposed thresholds for prior review by the Bank are based on the
procurement assessment and are summarized in table B. The aggregates notwithstanding,
actual selection methods shall be decided on the basis of the semi-annual procurement
plans to be prepared by the TST and that will be reviewed and approved by the IDA.
Retroactive financing for all components of the project, not to exceed
US$500,000 would be provided for expenditures incurred between November 1, 2000
and the date of the Credit Agreement. This is considered necessary for MTI to be able to
adhere to the project's implementation schedule.
-41 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category             IcB            NCB            Other          N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                             40.40          27.00           10.50           0.00          77.90
(34.40)        (22.90)         (8.60)          (0.00)        (65.90)
2. Goods                             0.00            0.50           0.40            0.00           0.90
(0.00)         (0.50)          (0.40)         (0.00)         (0.90)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00           8.60            0.00           8.60
(0.00)         (0.00)          (8.20)         (0.00)         (8.20)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                             40.40          27.50           19.50           0.00          87.40
(34.40)        (23.40)         (17.20)         (0.00)        (75.00)
t' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 42 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                   Selection   Method
Services
Expenditure     QoCBS      QBS        SFB       LCS        CQ        Other     N.B.F.  Total Cost
Category     _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _                        _  _ _ _
A. Firms            5.70       0.00      0.00       1.60      0.00      0.00       0.00       7.30
(5.30)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.60)    (0.00)      (0.00)    (0.00)    (6.90)
B. Individuals      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.80      0.50       0.00       1.30
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.80)      (0.50)    (0.00)    (1.30)
Total   5.70      0.00       0.00      1.60       0.80      0.50       0.00      8.60
(5.30)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.60)    (0.80)    (0.50)    (0.00)    (8.20)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 43 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                 Contracts Subject to
Threshold              PoueetPirRview
ExpenditureCategory       (US$ thousands)             Metfod                 (us$ millions)
1. Works                        >1500                     ICB                      All
<1500                    NCB                       All
<250               Three quotations          First 2 contracts
<150               Direct contracting             All
2. Goods                        >150                     1CB                  All documents
25-150                   NCB                 First 2 contracts
>25               Prudent Shopping          First 2 contracts
3. Services
Firms:                 >100                     QCBS                 All documents
<100                  QCBS-CQ                     ,.l
Individuals:            >50                      CQ                        ,.l
<50                     Other                    fil
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  $60 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-44 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Financial Management:  The required financial management assessment per OP/BP
10.02 has been carried out by an accredited financial management consultant under the supervision
of a LAC Senior Financial Management Specialist. The results of the assessment indicated that
the TST has a system that meets minimum IDA financial management requirements under
traditional disbursement procedures. The strengths of the existing capacity in this regard have been
recognized in the assessment. However, the system does not have the capacity to generate Project
Management Reports (PMR). Hence areas subject to improvement have been identified in the
assessment and the corresponding action plan (included in the Project Files) addressing the
necessary steps to be taken has been agreed with project management. The project should become
eligible for PMR-based disbursements by December 2001 but this modality is not likely to be used.
Allocation of loan proceeds: (see Table C). The credit should be disbursed
completely by December 31, 2005.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs). Disbursements under the project will be
made against full documentation of expenditure except for the following items, for which
disbursements would be on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs): (i)
maintenance works contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent, except
for the first two contracts; (ii) goods, including construction materials, training materials,
office equipment, and supplies, estimated to cost less than US$150,000, except for the first
two contracts; (iii) consultants contracts, estimated to cost less than US$100,000
equivalent for firms and US$50,000 for individuals; and (iv) all training.  The
expenditures to be disbursed in respect of the, microenterprise, community organization,
and RMF part of the training will include the costs of fuel, oil, and spares for vehicles, and
also other costs incurred by MTI in establishing and supporting them. Similarly, the
promoters' fees, per diem, training facilities rentals and the printing of training materials
will also be eligible expenditures for reimbursement on the basis of SOEs. SOE records
would be made available to IDA staff as required for inspection during supervision.
Special account:   A special account with an authorized allocation  of up to
US$5.5 million, corresponding to about 4 months of expenditures will be opened in the
Central Bank or a commercial Bank acceptable to IDA. The initial deposit will be US$2.0
million equivalent. This account will be maintained by MTI. The Special Account would
be used for all eligible foreign and local expenditures.  Replenishments to the Special
Account would be made on a monthly basis or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has
been used, whichever occurs first.
Project accounts will be maintained by the TST in accordance with accounting
practices satisfactory to the IDA, as required by the Financial Accounting, Reporting and
Auditing Handbook (FARAH). An annual audit report of project accounts, and a separate
opinion with respect to the SOEs or PMRs as the case may be, and of the Special Account
will be prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the IDA, and in accordance with
the (i) Guidelines and Terms of Reference for audits of projects with financing by the
World Bank in the Latin America and Caribbean Region, and (ii) FARAH. The audit
report will also include a management letter concerning the MTI's internal controls, and
- 45 -



will be submitted to the IDA no more than six months after the end of each fiscal year of
the Borrower.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
E           C4 yxpeitueCtegory  Amount I US$ition          Financing Percentage
1. Road Rehabilitation:
(a) Managua - Izapa                      17.00                          85
(b) Muhan - El Rama                      14.00                          85
2. Rural Transport Improvement              21.20                          85
3. Road Maintenance
(a) Periodic                            4.00                           85
(b) Routine (Microenterprises)          4.00                           80
(c) RMF Works                           2.50                           85
4. Goods and materials                      0.90                          85 (L)
100(F)
5. TA, Studies, Consultants sv'cs           6.10                           100
6. Training
(a) MTI & RMF Staff                     0.30                           100
(b) Microenterprises                    0.50                           80
7. Unallocated                              4.50
Total Project Costs                         75.00
Total                                       75.00
- 46 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
NICARAGUA: Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Project Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)              10/11/99                     10/11/99
Appraisal mission departure                      11/30/2000                   12/01/2000
Negotiations                                     12/12/2000                   12/12/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    04/04/2001
Prepared by:
Emmanuel A. James
Preparation assistance:
Carmelo Cuellar
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Emmanuel A. James                 Task Manager
Juan D. Quintero                  Environmental Analysis
Elena Correa                      Social Assessment
Livio Pino                        Financial Management
Roque Ardon                       Financial Management
Rodrigo Archondo-Callao           Economic Evaluation
Michael Fowler                    Disbursements
Martha Molares-Halberg            Legal Aspects
Jose M. Alonso-Biarge             Peer Reviewer
George Tharakan                   Peer Reviewer
- 47 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
NICARAGUA: Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Manual de Operaciones del Tercer Convenio de Credito, MTI, 20 de Octubre del 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement, 11 August 2000
2. Financial Management Assessment, Nov 3, 2000
3. Evaluacion Tecnico - Econ6mica de los Caminos no Pavimentados de los Departamentos de Esteli,
Madriz, y Nueva Segovia; Septiembre 2000
C. Other
1. Estudio de factibilidad de la Rehabilitaci6n de la Carretera Managua - El Rama; Consultores Carl Bro
Intemacional en asociaci6n con Cisconco Ingeneiros Consultores, enero 1997
2. Estudio de Factibildad Tecnico- Econ6mica de la Rehabilitaci6n del tramo Managua - Izapa;
Consultores LAVIAL S.A, Julio 2000
3. Evaluaci6n Socio -Ambiental para (i) Managua - Izapa, (ii) Muhan - El Rama; Consultores
LAVIAL S.A, Noviembre 2000
4. Documento Evaluativo Microempresas, MTI, Octubre 2000
5. Plan Estrategico de la COERCO, MTI, 09 de Noviembre del 2000
6. Transport Sector Programme Support 1999-2003, Danida, February 1999
7. Normas Ambientales Basicas para la Construcci6n Vial (NIC99); MTI, Unidad Ambiental,
July 1999.
*Including electronic files
- 48 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
NICARAGUA: Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
1 5-Oct-2000
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions            disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                        Purpose                                        IBRD       IDA        Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P064915        2000 Nicaragua                   AG TECHN & RURAL EDU                                  0.00      23.63        0.00      2327        0 97       0.00
P040197        1999 Nicaragua                   FISE III                                              0.00      45.00        0.00      18.14       -2.04       0.00
P052080        1999 Nicaragua                   FORESTRY                                              0.00       9.00        0.00       7.00        2.27      0.00
P035080        1995 Nicaragua                   INSTITUTIONAL DEV CR                                  0.00      23.00        0.00       0.20       0.57       0.00
P049296        2000 Nicaragua                   NI ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TAC                            0.00      20.90        0.00      19.07       -0.80      0.00
P007783        1995 Nicaragua                   NI/Basic Educabon Project                             0.00      47.20        0.00       1.95       -8.76       5.26
P035753        1998 Nicaragua                   NIIHEALTH SECT II                                     0.00      24.00        0.00      16.96       4.22        0.00
P050613        2000 Nicaragua                   NI/SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT                     0.00      52.50        0.00      41.42      -10.00       0.00
P056087        2000 Nicaragua                   Pension and Financial Market Reform TA                0.00       8.00        0.00       7.48        0.00       0.00
P007788        1996 Nicaragua                   ROADS REHAB & MAINT                                   0.00      25.00        0.00       0.03        1.60       0.00
P007790        1997 Nicaragua                   RURAL MUNICIPALITIES                                  0.00      30.00        0.00       2.01       -4.00       0.00
P055853        2000 Nicaragua                   TELECOMMUNIC. REFORM                                  0.00      15.90        0.00       9.41        2.73       0.00
P053705        1998 Nicaragua                   TRANSPORT II                                          0.00      47.40        0.00      24.64       -4 39       0.00
Total:        0.00      371.53          0.00      171.58     -1763       5.26
-49 -



NICARAGUA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
1 5-Oct-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
2000                Finarca                         2.00     0.60    0.00     0.00     1.67    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998                Frutan                          2.00     1.00    0.00     0.00     1.00    0.64     0.00    0.00
1998                La Colonia                      4.00    0.00     0.50     0.00    2.00     0.00     0.50    0.00
1999                SEF Dicegsa                     1.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     1.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:          9.00     1.60     0.50     0.00     5.67     0.64     0.50     0.0
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                            Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
- 50 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
NICARAGUA: Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Latin
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             America       Low         - 
Nicaragua   & Carib.  income        Development diamond*
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                          4.9        509     2.417                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, uS$)                       430      3,840       410
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                         2.1      1,955       988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%J                                           2.7        1.6        1.9     G                                 G
Labor force (%)                                          4.0        2.5       2.3       p                                Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest yer available, 1993-99)                                   capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)     48
Urban population (% ottotatpopulation)                    56         75        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          66         70        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                  40         31        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                20          a        43                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)         67         75        64
Illiteracy (% of population ape 15+)                      20         12        39
Gross rtimary enrollment (% of school-age population)    101        113        96                 Ncaragua
Male                                                   100          .       102                 -- Low-income group
Female                                                 102          ..       86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratios
GOP (USS billions)                              1.6      1.0        2.1        2.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  -5.7     27.5       33.4      42.4                       Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP              42.0     32 5       35.8       33.6
Gross domestic savingslGDP                      8,2     -5.2       -8 6       12.8
Gross national savings/GOP                     -0.9    -26.1       -5t7       -72
Current account balance/GDP                     2.5    -53.2      -29.4      -36.9                     A
Interest payments/GDP                           2.3      0 2        4.0        5.2     Domestic                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 97.8    952.5      280.7     281.0       Savings             f
Total debt service/exports                      8.9      3 3       23.2       27.6
Present value of debt/GDP                        .                246.4
Present value of debt/exports                    ..               484.1
Indebtedness
1979-S9  19S949       199s      1999   199943
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  -1.0       2.8      4 1        7.0       6.2              -Nicaragua
GNP per capita                        4.4       22       6.4        4.6        3.7                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        -7.4       7 9      0.2        6.7       4.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                             40
Agriculture                                    28.3     32.0       33.0       31.6
Industrv                                       28.6     22.3       21.6      22.8      20
Manufacturing                                24.6      17.6      15.1       14.4             _
Services                                       43.1     45.7       45.4      45.7      o0    _.    S'Ts          9     8 9
Private consumption                            74.0     78.5       92.4       94.4    -20 l
Generalr overnment consumption                 17.9     26.7       16.3       18.2              -     GDI        a  GDP
Imports of qoods and services                  28.1     65.2       77.9      88.7
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports and imports I%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    -2.6      4.7        3.5        4.8    20
Industry                                       -0.7      3.4        5.1       12.6     10
Manufacturing                                -1.4       1.4       2.1        3.3
Services                                       -0.4      1.3        3.7       4.5      o
9 90 95   97   99   95
Private consumption                            -3.5      4.5       10.4        5.6    -log
General government consumption                  7.3     -3.0        0.1        9.6
Gross domestic investment                      -3.0     10.0       13.5       39.8    -20
Imports of goods and services                  -0.6      9.0       12 9      19.8                   Exports    - -imports
Gross national product                         -1.6      5.1        9.3        7.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates
- The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missinq, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 51 -



Nicaragua
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999     Inflation (%)
Domesthc prices
(% change)                                                                         30
Consumer prices                              48.1  4,709.3       13.0     11.2    20
Implicit GDP deflator                        31.7  4,709.3       13.0     11.2
10-
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 0
Current revenue                                ..       ..       26.2     25.1             94   95   96   97   98   99
Current budget balance                          .        ..       5.0      5.4            -    GDP deflator       CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..       ..       -4.8    -11.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1979      1989      1998      1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           567      311       573       544     2,00r
Coffee                                      159       90        173      135
Shrimp and lobster                           22       11         79       86     1,500
Manufactures                                118       48        125      109
Total imports (cif)                           360      615      1,492    1,846     1,000
Food                                         78       90        357      441       s00
Fuel and energy                              76       94        144      161
Capital goods                                46      200       452       597        o
93  94  95  96  97  99  99
Export price index (1995=100)                  65       78        90        83
Import price index (1995=100)                  56       81       112       109                 U Exports     U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     116       97        81        76
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS mi/lions)                               1979     1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP(%)
Exports of goods and services                 623      333       830       839 
Imports of goods and services                 511      667      1,517    1,800
Resource balance                              112    -334       -687      -961
-20
Net income                                    -73     -205      -170      -176
Net current transfers                           0        0       232       300
Current account balance                        39    -539       -626      -837     40
Financing items (net)                         -42      471       620       955
Changes in net reserves                         3       68         6      -118     40_
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        156      164       357       510
Conversion rate (DEC, localUUS$)          1.85E-9  3.02E-3       10.6     11.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of 1999 debt (USS mIll.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        1,533    9,651      5,968    6,372
IBRD                                        85      221         15         9                       A 9
IDA                                         23       60        487       598                 G 750 A9    s9
Total debt service                             56       11       251       321          F 409    -        M    C:49
IBRD                                         8        0         11         7
IDA                                          0         0         4         5
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                  D: 1,567
Official grants                             45       173       345       310
Official creditors                          99      570        187       135
Private creditors                            -5      11        -13        18
Foreign direct investment                     3        0       184       143
Portfolio equity                              0        0         0         0             E: 2,990
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0        0       238        91     A- IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 8        0       105       120      B-IDA    D- Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          4        0        10         7     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                     5        0        95       114
Interest payments                             5        0         5         5
Net transfers                                0        0         90       108
Development Economics                                                                                                9/12/00
- 52 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Environmental and Social Analysis
Background:
1.    The general environmental law (LGA) enacted in 1996, established the legal and regulatory
framework for addressing environmental issues in Nicaragua. The Ministry of the Envirohment and
Natural resources (Marena) is the regulatory institution and its responsibilities and primary functions
include policy preparation, project classification and the award of environmental licenses, supervision and
monitoring. In general Marena seeks to promote the early evaluation of environmental impacts in the
project cycle so as to permit inclusion of measures for prevention, mitigation or compensation of adverse
consequences in the project design and execution plans.
2.     All projects are screened by the sponsoring line agency and Marena for their potential
environmental and social impacts. For those with little or no impacts, standard mitigation and monitoring
measures, intended largely to mitigate potential impacts of construction, are included in the sub-project's
contract documents. For projects expected to generate significant adverse impacts, the LGA stipulates that
(i) full environmental and social impact assessments (EIA) must be prepared; (ii) recommendations from
the environmental management plans (PAMA) and the EIA must be incorporated in the project design and
implementation procedures; (iii) public consultation must be carried out as part of the project preparation
cycle; (iv) an environmental license must be obtained before commencing project implementation; and (v)
projects are subject to environmental audits.
3.     Within the LGA  framework, MTI in coordination with Marena, is responsible for the
environmental and social aspects of road projects. The Environmental Unit of the MTI, as part of MTIs
monitoring and control directorate, is responsible for ensuring that the EIA process is incorporated
throughout the project cycle. MTI has a very good manual of practice (NIC99) that includes specifications
that can help to mitigate the environmental impacts (largely construction related) of road projects. For a
typical road rehabilitation project, Marena accepts MTI procedures that include:
- a preliminary environmental evaluation carried out by the MTI's environmental unit;
- certification of the environmental classification by Marena;
- preparation of the EIA by MTI with the support of consulting firms;
- verification that the project's activities do not negatively affect parks and protected areas, cultural assets,
or areas that are environmentally fragile or subject to high ecological risk;
-early and adequate consultation/ participation of the affected population;
- supervision of mitigation measures by MTI; and
- evaluation and monitoring so as to feedback the lessons learned.
Project Analysis:
4. Based on the scope of works and the analyses and submissions made by MTI, Marena has issued the
certification for the Muhan - El Rama component but has classified the Managua - Izapa component as
not requiring certification. Application of the NIC99 procedure manual would suffice for works such as
those included under the proposed project and no additional stand alone environmental studies are needed
The project roads do not traverse any indigenous communities nor will any resettlement be required.
However, social analyses were carried out for all of the trunk roads to be rehabilitated while the secondary
- 53 -



roads to be stabilized were subject to a comprehensive screening exercise. The analysis was undertaken by
the environmental unit of the MTI, assisted by foreign and local consultants. The purpose of the analysis
was to (i) identify and assess any social issues associated with the project; (ii) indicate any adverse
impacts; (iii) evaluate the need for further in-depth studies, reviews, and mitigation plans under the project.
The reports are available to the public at MTI offices in Managua and copies are also in the Project's files.
Summary Findings:
5.     Based on the analyses carried out, the proposed works will not cause any adverse enviromnental or
social impacts. In all cases the population and local authorities in the project area have been consulted. The
main impacts generated by the project would be limited to those during execution of the civil works due to
quarrying, construction noise and dust nuisances etc. These impacts are to be mitigated through standard
measures to be included in the bidding documents and contractors contracts. The works required for road
drainage and slope protection have been identified and the costs of environmental protection have been
incorporated into the budgets.
6.     For the trunk roads, the proposed project includes minimum rehabilitation and improvement
works along existing alignments. As a rule the trunk roads pass through well fenced, long- developed
pasture and farmlands and do not traverse fragile or forested areas. For both trunk roads, there will be no
new construction, nor resettlement of people nor affectation of indigenous populations. In the case of the
Muhan - Rama road, the road will be rehabilitated to a narrower width (6 meters) than that prevailing (7.2
meters) given its relatively low traffic volume (400 - 600 vpd). However, although not required for the
road improvement, in the various locations where about 30 roadside vendors operate within the road
right-of-way, wider shoulders may be provided so as to provide safer stopping areas. To do so will require
moving back some of the shops by a few meters; in all cases the vendors have been consulted and are eager
for this proposal to be implemented as it could enhance their business operations. This has been approved
by the MTI and local authorities as, due to the lack of employment alternatives and the relatively low
frequency of the problem, it does not actively remove vendors from the right-of-way. Hence with the
provision of shoulders and stopping areas, it will be possible to improve safety for pedestrians, cyclists, etc.
The vendors recognize that they have no legal claims to the sites that they use and that the proposed project
will improve their business operations. Hence they themselves will shift back their shops (mostly made of
light material like wood or zinc sheets) at the appropriate time, under the guidance of the MTI
environmental unit.
7.     Again in the case of Muhan - El Rama, the second project (Cr3085-NI) had included conditionality
linked to the effectiveness of the Atlantic Biological Corridor project. The second project had included also
a feasibility study of the design and implementation of a forest restoration program in the Cerro Wawasan
and Cerro Silva protected areas, largely as a general compensatory measure for the indirect effects of road
projects. The conditionality requirement was fullfilled but the feasibility study was not completed because
funds for project implementation had been diverted to the Hurricane Mitch Emergency works. Although
the road does not traverse any forested areas, this project will support the implementation of the
recommendations of the feasiblility study on reforestation when completed in late 200 1.
8.     For the rural roads, which in general traverse flat to rolling  terrain,  their stabilization or
improvement will not involve major earthworks nor realignment. No new roads will be built nor will any
land need to be acquired as in all cases there exists an adequate, clear right of way. In general, given the
simple nature of the project, stabilization with adoquines or gravel, the screening did not reveal any
expected environmental or social impacts. In addition, it is planned in early 2001 to organize and carryout
a workshop on the social and environmental aspects of the design and implementation of rural road
- 54 -



improvements. This is intended to further sensitize officials at the municipal levels, contractors and
consultants on the design and implementation steps that can minimize or eliminate negative impacts. The
project will also provide assistance to the MTI in undertaking sub-project specific monitoring to ensure
compliance with the environmental specifications contained in contracts and more general monitoring to
develop baseline information.
Implementation arrangements:
9.     The key elements of the environmental management that are of importance are the application of
the construction site specific measures. During implementation, in all cases compliance with the country's
environmental laws and regulations, and inclusion of the agreed environmental specifications in the road
construction and maintenance contracts will be verified by the MTI environmental unit. The contractors
will be required to follow work procedures that are environmentally acceptable and compliance will be
monitored and enforced by the supervision consultants.
Institutional strengthening:
10.    As part of the overall reform in 1998 that created the MTI, by converting the MCT into a planning,
regulatory, and standardization agency for the transportation and infrastructure sectors, greater importance
has been assigned to the environmental aspects, strengthening the environmental unit and raising it in the
hierarchy. This project and the 3rd IDB project will provide support for the consolidation of this
modernization process. Plans call for the environmental unit to be strengthened for the purpose of
monitoring the environmental impact of the road projects. Specialized consulting assistance in the IDB
project will help the unit to (i) evaluate and verify the environrmental eligibility of projects in accordance
with established Marena criteria; (ii) organize, analyze and systematize the environmental information; (iii)
ensure compliance with the environmental mitigation measures and environmental management plan; and
(iv) ensure conformance to the respective findings of the environmental impact evaluation studies. While
the IDB continues to play a lead role in the environmental area the IDA project will complement this effort
by providing staff training and technical assistance to the MTI, consultants and contractors to assist them
to carry out their roles, as well as providing assistance in developing social assessment capabilities. This
process will commence with a rural roads environmental seminar being organized for early 2001 and be
continued by the environmental and social institutional strengthening to be carried out under the Second
project and continued under the Third project.
- 55 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 31207
87                                86'                                 85.                                 4                                ti3
NICARAGUA
-15  f ;      . c'0 _s_-;t                    tS      THIRD  ROAD  MAINTENANCE
,   W-m                     AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
/  *      >, _<mtjl   - ern              ' 2'1 og-o
i    ih  r  !   o*=s          . PROJECT ROADS
HONDURAS                                                                                                                                                  -  P RlCANH
Ci _ / T - > ' g:) o = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN PAVED ROADS
REGI| REG    AUTONOMISTA             >       F<PobO                                   -   ALL-WEATHER ROADS (GRAVE
REGi~~~~~*    AU                        hro- - - -  DRY WEATHER ROADS
ATLANTICO NORTE                                L ;                                      PRIoFA  ORTS
14                                                          f                                                                      ,pTbcocmie /                                        4g       f        1siL8C8 UERTO CARiE/  1'  .    OTHER PORTS
> /   iwJia'.\           g J3iNCTEGA           Rn,          - -                                   4,                                          4    INTERNATONAL AIRPORT
L., M.-                                                           El S                                            S, t                                     4    SETONDARY A RPORTS
,~~~.,   *.~~~~ IN    A E8oro.    r           - - - ~~~~~~~~~~~f/                                                                       .....INLAND WATERWAYS
~~~~YI36O00      -W-                                           .    SELECTED TOWNS
'1                                                                         OR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DPARTMIENT CAPITALS
Cooo  o6TgIo  '                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAP,TAL
* 5*   To5an  gi s   2   S   >   _  ziCbwei  ~~ DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
I T -  IERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
- C-gNANDEGA ~         ~            ~           MAAGLP
ALTITUDES IN METERS
REGION AUTONOMISTA                                           20
N   ATLANTICO SUR                                                         200~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OR4560801
Tamel-.~~~~~~~~~                   ~        ~                                                                                            I      I/ I,4WrX I          I\ *Q\94t0>P7
TlTronsR  V-                                                                 di                                      KILOMETERS
12'                                                                                                                                                  $3'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8&l1-
|  ...                                                        * OCEAN           I.
N- C'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T-8   8
PACIFIC                                                                                                                                                                            1  F
M     'BEoh
_EXICTZ,,
OCEAN                                                                 o
S\f~~~~~4I                                                                           p --~~~~~~~~  U,  -~~~~~~ ~~~  ATLANTIC
-  - .,?UAEMALA    HODURAS '>       OCEAN
.<~~~~N    RIO SAN                                   -:~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~  , N~~ICARAGiIIA
- 8$' -  J'ACIFIC  ,,COST4 RICA  PAMNAMA    IT'~
COSTA  RICA                                       L40o_ I                                               OCEAN I'AL -N                     i -
l _  87'                            -j  U-                             85'                                  84'               I                                     .3'  -        80'              .' e5OM4A
JANU,ARY 2601



