Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3464-NI
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 7, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3464-NI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 7, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association determines 
meets 
the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the 
Board of Governors 
of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.” ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is 
not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a decision 
of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the 
Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Community Organization” means an organization composed of members of 
communities adjoining the rural roads to be maintained which have been selected by the 
Borrower and approved by the Association for purposes of carrying out emergency 
routine maintenance of rural roads under Part C of the Project;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year which commences on January 
1;
(e)
“Indicators” means the impact, performance and implementation indicators 
set forth in a supplemental letter of even date herewith;
(f)
“MTI” means Ministerio de Transporte e Infraestructura, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure;
(g)
“Microenterprises” means cooperatives or associations which shall have 
been selected by the Borrower and approved by the Association for purposes of carrying 
out routine road maintenance activities under Part C of the Project;
(h)
“National Assembly” means the Borrower’s legislative branch;
(i)
“Nicaraguan Córdoba” means the currency of the Borrower;
(j)
“Prior Credit” means Credit No. 3085-NI set forth in the Development 
Page  3
Credit Agreement entered into between the Borrower and the Association on July 8, 
1998;
(k)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(l)
“RMF” means the fund established by the Borrower pursuant to Law No. 355 
published in the Borrower’s official gazette on August 21, 2000 for purposes of 
financing the maintenance of the Borrower’s roads;
(m)
“RMF Works” means the spot improvement and other urgent maintenance works 
to be carried out on roads which will be selected by the Borrower from its yearly road 
network maintenance plan, and approved by the Association; and
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifty eight million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 58,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Page  4
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2011 and ending January 15, 2041. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2021 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of          
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned      
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09.  The Minister of MTI, or any person he or she may designate in 
writing, is  designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking 
any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MTI with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and technical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall:
Page  5
(i)
(A)
open and thereafter maintain in a commercial bank, until 
completion 
of the Project, an account in Nicaraguan Córdobas 
under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, for purposes of managing the 
counterpart funds 
referred to in subparagraph (B) below; and 
(B)
by no later than February 1, May 1, August 1 and November 1 
of each 
year deposit in such account  the counterpart funds 
required for the 
implementation of the Project in the following 
three months; and
(ii)
maintain a project coordination unit within MTI with powers and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Association, and staffed 
with personnel 
in numbers and with qualifications acceptable 
to the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Indicators, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and 
furnish to the Association on or about May 31 and November 30 of each year, commencing 
on May 31, 2001, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the  measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date;
(c)
review with  the Association:
(i)
by July 31 and January 31 of each year, or such later dates as the 
Association shall request, the reports referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of 
this Section; and
(ii)
by June 30, 2003, in addition to the reports referred to in 
subparagraph 
(b) of this Section, the effectiveness in the 
implementation of the road 
restoration works included in 
Part B of the Project; and
(d)
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said reports and the Association’s views on the matter.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that routine road maintenance under Part 
C of the Project is carried out by Microenterprises and Community Organizations in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, allocate in 
and make available from its annual budget, and/or make available from the RMF, the 
funds required, in amounts satisfactory to the Association, for the maintenance of its 
road network.
Section 3.06. Except as otherwise agreed by the Association, the Borrower shall: 
Page  6
(a) 
without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, include in its annual budget proposals submitted to the National Assembly, 
the following minimum amounts to finance its program of road maintenance implemented 
by contractors, including Microenterprises and Community Organizations:
(i)
$4, 200,000 equivalent in Fiscal Year 2001;
(ii)
$5,600,000 equivalent in Fiscal Year 2002;
(iii)
$7,500,000 equivalent in Fiscal Year 2003; and
(iv)
$11,700,000 equivalent in Fiscal Year 2004; and
(b)
ensure that the following minimum kilometers of roads are annually 
maintained through such program of road maintenance:
(i)
by no later than December 31, 2001, 1500 kilometers;
(ii)
by no later than December 31, 2002, 2000 kilometers;
(iii)
by no later than December 31, 2003, 2500 kilometers; and 
(iv)
by no later than December 31, 2004, 3000 kilometers.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall require all contractors carrying out works 
under the Project to comply with environmental specifications acceptable to the 
Association, to include, inter alia: (i) the requirements set forth in the applicable 
environmental and natural resource legislation and regulations; (ii) explicit 
prohibitions and environmental behavior guidelines for work crews; (iii) procedures 
for proper selection and management of quarries, borrow pits, gravel extraction along 
rivers, and other sources of construction material, and eventual procedures for 
selection of camp sites, management of camp wastes, and guidelines for camp 
dismantling and abandonment; (iv) procedures for proper disposal of excavated earth 
and spoil material to avoid contaminating streams or causing other unnecessary damage; 
and  (v) procedures for proper disposal of waste from construction machinery and 
equipment.
(b)
The Borrower shall, through MTI: (i) ensure that all bidding documents 
and contracts under the Project incorporate the above environmental specifications; 
and (ii) monitor compliance with such environmental specifications by contractors.
Section 3.08. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Page  7
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and 
accounts for the Special 
Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and a 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or  statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports and/or 
statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
December 31, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
Page  8
and projected 
sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period 
following the period covered by 
said report; and
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds 
of the 
Credit during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit during the six-month 
period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report; and
(B)
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower shall have opened the account referred to in Section 3.01 
(b) (i) (A) of this Agreement and shall have made a deposit of $100,000 equivalent 
therein; and
(b)
the Borrower shall have appointed two engineers with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association for the unit referred to in Section 3.01 
(b) (ii) of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date June 5, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Page  9
Frente al Edificio de la Asamblea Nacional
Managua
Nicaragua
Facsimile:
222-4383
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI); or 
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By /s/ Alfonso Ortega Urbina
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Authorized Representative 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
   )
   )
(a)
under Part A
   )
of the Project
   )
   )
(i)
Managua – Izapa
13,320,000)
Page  10
road section
   )
   )
(ii)
Muhan – El Rama
10,970,000)
road section
   )
85%
   )
(b)
under Part B
16,610,000)
of the Project
   )
   )
(c)
for periodic
 3,140,000)
maintenance under
   )
Part C of the Project
   )
(other than RMF
   )
 Works)
   )
(d)
for routine
 3,140,000
80%
maintenance by 
Microenterprises and
Community Organizations
under Part C of the Project
(other than RMF Works)
(e)
for RMF Works under
 1,960,000
85%
Part C of the Project
(2)
Goods
   710,000
100 % of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ services
 4,780,000
100%
(4)
Training
100%
(a)
for MTI’s and RMF’s
   240,000
100%
staff 
(b)
for Microenterprises
   400,000
80%
(5)
Unallocated
 3,530,000
TOTAL
58,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “Training for MTI’s and RMF’s staff’” means the cost of tuition, 
travel and per diem for MTI’s and/or RMF’s staff participating in training activities, 
rent of sites to deliver the training, printing of materials and other costs related 
to the training referred to in Part D of the Project; and
(d)
the term “Training for Microenterprises” means the cost of fuel, oil, 
lubricants, spare parts and other costs of operating MTI’s vehicles assigned to cover 
the transportation needs related to the training of Microenterprises under Part  D.2 
(a) of the Project, the fees and per diem of promoters of the Borrower’s program of 
road maintenance by Microenterprises, rent of sites to deliver the training, printing 
of materials and other costs related to such training. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
Page  11
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
400,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after November 1, 2000, or a date twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement, 
whichever shall be earlier;
(b)
payments made for expenditures for routine maintenance works by 
Microenterprises under Subcategory (1) (d) of the table in paragraph 1 of Part A of 
this Schedule unless the allocations in the Prior Credit for similar expenditures have 
been fully committed; and
(c)
payments made for expenditures for RMF Works under Subcategory (1) (e) of 
the table in paragraph 1 of Part A of this Schedule unless: 
(i)
the Association shall have approved the first year work plan of 
the RMF, 
and the RMF’s operational manual and procedures; and 
(ii) 
key managerial and support staff have been employed to manage the 
RMF.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a)
works for road maintenance under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent after the first two contracts have been approved by the Association; 
(b)
goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent after the first two 
contracts have been approved by the Association;
(c)
consulting firms and individual consultants under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 and $50,000 equivalent, respectively; and
(d)
training, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Association or its Central Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including in the event it is opened in a 
commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
Page  12
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
Page  13
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $5,500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of $6,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special 
Account Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit  shall follow such procedures as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Page  14
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $15,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the Borrower’s transport 
infrastructure along selected international trunk road corridors; (b) to improve 
access to productive agricultural areas and to rural communities, in particular to 
those located in regions affected by Hurricane Mitch, the storm that affected 
Nicaragua in October 1998; and (c) to ensure the sustainability of the road 
improvements carried out under the Project.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A: 
Road Rehabilitation and Improvement
Rehabilitation and improvement of the Managua-Izapa road and the  Muhan – El 
Rama road.
Part B: 
Hurricane Mitch Damage Restoration  
Restoration to gravel or adoquine standards of about 300 kilometers of secondary 
and tertiary rural roads. 
Part C: 
Routine and Periodic Maintenance
Routine and periodic maintenance (including RMF Works) of about 1500 kilometers 
of trunk, secondary and/or tertiary roads. 
Part D: 
Studies, Technical Assistance and Training
Provision of consultants’ services, equipment and training, as needed for:
1.
Monitoring the performance of the components of the Project, the management and 
supervision of civil work contracts, the design and implementation of training 
programs, technical audits, surveys on traffic origin and destination, transport 
sector reviews, the strengthening of MTI’s capacity for technical, social and 
environmental analysis and the preparation of the implementation completion report of 
the Project.
2.
(a)
Design and supervision of the overall road maintenance program by 
contractors, including:
(i) 
the training to MTI’s staff and Microenterprises required thereto; 
and 
(ii) 
the operation of the RMF, including the design of promotion 
activities and 
the training of MTI’s and RMF’s staff.
3.
The improvement of the planning and programming capacity of MTI, including the 
integration of environmental practices in the planning cycle.
4.
Reforestation near the El Rama road in the corridor connecting the Borrower’s 
Cerro Wawasan and the Cerro Silva protected areas.
Page  15
5.
The preparation of feasibility studies and detailed engineering for the road 
rehabilitation, improvement and maintenance works to be carried out under the Project 
and supervision thereof.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country”  shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for works under Part A of the Project shall be prequalified in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works estimated to cost less than $1,500,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $27,000,000 equivalent; and
(b)
goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
Page  16
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Works for routine maintenance under Part C of the Project costing the equivalent 
of $150,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $4,500,000 equivalent, 
may be procured from Microenterprises and Community Organizations located in the 
respective area in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, 
and on the basis of reference unit prices and standardized quantities.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $6,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for: 
(i) 
goods and works procured pursuant to the provisions of Part B.1 
hereof;
(ii)
works procured pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 hereof; and
(iii)
the first two contracts for goods procured pursuant to the 
provisions of 
Part C.1 hereof,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to all contracts procured pursuant to the provisions of Part 
C.3 hereof, and the first two contracts for goods and works procured pursuant to the 
provisions of Parts C.2 and C.4 hereof, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or the execution of any 
contract 
under shopping (including small works) procedures, 
the Borrower shall 
provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or 
shopping (including small works) procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  17
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least Cost Selection
Services for:
(a)
technical audits of the Project;
(b)
engineering design and supervision of selected road links for Part B of 
the Project; and 
(c)
strengthening the management of civil work contracts, 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services: 
(a)
for the operation of the RMF and promotion activities related thereto, 
the planning of the maintenance of the Borrower’s road network, and the implementation 
of the reforestation plan for Part D.4 of the Project, and technical, social and 
environmental analysis strengthening under Part D.1 of the Project; and
(b)
of procurement experts required for the Project,
all estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Page  18
Services for transport sector reviews, origin and destination surveys and 
performance monitoring under Part D.1 of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services: 
(a)
for transport sector reviews and the monitoring of Part B of the Project; 
and 
(b)
of  RMF advisors, 
all for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms   
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
