                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000681




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (IDA-34640 IDA-3464A)




                                      ON A

                        SPECIFIC INVESTMENT CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 58.80 MILLION
                       {US$75.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT}




                                     TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA

                                    FOR THE

        THIRD ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT




                                December 20, 2007




Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
         (Exchange Rate Effective November 1, 2000)

                Currency Unit = Cordoba C$
                     C$1.00 = US$0.08
                     US$1.00 = C$12.4
                        FISCAL YEAR
                 [January 1 ­ December 31]

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADT            Average Daily Traffic
BM             World Bank (Banco Mundial)
BCIE           Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
COERCO         Regional Road Maintenance Agencies
               (Corporación de Empresas Regionales de Construcción)
DANIDA         Danish International Development Agency
DGV            Highways Department (Dirección General de Vialidad)
DR-CAFTA       Dominican Republic­Central American Free Trade Agreement
FOMAV          Road Maintenance Fund (Fondo de Mantenimiento Vial)
GON            Government of Nicaragua
HDM            Highway Design and Maintenance Model
HIPC           Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Association
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
IEG            Independent Evaluation Group
IERR           Internal Economic Rate of Return
IRI            International Road Roughness Index
ISN            Interim Strategy Note
M&E            Monitoring and evaluation
MARENA         Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
MCA            Community Road Work Group
               (Módulos Comunitarios de Adoquinado)
MCC            Millennium Challenge Corporation
MDGs           Millennium Development Goals
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MTI            Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure
NDP            National Development Plan
NMT            Non-motorized Transport
NPV            Net Present Value
PDOs           Project Development Objectives
PEA            Rural Roads Stabilization Program
PMS            Pavement Management System
PND            National Development Plan (Plan Nacional de Desarrollo)


                               i

PNT              Nacional Transportation Plan (Plan Nacional de Transporte)
PRSC             Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP             Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RED              Road Economic Decision Model
RESA             Regional Environmental and Social Analysis
SIECA            Central America Committee for Economic Integration
                 (Secretaría de Integración Económica Centroamericana)
SIGFA            Integrated Accounting and Auditing System
                 (Sistema Integrado de Gestión Administrativa y Auditoría)
UCP              Project Coordination Unit
vpd              Vehicles per day


      Vice President:         Pamela Cox
      Country Director:       Makhtar Diop
      Sector Manager:         Jose Luis Irigoyen
      Project Team Leader:    Emmanuel A. James
      ICR Team Leader:        Emmanuel A. James




                                 ii

                                           NICARAGUA

           Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project




                                              CONTENTS



Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design.............................................. 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 21
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 23

 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 24
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 25
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 28
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 31
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 32
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 32
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................... 33
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and other Partners/Stakeholders........................ 41
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 44
 Map IBRD 31207




                                                      iii

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Third Road
Country:                Nicaragua             Project Name:         Rehabilitation and
                                                                    Maintenance Project
Project ID:             P068673               L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-34640,IDA-3464A
ICR Date:               12/20/2007            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                    NICARAGUA
Original Total
                        XDR 58.8M             Disbursed Amount:     XDR 58.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Transport (MTI)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/07/2000    Effectiveness:        08/31/2001        08/31/2001
Appraisal:             11/30/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              02/15/2001    Mid-term Review:                        03/30/2003
                                     Closing:              12/31/2005        06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Highly Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Highly Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators          (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Highly Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                9                9
Roads and highways                                             91                91


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Regional integration                                          Primary         Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                             Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                       David de Ferranti
Country Director:         Makhtar Diop                     D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:           Jose Luis Irigoyen               Jeffrey S. Gutman
Project Team Leader:      Emmanuel A. James                Emmanuel A. James
ICR Team Leader:          Emmanuel A. James
ICR Primary Author:       Oswaldo Patino



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the Borrower's transport infrastructure
along selected international trunk road corridors; (b) to improve access to productive
agricultural areas and to rural communities, in particular to those located in regions
affected by Hurricane Mitch, the storm that devastated parts of Nicaragua in October
1998; and (c) to ensure the sustainability of the road improvements carried out under the
Project.




                                             ii

  The performance indicators to measure the achievement of the project's objectives
were: (a) reduction in vehicle operating costs and time savings along the key trunk road
corridors linking Nicaragua and Honduras; (b) qualitative improvements to the network
in terms of the kilometers of roads assessed as being in good or fair condition; (c) extent
of the participation of the private sector in road rehabilitation and maintenance programs
as measured in terms of the numbers and value of contracts awarded; (d) share of the
budget allocated for road maintenance; and (e) number of rural communities provided
with improved road access.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
There were no revisions to the project development objectives or to project key
indicators.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
                                               approval          Target        Completion or
                                              documents)         Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Reduction in vehicle operating costs along key trunk corridors.
Value
quantitative or IRI = 7 and 10            IRI = 2                            IRI = 2
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/18/2000                  12/31/2005                         10/24/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The target value was reached.
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Share of road network assessed as being in good or fair condition (measured by
                IRI).
Value
quantitative or 12%                       17%                                18%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/18/2000                  12/31/2005                         10/24/2006
Comments
(incl. %        MTI has improved the condition of its road network under the project.
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Number of private sector contracts awarded in road rehabilitation and
                maintenance programs.
Value
quantitative or 5                         12                                 20
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/18/2000                  12/31/2005                         10/24/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The number of contracts achieved with private sector has more than doubled

achievement)    during project implementation.

Indicator 4 :   Share of budget allocated to periodic maintenance.
Value
quantitative or 12%                       18%                                20%



                                               iii

Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/18/2000                  12/31/2005                      12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Satisfactorily achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :   Number of rural communities in Region 1 provided with improved road access.
Value
quantitative or 10                        30                              35
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/18/2000                  12/31/2005                      10/24/2006
Comments
(incl. %        100%
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally     Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from                      Achieved at
                                               approval         Revised      Completion or
                                             documents)      Target Values   Target Years
Indicator 1 :   About 150km of trunk roads rehabilitated.

Value           Rehabilitation of

(quantitative   Managua-Izapa (60km)      150 km             Values were  152.9 km
or Qualitative) Muhan-El Rama (90km)                         not revised

Date achieved 12/18/2000                  12/15/2003         12/15/2003   12/15/2003
Comments
(incl. %        100%
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   About 300 km of secondary and tertiary roads improved.
Value
(quantitative   0                         300km              Values were  287km
or Qualitative)                                              not revised

Date achieved 12/18/2000                  12/31/2005         02/15/2007   02/15/2007
Comments
(incl. %        An additional 19.3 km were completed by MTI with other resources.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Job opportunities generated by the Rural Transport Improvement Program.
Value
(quantitative   0                         6,000              Values were  7,960
or Qualitative)                                              not revised.

Date achieved 12/18/2000                  12/31/2005         02/15/2007   02/15/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Based on MTI estimates for direct and indirect employment.
achievement)

Indicator 4 :   Number of microenterprises participating in the Road Network Maintenance
                Program.
Value           24                        28                 Values were  33



                                               iv

(quantitative                                                not revised.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/18/2000                  12/31/2005         12/31/2005     10/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %       The microenterprises are carrying out 2164 km of routine maintenance.
achievement)

Indicator 5 :  About 500 skilled and unskilled people employed for road maintenance by
               contract.
Value
(quantitative  350                        500                Values were    411
or Qualitative)                                              not revised.

Date achieved 12/18/2000                  12/31/2005         12/31/2006     12/31/2006
Comments       This total includes only year-round contracts for routine maintenance. About
(incl. %       150 more people were hired for shorter-duration contracts for periodic
achievement)   maintenance.
Indicator 6 :  Training workshops executed.
Value
(quantitative  0                          70 events          Vales were not100   events
or Qualitative)                                              revised.

Date achieved 12/18/2000                  12/31/2005         12/31/2006     12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       The value achieved included 68 local events and 32 events abroad.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                         IP                 Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     03/31/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     07/06/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     11/30/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     2.00
  4     05/31/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     4.13
  5     11/27/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    11.48
  6     05/23/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    33.34
  7     11/26/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    43.83
  8     03/10/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    55.09
  9     10/05/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    63.86
  10    05/04/2005           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    75.20
  11    05/31/2006       Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory                 83.05
  12    12/01/2006       Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory                 83.05
  13    06/26/2007       Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory                 83.05



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



                                               v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

        At project appraisal, Nicaragua's total road network comprised almost 19,036
        kilometers (km), of which only about 10 percent were asphalt-paved primary
        roads, while the vast majority (90 percent of the total network) consisted largely
        of rural secondary or tertiary roads and unclassified gravel or earth surface roads.
        Traffic levels varied widely but were generally in excess of 2,000 vehicles per
        day (vpd) on the primary roads and upward of 150 vpd on the gravel roads. The
        network's density (14 km/000 km2) and service index (0.4 km/000 pop.), in
        terms of paved roads, were among the lowest in Central America. In terms of
        population, a little over one-fifth (22 percent) of Nicaraguan households had
        access to paved roads. At that time, according to the Ministry of Transportation
        and Infrastructure (MTI), more than 75 percent of the total road network was in
        poor condition, including extensive segments of the north-south trunk road
        (Corredor Natural) between the Honduran and Costa Rican borders, and the
        east-west road linking Managua to the port of El Rama.

        This situation resulted from the difficult economic climate faced by Nicaragua in
        the 1990s and the lack of investments coupled with an inadequate maintenance
        regime that had, in turn, resulted in accelerated road deterioration. As a result,
        the poor condition of infrastructure, particularly in rural areas, was a major
        impediment to supporting the recovery of the economy. The devastation caused
        by Hurricane Mitch in October 1998 further worsened the economic climate of
        the country, by adversely affecting over 850,000 people and causing some 2,800
        deaths. From a sectoral point of view, the more significant damages that
        produced lasting effects on the economy were concentrated on infrastructure,
        particularly the road network, and on agricultural production.

        In the road subsector, Hurricane Mitch caused severe damage to about 2,600 km
        of the network, including the literal shredding of most gravel roads in Region I
        (the Segovias) and Region II (Leon/Chinandega), and the partial or total
        destruction of 83 major bridges. The damage was so extensive that virtually all
        road transport services between Managua and the Honduran border were
        interrupted. Fortunately, the Government, with assistance from Donor countries,
        was able to restore basic traffic circulation in a few weeks; however, the
        bottleneck effects still lingered at the many roadside bypasses erected around
        damaged bridges and severed road sections. In sum, in terms of longitude but not
        necessarily location, Hurricane Mitch more than neutralized all of the road
        improvement gains made during the 1990s. However, the qualitatively better
        portions of the network fared reasonably well and it was estimated that, after the
        basic cleaning up and repairs carried out under the Emergency Programs of the
        various Donors, about 16 percent of the total road network could be considered
        to be in good or fair condition.

       In this context, the Government of Nicaragua (GON) developed a strategy based
       on a market-oriented economy that is open and competitive internationally, to
       ensure sustained economic growth. In order to achieve this goal, the Nicaraguan
       economy required appropriate levels of transport infrastructure investments
       together with an efficient delivery of transport services. Thus, a road
       improvement plan for 1999­2004 was formulated to address issues such as the
       rehabilitation and maintenance of key segments of the road network, the
       restoration to good condition of the trunk or primary asphalt-paved roads, the
       stabilization of rural (secondary and tertiary) roads, bridge rehabilitation,
       periodic maintenance by contract, and strengthening of MTI planning and
       programming capacities.

       Consistent with this plan, the Third International Development Association
       (IDA)-financed Road Project was designed to focus on the road rehabilitation
       and maintenance backlog, institutional development, and training needs. The
       project's goal was to support the economic recovery of the country as a whole
       through investments in the trunk corridors, especially those located in regions
       damaged by Hurricane Mitch. The Third roads project marked the continuation
       of a series of IDA-funded projects in the road subsector and was consistent with
       IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS Report No. 17496 of April 9, 1998)
       and the Government's transport priorities, and with the strategies of the other
       donors.




1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Indicators

       The objectives of the Project were: (a) to improve the Borrower's transport
       infrastructure along selected international trunk road corridors; (b) to improve
       access to productive agricultural areas and to rural communities, in particular to
       those located in regions affected by Hurricane Mitch, the storm that affected
       Nicaragua in October 1998; and (c) to ensure the sustainability of the road
       improvements carried out under the project.

       The performance indicators used to measure the achievement of the project's
       objectives were: (a) reduction in vehicle operating costs and time savings along
       the key trunk road corridors linking Nicaragua and Honduras; (b) qualitative
       improvements to the network in terms of the km of roads assessed in good or fair
       condition; (c) extent of the participation of the private sector in road
       rehabilitation and maintenance programs as measured in terms of the numbers
       and value of contracts awarded; (d) share of the budget allocated for road
       maintenance by contract; and (e) number of rural communities provided with
       improved road access.




                                           2

1.3 Revised PDOs (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and Reasons/Justification

       There were no revisions to the Project Development Objectives or to key project
       indicators.


1.4 Main Beneficiaries

       Several groups were expected to benefit from the improvement of road
       infrastructure in the country. The first was the country as a whole, and especially
       road users, through the elimination of road bottlenecks and the reduction of
       vehicle operating costs. Given Nicaragua's central location, regional road
       transport services would also benefit, due especially to the improvements of the
       trunk roads in the key trade corridors.

       The second target group was the rural communities in Region I (Estelí, Madriz,
       and Nueva Segovia). These communities were the poorest in the country, and
       expected to benefit from the rural road investments by lowering the costs of
       agricultural production and by the reduction of dust hazard to their health. Target
       communities were also expected to benefit from direct and indirect employment
       opportunities provided during the execution of rehabilitation and maintenance
       works. During project preparation, fieldwork confirmed the priority of these
       areas based on economic criteria and the need to restore damaged roads.

       The third group was the unemployed people from the rural communities who
       would have also benefited from entrepreneurship training through the
       establishment and operation of additional maintenance microenterprises. The
       fourth group comprised the staffs of MTI and the Road Maintenance Fund
       (FOMAV) who were the beneficiaries of the technical assistance program that
       was intended to consolidate the institutional gains made under the previously
       executed projects, and to continue building their capacity for a better use of
       resources.

       Other actors expected to benefit from the project were (a) the adoquine (small
       octagonal cement block) fabrication industry and the entire local construction
       industry, (b) municipalities from the rural communities in Region I, and (c) local
       consultants working on the design and supervision of the rural road stabilization
       program.




                                            3

1.5 Original Components


       The project comprised four major components:
       Component A: Road Rehabilitation and Improvement Program. This
       component included the rehabilitation and improvement of two main roads: the
       Managua-Izapa road (63 km), which represented the most trafficked section of
       the trunk road, linking Nicaragua to Honduras at Guasaule; and the Muhan-El
       Rama road (92 km), which formed the last link in the 290-km road from
       Managua due east to the river port at El Rama. The works consisted primarily of
       widening and rehabilitating the road along existing alignments, and provision of
       adequate drainage and road signs. Rehabilitation of these corridors would help
       reduce the costs of transporting both exports and imports while at the same time
       helping to increase the viability of the national port at El Rama.

       Component B: Rural Transport Improvement. This component financed the
       stabilization of about 300 km of rural secondary and tertiary roads, to gravel or
       adoquine standards, located mostly in the Hurricane Mitch-devastated Region I.
       The works were planned to be executed by private and small contractors who
       would restore the road sections to gravel or adoquine standards, all within the
       existing rights-of way. Participation of small local contractors was an important
       feature so as to provide growth opportunities for them.

       Component C: Road Network Maintenance. This component aimed at financing
       the implementation of routine and periodic maintenance of approximately 1,500
       km of trunk, secondary, and/or tertiary roads. The subcomponents included
       financing for: (a) the continuation of the program for introducing periodic
       maintenance by contract; (b) the extension of the program for routine
       maintenance by microenterprises; and (c) partial support of the annual programs
       of the Road Maintenance Fund (FOMAV).

       Component D: Capacity Building. This component included the financing of
       engineering and technical studies, and technical assistance through the provision
       of consultants' services, equipment, and training, as needed for: (a) monitoring
       the performance of the components of the Project, the management and
       supervision of civil work contracts, the design and implementation of training
       programs, technical audits, surveys of traffic origin and destination, transport
       sector reviews, the strengthening of MTI's capacity for technical, social, and
       environmental analysis, and the preparation of the implementation completion
       report of the Project; (b) designs and supervision of the overall road program by
       consultants, and training for MTI's staff and microenterprises as required, plus
       the training of FOMAV's staff; (c) improving the planning and programming
       capacity of MTI; (d) implementation of a reforestation pilot project near
       Bluefields Town; and (e) financing of feasibility studies and detailed
       engineering.




                                             4

1.6 Revised Components

        The original project components were not revised. However, the Bank financing
        increased, in dollars terms, from US$75 million to US$83.3 million due to the
        appreciation of the SDR, during the implementation period. The net increase in
        financing was used mainly for the road stabilization component.




1.7 Other Significant Changes


        During project implementation, there were some changes, as listed below:

        1. In 2002, following the national elections and the transition from the Alemán
            Administration to the Bolaños Administration, the country faced a difficult
            economic climate that led to budget cuts and a shortage of counterpart funds.
            At the government's request, IDA agreed to mitigate this factor by increasing
            its disbursement share for civil works after 2002 to 86 percent of total cost.
            As a result, the Government's contribution decreased from US$12.44 million
            projected at appraisal to about US$5.64 million. Due to this measure taken
            by the IDA, the project's implementation was able to regain momentum.

        2. The loan closing date, originally scheduled for December 31, 2005, was
            extended three times, for a total of 18 months. The first extension was
            granted until June 8, 2006 on the basis of the earlier delays that occurred due
            to excessive and untimely rainfall, the difficult political and economic
            climate, and the periodic shortages of counterpart funds The second
            extension, granted until December 30, 2006, was agreed between the
            Government of Nicaragua (GON) and the Bank to permit the completion of
            civil works affected by the continued untimely rainfall. Finally, the loan
            closing date was extended to June 30, 2007 to permit the conclusion of
            studies and consulting services related to the Regional Environmental and
            Social Analysis (RESA) needed for the proposed Naciones Unidas-
            Bluefields road improvement. The improvement of this road may be a
            candidate for inclusion in a future IDA project.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry


        The project's design was generally sound. The project was based mainly on the



                                             5

       Government's transport priorities and on the experience and lessons learned
       under the First (CR 2871-NI) and Second (CR 3085-NI) road transport projects,
       which had both been executed in a highly satisfactorily manner. The Independent
       Evaluation Group (IEG) Project Performance Assessment Report No. 39868 of
       June 4, 2007 on the Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
       confirmed this. Relevant factors related to the rebuilding of networks following
       periods of natural disasters or economic downturns faced by the country, when
       there would be an overriding desire to put resources on reconstruction only, were
       also taken into account in the design of specific components. Considering this, a
       key lesson that proved to be important was the need to design a balanced
       program focused on the sustainable development of the institutions that manage
       the sector and on the maintenance of infrastructure. Participatory processes were
       also identified and executed to ensure the project's viability. Local people and
       municipal authorities were informed prior to the start-up of the project, and
       expressed their support of the proposed rural road improvements. Full
       commitment from the Borrower and ownership from the beneficiary population
       were essential to achieving outcomes in these aspects.

       Project design also complemented Bank poverty reduction strategies by focusing
       on one of the poorest regions of the country. The contracting of local community
       modules and microenterprises for road stabilization and maintenance works
       proved to be an important approach for the generation of job opportunities and
       the improvement of living standards in the communities.

       The project components were in line with the objectives, and the activities
       comprising each of them were realistic and vital to achievement of the desired
       development outcomes. Physical investments focused on rehabilitation and
       maintenance works, and were generally not overly complex for their design and
       implementation. The institutional strengthening component was designed mainly
       to improve MTI's efficiency so as to ensure sustainability of its operations, but it
       also involved technical assistance and staff training activities for other sector
       actors, such as FOMAV and the microenterprises. These activities were needed
       in order to achieve the intended outcomes, but were to some extent dependent on
       the presence of a set of complementary conditions including a supportive
       institutional environment and availability of adequate capacity at various levels,
       together with a readiness to adjust to changing circumstances on the part of the
       Project Coordination Unit (UCP).


2.2 Implementation


       During the implementation stage, there were some keys factors that affected
       performance and, these are described below:

       Introduction of a new government financial system. The application of a new



                                           6

financial and accounting system in the public sector--the Sistema Integrado de
Gestión Administrativa y Auditoría (SIGFA)--and Financial Law 550
introduced new demands and procedures for project accounting and
administration, generating a somewhat longer payment cycle for contractors.
This resulted in some delays. The IDA helped to organize an interministerial
consulting group (MTI/Ministry of Finance/State Audit) which played a
screening, prioritizing, and problem solving role that was instrumental in
removing system bottlenecks.

Shortage of Counterpart Funds. Project implementation was affected by the
delays in the availability of counterpart funds to finance the civil works
components. To overcome this problem, IDA increased its share of project cost
financing from 86 percent to 94 percent, on average.

Frequent turnover of the key staff. Overall staff turnover amounted to about 55
of the higher-level staff in MTI and the UCP dealing with the project. In terms of
numbers of key staff changes, during project execution there were 2 Ministers
and 4 Vice Ministers of MTI, 3 Directors of Highways, 2 Directors of Planning,
and 2 engineers at the UCP. The potential negative effects of these frequent
turnovers were offset by the training events that were implemented on a timely
and continual basis at various levels of the MTI and UCP, and by IDA dialogue
and missions focused on ensuring continuity of the program.

Continuity of the Project Management Team. As part of the institutional and
implementation setup, the MTI executed the Third project through the same UCP
that had demonstrated an excellent performance with the two previous IDA-
financed projects (CR.2871-NI and 3085-NI). In addition, due to the scale of the
adoquine program, the UCP team was strengthened by two additional engineers.
The experience and lessons learned by the UCP proved to be important in
dealing with the implementation issues that arose continually and with those due
to periodically arising emergencies such as earthquakes, droughts, and floods.
On balance, the UCP staff showed a remarkable ability to adjust the project to
face challenges due to adverse changes in the implementing environment, and
also to effectively use and reprogram the resources available. The UCP was
staffed by regular MTI personnel who were seconded to it and paid standard
government salaries; it is fully integrated with the normal administrative
functioning of the MTI.

Strong and productive dialogue between the MTI staff, Bank team, and
Donors. The quality of the dialogue among the client, the Bank, and the Donors
allowed the UCP to overcome the difficulties that appeared during project
implementation. Between the Bank and MTI teams, it was possible to adapt and
reformulate strategies quickly and to respond to the changing realities such as
frequent staff turnover or the shortage of counterpart funds.




                                     7

        Fuel surcharge for the Road Maintenance Fund (FOMAV). The funding of
        road maintenance had long been a problem in Nicaragua but was gradually
        improving due to the steps taken under the previous IDA projects, especially the
        introduction of the FOMAV and the contracting of road maintenance to
        microenterprises and private contractors. At the time of preparation of the Third
        project, it was agreed that the Government would help to ensure the
        sustainability of the road program by securing the funding of FOMAV
        operations through a fuel surcharge. The Government in principle supported the
        adjustment and eventually managed to approve the legislation needed to create a
        reliable source of funding for road maintenance activities managed by the
        FOMAV. However, it took many years to achieve this change. The proposal was
        approved by Congress in December 2005, more than six years after the creation
        of FOMAV. During those previous years, the routine and periodic maintenance
        operations of FOMAV were supported by co-financing with the Inter-American
        Development Bank (IDB), IDA, the Danish International Development Agency
        (DANIDA), and other donors. As a result, FOMAV's capacity improved
        considerably and by 2005 was in a position to manage the additional resources
        arising from the surcharge.

        Force majeure events. The rainy seasons in Nicaragua of approximately five to
        seven months delayed the completion of some civil works. It was due partly to
        the difficulties in the execution of civil works that were generated during these
        heavy rains that the Government requested two of the closing date extensions.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation, and Utilization

        Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): Project implementation was measured
        against a list of physical and financial targets for road rehabilitation, periodic and
        routine road maintenance, and detailed institutional strengthening for MTI. The
        M&E targets were specifically linked to the project, and focused on the
        achievement of project outputs over given periods. The baseline data to monitor
        key transport indicators for MTI had been developed under the earlier IDA
        projects.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

        Safeguards: Project preparation with regard to the safeguards aspects was carried
        out in accordance with World Bank Operational Directives and the
        environmental procedures established by the Ministry of Environment and
        Natural Resources (MARENA). MTI in coordination with MARENA was
        responsible for the environmental and social aspects of project preparation and
        implementation. The project was accorded Category B given that the
        rehabilitation works for the selected roads were along existing corridors and no
        significant negative impacts were expected. MARENA issued the environmental
        certification for the project. No safeguards compliance problems arose during
        project implementation.



                                             8

        It is orthwhile noting that the project supported two major safeguard initiatives
        for (i) introducing social assessments and (ii) carrying out a reforestation pilot.
        First, starting from zero experience, the MTI has learned how to conduct social
        analyses under this project and has tried to mainstream their experience through
        the preparation of a Social Management Manual. This Manual covers
        resettlement, cultural property, indigenous people as well as other key elements
        of social impact assessment and mitigatory measures. Additionally, the manual
        outlined some of the key policies and strategies needed for building cooperation
        with the municipalities involved in order to pursue common or joint problem
        solving approaches. This was an exemplary achievement of the MTI. Second, in
        order to compensate for the indirect effects of road projects, the project financed
        the successful reforestation of 60 hectares of the Esconfran Basin, near
        Bluefields Town. The project also provided technical assistance to the 32
        beneficiary families living in the reforested area.

        Fiduciary Aspects: Financial management of the project was carried out in
        accordance with the arrangements agreed upon in the legal agreements and
        operational manual. Also, the project had an acceptable financial system in place
        at the start-up due in part to the retention of accounting staff in the UCP from
        previous projects, providing experienced administration and management of the
        financial aspects. In general, it can be said that the financial management
        arrangements of the project were found to be satisfactory during project
        implementation.

        Procurement: Given the experience and institutional capacity within the UCP,
        the procurement of goods, works, and services under the project was carried out
        satisfactorily in accordance with IDA procurement procedures. The preparation
        of tender documents and procurement proceeded smoothly, and the record-
        keeping and filing systems were good. The UCP reported procurement
        information to the IDA frequently and issues that arose were addressed with
        support from the IDA procurement staff. In general, there were few delays in the
        procurement and payments process, other than due to factors such as counterpart
        funding not being readily available. The latter was solved by increasing the IDA
        share of financing.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

        Key trunk roads financed under the project are already in operation and
        maintained by FOMAV under its annual regular operations and investment
        plans. Rural roads financed under the adoquine road stabilization component are
        also being maintained by the road maintenance microenterprises. Moreover, IDA
        has worked with the Government and MTI to develop a National Development
        Plan (NDP), which among other things, highlighted the need for investments in
        critical productive infrastructure. The IDA's Interim Strategy Note of August 4,



                                             9

        2005 (ISN Report No. 32570-NI) endorsed the importance of continued
        government support for improving road infrastructure. IDA has since formulated
        and approved the Fourth Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (CR
        4185-NI) that is focused on sustainability of road maintenance and improving
        access by scaling-up the road stabilization program in rural areas. This program
        will help MTI complete another 320 km of the NDP's target of improving 1,200
        km of secondary and rural roads. The remainder will be attained via projects
        financed by the Central American Bank for Economic Integration (BCIE), IDB,
        the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC), and the GON. This follow-up
        operation is consistent with the Government's transport sector strategy,
        government priorities, and the completed Third project.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

        Relevance of the project objectives is rated high. The project objectives, as stated
        in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), focused on addressing the priority
        areas that would go far in eliminating the road infrastructure constraints to
        economic growth, which were: (a) road rehabilitation and maintenance backlog,
        and (b) institutional development and training needs of the agencies responsible
        for managing the transport sector. These objectives were also responsive to the
        Borrower's strategies for poverty reduction through growth and to the economic
        need for repairing transport infrastructure that was damaged by Hurricane Mitch.
        This was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Nicaragua.

        The objectives are still relevant because they are consistent and in line with the
        principles of the Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative and the
        GON's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), since the deficiencies of road
        infrastructure constitute a limitation to economic growth. They are linked also to
        the achievement of other expected NDP key results, which include: (a) reaching
        an annual economic growth rate of 5 percent while sustaining macroeconomic
        stability, (b) reaching the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) emphasizing
        extreme poverty reduction, (c) doubling the value of exports between 2004 and
        2010, (d) improving the quality of 1,200 km of the secondary and rural road
        network, and (e) attracting additional foreign private investments exceeding
        US$100 million annually.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives (details on outputs in Annex 2)

        The achievement of Project Development Objectives is rated highly satisfactory
        since virtually all of the intended project outcomes and outputs have been
        achieved. Project design and loan resources were focused primarily on the road
        improvements, ensuring sustainability of road maintenance, and continuing
        institution building. It must be borne in mind that this project was implemented



                                             10

during a particularly difficult economic and political period in Nicaragua. Still,
the overall justification and sustainability of the road network improvement
program seems to have finally been attained. The securing of sustainable funding
for road maintenance and the full establishment of the FOMAV were landmark
achievements; to some extent this was also true for the rural roads stabilization
program. This marks the completion of a key long term goal for the IDA because
there is now a sustainable source of financing for the maintenance of the rural
and main roads being rehabilitated under the various MTI programs. It also helps
guarantee the long term sustainability of the road maintenance by
microenterprises program, which is now being managed by FOMAV. The Third
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance project thus became considered as the
model performer for the IDA portfolio in Nicaragua and for the LAC Region as a
whole.

Based on these achievements, the project has been rated as overall highly
satisfactory. An assessment of each of the development objectives follows.

(i) Improve the efficiency of road transportation in Nicaragua through the
rehabilitation of transportation infrastructure along the key international
trunk road corridors. This objective has been achieved highly satisfactorily. The
major civil works contracts for the rehabilitation of the Managua-Izapa and the
Muhan-El Rama road sections were fully completed and put into operation
within the project implementation period, with no significant cost overruns. Both
sections form part of the highest ranking corridors (in terms of IERR and NPV)
for road improvement, since they served as important links in the strategic
network of Nicaragua and the other Central American countries. The
rehabilitation of these sections of the corridors has eliminated the transport
bottlenecks in the north-south corridor to Honduras and also in the corridor to
the Atlantic coast. The Managua-Guasale corridor was seriously damaged
(actually, completely severed at various locations) by Hurricane Mitch in 1998,
thereby making transport movements even more difficult.

Rehabilitation and widening of the Managua-Izapa section (62.5 km) was
essential to Nicaragua and to regional trade because this is the most trafficked
section of the north-south trunk road between the Honduran and Costa Rican
borders. Other sections near the Honduran border are being financed by BCIE,
and the completion of the restoration of the entire corridor is expected by
December 2007. This will help facilitate interregional transport and trade, in
compliance with the Secretaría de Integración Económica Centroamericana
(SIECA) plans, the Plan Puebla-Panama, and the Dominican Republic­Central
American Free Trade Agreement (DR-CAFTA). Likewise, the Muhan-El Rama
roadway (90.3 km) has resulted in the completion of the east-west corridor,
linking Managua to the Atlantic at the port of El Rama. The corridor
improvement was also financed with IDB and DANIDA funds for its two
intermediate links. Its completion has produced major economic and social
impacts for the departments of Boaco, Chontales, and RAAS.



                                    11

The completed civil works has also extended the life of the pavement, widened
it, and reduced its roughness (from International Road Roughness Index [IRI] 7
in the Managua-Izapa section and IRI 10 in the Muhan-El Rama, to IRI 2 in both
sections), with major improvements in terms of reduction in vehicle operating
costs, time savings, and maintenance costs. These trunk roads are now in a
condition to better support the growing range of exports and imports between
Nicaragua and its major commercial partners.

(ii) Improve access to productive agricultural areas and to rural communities,
especially those located in Hurricane Mitch-damaged regions. The project
successfully achieved the implementation of the Rural Roads Stabilization
Program (PEA). This rating is justified since the program aimed at: (a) restoring
transport infrastructure damaged by Hurricane Mitch in Region I--Esteli,
Madriz, Nueva Segovia, among other zones; (b) supporting Nicaragua's poverty
reduction strategy by generating job opportunities for skilled and unskilled
people; and (c) strengthening national private contractors and the local
consulting industry. The Rural Roads Stabilization Program by adoquine was
administered and managed by MTI, which successfully restored 203.5 km, of
which 27.82 km were implemented by community groups through 32 special-
purpose community modules (Módulos Comunitarios de Adoquinado).. Other
donors such as BCIE also supported this program and financed the stabilization
of 19.3 km of roads in Region I. In addition, another 83 km of gravel road were
resurfaced, hence the MTI achieved a total of 305.8 km of improved rural and
secondary roads.

The PEA represented the Government's adoption and expansion of the rural
roads program of the Third project. This was due in part to the technologies
chosen (adoquine) and the continued evidence of its benefits and social impacts.
These beneficial impacts arose from the fact that (a) both the production of
adoquines and their placement in the roadbed are highly labor-intensive
operations; (b) fewer petroleum-derived, imported inputs are consumed than for
other stabilization techniques; (c) completion of the project cycle required less
logistical and managerial support because of the simplicity of adoquines; (d)
roads require dramatically reduced levels of maintenance afterward; and (e) less
use is made of costly, heavy equipment during implementation or subsequent
maintenance. As a result, the project has restored the secondary and rural roads
in a cost-effective and sustainable manner given the prevailing levels of local
know-how. This has had both direct benefits such as reducing transport costs and
indirect and derived benefits such as having a clean environment without
suspended dust clouds, improving rural accessibility and communication,
supporting agricultural production and other economic activities, and facilitating
access to health, educational, and social services. The PEA is now a national
program of growing importance in the transport sector in Nicaragua due to
excellent results on the ground and the proactive participation of the private
sector throughout the project cycle. The GON considers it to be one of the key



                                   12

pillars for promoting economic development and poverty reduction across the
country.

Other benefits of PEA's implementation include the generation of short-term
employment for local firms and community groups. These outcomes were
possible because the project proposed and designed a special mechanism that
consisted of organizing rural groups into microenterprises called Módulos
Comunitarios de Adoquinado (MCA), which allowed the communities to
participate in the execution of works. By the end of the project, about 7,960
skilled and unskilled workers had been employed, and the MTI estimated over
200,000 community people from about 50 communities received direct and
indirect benefits. In this manner, the adoquine strategy has proved to be a very
effective instrument to mobilize local resources (materials, labor, and
technology), improve community and local involvement in planning and
decisionmaking, and organize communities to help address their own needs.

(iii) Help ensure the sustainability of the road improvements. This objective
has been achieved highly satisfactorily due to: (a) the legislative approval for
funding of the FOMAV via a surcharge on fuels, (b) the priority given to
continuing the periodic maintenance by private contractors and routine
maintenance by microenterprises; and (c) the technical assistance and training
activities for the staff responsible for road maintenance in MTI and FOMAV.

One of the project's most important contributions was the technical support
provided for the preparation and submission to Congress of a bill to reform the
FOMAV Law that called for the levying of a surcharge on fuels in order to
provide the funds needed for financing FOMAV in a sustainable manner. The
establishment of secure funding for FOMAV also became incorporated into the
broader IDA-GON dialogue and was one of the triggers for the second tranche of
the PRSC program for Nicaragua. Up to 2005, the FOMAV work-program was
partially funded under project provisions for a Fondo Semilla, provided by IDA
and IDB, which supported the maintenance of 348.1 km by contract and
provided the opportunity for a successful start-up and demonstration of the role
of FOMAV to the Nicaraguan public. Also, the project provided technical
assistance for the staffing and organizational establishment of FOMAV, and for
the development of its annual work programs through private contractors for
periodic maintenance and through microenterprises for routine maintenance.
Currently, the funds collected are being transferred to FOMAV on time, and
FOMAV is now expanding its maintenance works to 2,120 km of the road
network. Public opinion surveys show that FOMAV continues to strengthen its
current positive public image due to its good track record and its promotion of
increased private sector participation in the improvement and maintenance of
roads.


With regard to routine maintenance, five additional microenterprises have been



                                      13

        created and are fully operational and providing maintenance services for the
        roads program. Until March 2007, MTI managed and supervised a total of 33
        microenterprises that maintain 2,164 km of roads. The creation of five additional
        microenterprises has generated 411 job opportunities for skilled and unskilled
        workers. The microenterprises have all been transferred to FOMAV, in
        compliance with requirements for the Fourth Road Rehabilitation and
        Maintenance Project. The Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
        also provided training activities for the microentrepreneurs, which increased
        their capacity in terms of organizational aspects such as teamwork,
        administration, programming, costs, accounting, report writing, legal and tax
        affairs, and administration of their contracts.

        Periodic maintenance works were implemented satisfactorily by private
        contractors. This program followed the initiative that began during the Second
        Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project for the introduction of periodic
        maintenance by contract. In the Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
        Project, MTI continued promoting a policy for contracting out virtually all
        rehabilitation and maintenance works, through competitive selection processes.
        As a result, private sector participation has increased in terms of design,
        construction, and maintenance works, all supervised by MTI or a private
        consulting firm. On the other hand, state enterprise participation under the
        Regional Road Maintenance Agencies (Corporación de Empresas Regionales de
        Construcción, COERCO), was reduced to a more supplementary role and
        focused on areas with lower contractor presence.

        The highly satisfactory overall assessment of this objective was also achieved
        due to the training and institutional development component that strengthened
        the capabilities of MTI, FOMAV, and microentrepreneurs in various aspects of
        the project management cycle and managerial organization.


3.3 Efficiency

        The project's economic rate of return is quite robust. At appraisal the Internal
        Economic Rate of Return (IERR) for the road rehabilitation component was
        estimated at 29 percent and the Net Present Value (NPV) was estimated at
        US$26.9 million. The ex post economic analysis for the road rehabilitation
        component resulted in an NPV of US$98 million and an IERR of 39.2 percent,
        which indicates a very robust economic justification. For the rural and secondary
        roads stabilization, the ex post analysis was carried out for 21 representative
        subprojects taken from the zones of intervention--Estelí (2), Nueva Segovia
        (13), Madriz (2), Rivas (2), Masaya (2)--and the ex post economic analysis
        resulted in an IERR of 21.3 percent and an NPV of approximately US$15.9
        million. In general, the combined NPV of the representative sample of road
        subprojects remained positive at a 12 percent discount rate as envisioned at the
        appraisal.



                                             14

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

        Rating: Highly satisfactory

        The overall outcome rating is highly satisfactory based on the assessment of the
        economic relevance of the project and the achievement of the appraisal
        objectives. As explained in the previous sections, the relevance of the project
        continues to be very high and its benefits are substantial. The achievement of the
        Project Development Objective is highly satisfactory given the (a) prompt
        restoration of key transport links that were damaged by Hurricane Mitch, (b)
        successful expansion of the adoquine program, (c) progress made in FOMAV for
        ensuring sustainability of the road improvement programs, (d) progress made in
        strengthening the environmental unit at MTI, (e) successful and expanded
        participation of the private sector in road construction, and (f) provision of
        maintenance mircroenterprises.

        The project represented the main IDA response in the transport sector for the
        restoration of key sections of the main and rural roads networks that had been
        destroyed or damaged by Hurricane Mitch. As such, it was a very timely and
        appropriate project. In addition, achievements such as the National Assembly
        approval of the fuel surcharge that is being used for funding FOMAV road
        maintenance is a truly landmark achievement. For the first time, it may be
        possible to guarantee road maintenance funding in Nicaragua and hence provide
        one of the key inputs needed to break out of the vicious cycle of improving roads
        and then leaving them to deteriorate. Other worthwhile achievements included
        the completion of key steps to introduce and mainstream social safeguards
        within the MTI project cycle due to the preparation of a manual for the
        mitigation of the social impacts of road projects.

        Hence the implementation of this project has not only left Nicaragua with better
        roads but has also laid the institutional framework and the groundwork for
        promoting long-term sustainability of the road network.


3.5 Overarching Themes, other Outcomes, and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

        Based on surveys carried out by the MTI, the rural roads stabilization component
        has improved the livelihood of rural residents in terms of improved mobility
        year-round and access to facilities for education, health, banking, and social
        services. In general, the rural communities in Region I, one of the poorest areas
        of Nicaragua, benefited directly in economic terms through the cash injected
        during construction and by the potential future impact of paved roads on living
        standards through increased market competition and better year-round access to
        economic centers, government and cultural resources, and so forth. These



                                            15

         achievements have contributed to an economic stimulation of local communities,
         which can now trade more of their products, and which has in turn generated the
         creation of microenterprises for complementary and related local services and
         the establishment of new businesses (stores, restaurants, cooperatives, and so
         forth). Annex 8 has further details on the projects social development impacts.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

         The IDA through its Third Road project has continued to provide a significant
         contribution to the institutional development of the transport sector in Nicaragua.
         In particular, the project: (a) provided the institutional, technical, and legal
         support needed to establish a reliable funding mechanism for FOMAV; (b)
         improved the implementation capacity of FOMAV by expanding the use of
         private contractors that were selected via public building processes for periodic
         maintenance of the road network; (c) supported a pilot study for reforestation
         and implemented its first phase; (d) helped mainstream safeguard considerations
         into the project cycle by developing a social aspects manual; and (e)
         strengthened the technical capacity of the key staff of MTI, FOMAV, and
         microenterprises through the introduction and execution of annual training
         programs. Regarding the latter, the training program focused on the following
         areas: planning and programming, information technology, environmental and
         social aspects; accounting, financial, and procurement procedures; and road
         engineering, project management, and administration. Throughout project
         implementation, there have been more than 100 training events, 68 in Nicaragua
         and 32 abroad. In sum, 539 MTI and FOMAV personnel were trained. As a
         result, MTI has strengthened the Environmental Unit, the Directorate of Finance
         and Administration, and the Directorate of Transport and its Procurement Unit,
         among others. The project setup, whereby UCP relied on various MTI
         directorates to develop the capacities needed to carry out key tasks, was also
         conducive to the success of the institutional programs. Hence, the institutional
         development achievements can be rated as substantial.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

         Rehabilitation of the main and rural roads, together with the creation of
         microenterprises dedicated to road maintenance, have provided unexpected
         project outcomes that have had significant positive impacts. For example there
         has been a significant increase in the use of bicycles in areas whose roads have
         been stabilized with adoquines. The MTI reports that residents of many
         communities have purchased bicycles and hence bike traffic has grown from
         near zero before the project to over 300 bike trips per day on adoquine roads.

         The use of bicycles was virtually impossible before the project due to the
         condition of the roads. Facilitating Non-motorized Transport (NMT) (in



                                             16

       particular bicycle traffic) is a particular advantage of adoquines over gravel
       roads. Supporting and enabling such a cost-effective modality for improving the
       mobility of rural peoples could turn out to be one of the major unintended
       benefits of the rural roads adoquine stabilization program.

       The participation of the private sector has been another indirect result of the
       project. This participation was due partly to the use of adoquines. Production of
       adoquines is 100 percent Nicaraguan, not only with respect to the materials but
       also to the labor force for its production and handling. By 2004, adoquine
       production capacity was increased from 2.8 million per month to 5.5 million per
       month, according to estimates of the Nicaraguan Chamber of Construction.

       Another outcome was the development of the private sector as the primary
       supplier of personnel and facilities for the design, supervision, construction, and
       maintenance of road projects. The strategy, delineated carefully by IDA within
       the execution of several projects in the sector, has been achieved successfully.
       Periodic and routine maintenance are undertaken by private contractors for the
       most part. FOMAV uses private firms for the maintenance of the paved main
       road network, with plans to use this modality as it expands support to the
       municipal network. Private companies also carry out and supervise road
       rehabilitation projects. Small private contractors manage the rehabilitation of
       secondary and tertiary roads. Finally, routine maintenance is undertaken by small
       community microenterprises. In general terms, these suppliers are now the
       entities responsible for service delivery such as design, construction or
       rehabilitation, and periodic and routine maintenance of roads. Furthermore, these
       entities are selected competitively. Thus, currently the preferred supplier in
       Nicaragua is the private sector. This is a significant achievement after 10 years
       of IDA's involvement, given the previous period of operations was dominated by
       the public companies such as COERCO which carried out road improvement
       works by force account and did not perform very well.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

       The beneficiaries interviewed by the MTI were overall very positive about the
       project's achievements, and the improvements it bestowed on their daily
       activities. Annex 8 presents selected comments of beneficiary stakeholders about
       the poverty and social impacts of the rural roads stabilization component. In sum
       these include statements to the effect that (i) standards of living in terms of
       health and working conditions for local residents who use the adoquine rural
       roads on a daily basis have improved. This is because dust clouds/muddy
       nuisances have been removed and transiting the road now requires less time and
       effort; (ii) more transport services are being offered to residents now, because in
       the past operators were reluctant to enter areas with poor roads; (iii) there has
       been an increase in the commercialization of agriculture since they can more
       easily bring produce to market; and (iv) rural residents are more inclined to



                                            17

        borrow money and invest in their farms.




4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

        Rating: Moderate

        The level of risk to development outcomes is rated as modest on the basis of the
        existence of factors that would enhance the sustainability of the road investments
        financed under the project. Technical sustainability of physical investments in
        the transport sector made under the project is likely, given, on one hand, MTI's
        improved capacity to plan, program, and maintain the rehabilitated roads in a
        sustainable manner through the microenterprises program, and, on the other
        hand, by FOMAV's enhanced institutional and financial capacity to sustain the
        road improvements through the provision of maintenance. It has been estimated
        that FOMAV will receive sufficient revenues from user fees and government
        transfers to cover the costs of the entire maintainable network (all roads in good
        and fair condition). Some budgetary allocations will still be needed for the
        remainder of the unimproved network that remains the responsibility of MTI.
        Mitigation of risks to this development outcome has been provided particularly
        through the approval of the Fourth Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
        and the similar projects from IDB, the MCC, BCIE, and DANIDA. In addition,
        FOMAV will contribute to the financing of road maintenance contracts to be
        awarded by various rural municipalities, thereby further solidifying its mandate
        and expanding private sector participation.




5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

        Rating: Satisfactory

        Overall, the Bank's performance during preparation and appraisal was
        satisfactory. The project was prepared by a multidisciplinary team with
        additional inputs from the environmental and social sector experts. The project
        team that prepared the Third Bank-financed operation drew on the lessons
        learned from the First and Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
        Projects, which were very successful in their implementation and their
        contributions to improving the transport sector in Nicaragua. The project was
        also designed based on the Government's development strategy and in the
        context of the CAS and Donors transport strategies. There were also



                                            18

         complementary conditionality requirements, especially for road maintenance,
         under the IDA's Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC I & II), which proved
         to be helpful. In addition, there was a strong Bank effort to coordinate its
         interventions in the transport sector with ongoing efforts from other international
         financial organizations, particularly DANIDA and IDB for improving the key
         trunk corridors and to support the FOMAV road maintenance program. Quality
         at Entry is therefore rated as satisfactory.


(b) Quality of Supervision

          Rating: Highly Satisfactory

         The Bank team has carried out 23 missions, supervising project implementation
         while providing technical assistance and advice to MTI, since May 2000. The
         Bank provided training for the procurement and financial management team of
         the UCP, thus promoting fiduciary compliance during project implementation.
         Also, the Bank provided training in the use of the Highway Design and
         Maintenance Model 4 (HDM4) and Road Economic Decision Model (RED) so
         as to install and develop the Pavement Management System (PMS) and to
         develop the capacity of the staff of the Transport Directorate of MTI to carry out
         economic analyses. Project Supervision reports were generally well written and
         highlighted the key issues. Over the course of implementation, the project had
         the same Task Team Leader, and as a result of this continuity, adequate project
         supervision was fully ensured, as shown by the results on the ground.

         The Bank team pursued the improvement of FOMAV that was established under
         the First Road Project. FOMAV has grown considerably from its US$2.4 million
         program in the initial year; in 2006 the funded program was over US$18 million.
         These actions underscore positive steps toward sustainability of the roads
         improved by the IDA and under all other Donor-funded projects.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

          Rating: Highly Satisfactory

         Bank performance was rated highly satisfactory. This rating is supported by the
         project results and the achievement of objectives and physical outputs plus the
         coordination of plans and objectives with the broader IDA Poverty Reduction
         Program (PRSC I & II). Moreover, it is based on the appropriateness of the
         project design which focused on improving sector planning, attaining financial
         sustainability for road maintenance, and the promotion and development of the
         local construction industry through adoquine stabilization, which in turn
         simplified future maintenance roads needs.




                                              19

5.2 Borrower Performance

      NOTE: When the Government and implementing agency are indistinguishable,
      provide rating and justification only for Overall Borrower Performance.

(a) Government Performance

        Rating: Satisfactory

        Government performance is rated as satisfactory on the basis of its role during
        project preparation and implementation. Its performance during project
        preparation was satisfactory due to the setting of appropriate priorities for both
        rehabilitation and maintenance of the network following the damage caused by
        Hurricane Mitch. It had also organized a very good Donor conference at which
        the programs and priorities were explained, and this led to the success in
        obtaining financing. The subsequent development of the NDP during project
        implementation further focused its priorities and enhanced coordination of donor
        strategies. There was also adequate coordination and consistent dialogue
        between government officials and IDA and other Donors involved. The GON
        demonstrated its commitment to achieving the development objectives by
        providing support for the institutional reforms made under the project, for
        example, approving the FOMAV Law.

        Allocation of counterpart funding fluctuated during the period because the
        Nicaraguan economy was affected by several political and fiscal crises. This was
        a very difficult and polarizing political period. Despite the overarching problems,
        the Government was able to respond to implementation issues that required its
        attention. On balance, the satisfactory rating is justified due to the fact that most
        of the outcomes and outputs of the project were achieved satisfactorily.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

         Rating: Highly Satisfactory

        Implementing Agency: Implementing Agency (MTI and its UCP)

        Performance of the MTI and its UCP is rated highly satisfactory because most
        aspects of project management and administration were completed fully
        satisfactorily. It was especially so in terms of MTI/UCP management of the
        technical, economic, safeguards, and fiduciary requirements throughout the
        project cycle. The UCP was committed to achieving the Project Development
        Objectives. The staff of the UCP showed consistent capacity to handle project
        implementation and provide good coordination with the Dirección General de
        Vialidad and the Dirección General de Administración y Finanzas of MTI on the
        technical and financial aspects of the project. As a result, the project was well



                                             20

        managed, and implementation issues were solved promptly and adequately,
        including procurement and fiduciary tasks. Relationships between the different
        stakeholders were managed appropriately and the UCP was able to play its
        coordinating role between the different stakeholders such as Directorates within
        MTI, FOMAV, and among the microentrepreneurs and private contractors, in a
        highly satisfactory manner. Transition arrangements for activities supported by
        the project into regular operations were also carried out well. The studies for
        preparation of the Fourth transport project were completed on time, thereby
        allowing IDA to already approve and start up the Fourth Project (CR-4185 NI).
        The overall project management effort of the implementing agency has thus been
        very good and has been rated highly satisfactory.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

        Rating: Highly Satisfactory

        The rating for overall borrower performance is based on the satisfactory
        performance at preparation and appraisal and highly satisfactory management of
        project funds, good coordination, achievement of financial sustainability for
        FOMAV, and achievement of other project outputs as planned. These together
        contributed to a highly satisfactory overall outcome for the project.




6. Lessons Learned

        Importance of experience and lessons learned under previous projects. IDA
        and government experience from previous operations in the sector helped to
        enhance supervision effectiveness and ensured leadership and involvement
        during project implementation. Transport sector operations initiated by IDA had
        continuously pursued the objectives of improving managerial efficiency and
        reducing infrastructure bottlenecks in Nicaragua. In this context, each project
        was supportive in the introduction of innovative strategies such as road
        stabilization programs, sustainable mechanisms for periodic and routine
        maintenance, and expanding private sector participation in the sector.

        Bank and Government's proactive participation to manage change. During
        2002­05, Nicaragua was affected by a difficult political and economic climate
        which resulted in, among other things, a shortage of counterpart funds. Within
        this context, proactive actions from the Government and IDA were essential to
        ensure project financing and the achievement of the development objectives.
        Near the end of the project, there were repeated setbacks generated due to the
        unusual duration and intensity of the rainy seasons in Nicaragua. In this case,
        IDA supported three extensions of the closing date of the project, but for a total
        of only 18 months. Strong leadership, open communication between UCP staff



                                            21

and the task team leader, steady commitment, and attention to emergency issues
were essential to achieving results on the ground.

Establishing a Road Maintenance Fund is a difficult but worthwhile goal. The
implementation of a mechanism to finance periodic and routine maintenance
works has had a strong impact in promoting the sustainability of project
outcomes. It was accomplished in two steps. Initially, the FOMAV law was
developed under CR 2871-NI and it was established in 1998 as a legal entity, but
without a dedicated source of funding. This enabled the commencement of
maintenance by contract operations and the building of public support for
FOMAV. The next stage involved amending its law to incorporate a reliable
funding mechanism. After 2002 obtaining the approval of the fuel surcharge
became an increasingly difficult task as international oil prices rose and the
Administration's support in the Congress waned. In response, MTI developed a
program to build support for FOMAV with the public, construction industry,
municipal governments, and members of the Congress. The MTI thereby
initiated a series of dialogues with the public and the National Congress, and
with local and other levels of government, and completed the legal drafting of
the bill in 2004 for the mechanism needed to fully establish FOMAV. The
subsequent approval of the law and the establishment of reliable funding for
FOMAV since December 2005 is proving to be an important factor to ensuring
the maintenance of the road network.


Continual training of project staff unit can help compensate for frequent
turnover. Project staff turnover was beyond the control of the UCP and was
mainly due to political changes at higher levels of the MTI. However, this did
not prevent the UCP from performing satisfactorily, partly because continual
training events were implemented under the project for new staff. To a large
extent the Third project also benefited from the presence in various MTI
directorates and FOMAV of the cohort of staff that had received Master's
Degrees under the institutional program of the Second IDA Roads project (CR
3085-NI). Technical assistance, training, and equipment to improve the project's
management unit were key factors to ensuring the project's implementation
success.

Road Stabilization (Adoquine) Program is highly appropriate for the rural
poor. The PEA yielded several important advantages in terms of social and
economic outcomes. As a cost-effective rehabilitation method, the use of
adoquines reduced maintenance costs and facilitated the participation of small
local businesses. It also uses local technology and materials, supports bicycle
traffic, and has a very low environmental impact. The PEA has proved to be a
very effective instrument to generate productive short-term employment for
skilled and unskilled workers from the communities, through the mobilization of
local resources (material, labor, and technology), expansion of community and
local involvement in planning and decisionmaking, and the organization of



                                    22

        communities in addressing local needs. This type of program is very cost-
        effective and can produce positive social and economic impacts in the
        beneficiary zones.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

        The Borrower's comments were consistent with the ICR's assessment of the
        project. There were no major issues between the IDA and the MTI during
        project implementation. See Annex 7 for detailed MTI comments on project
        implementation.

(b) Cofinanciers

        Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

        Stakeholders have been pleased with the project and did not raise any issues.
        See Annex 8 for detailed comments on the rural roads stabilization component.




                                        23

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a)      Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)


        Components              Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest Estimate    Percentage of
                                   (US$ million)          (US$ million)        Appraisal

1. Road Rehabilitation and
Improvement Program                     36.4                 39.7                109.0%

2. Rural Transport
Improvement Program                     24.9                 28.3                113.6%

3. Road Network
Maintenance Program                     12.6                 10.0                79.4%


4. Capacity-building Program            8.1                  10.7                132.0%

         Total Baseline Cost            82.0                 88.7                108.2%

Physical Contingencies
                                        5.4                   0.0                 0.0%
Price Contingencies

         Total Project Costs            87.4                 88.7                101.5%

Project Preparation Facility
(PPF)                                   0.0                   0.0                  --

Front-end fee (IBRD only)               0.0                   0.0                  --

   Total Financing Required             87.4                 88.7                101.5%


(b)      Co-financing

                                               Appraisal        Actual/Latest
 Source of Funds            Type of                                             Percentage of
                           Financing            Estimate            Estimate
                                              (US$ million)     (US$ million)     Appraisal

[Government]                                     12.4                  5.6         45.2%
[IBRD/IDA]                                       75.0                  8.1         110.8%
[Donor A]             [WB-administered            --                   --            --
                      TF]
[Donor B]             [Parallel financing]        --                   --            --




                                                  24

Annex 2. Outputs by Component


The project achieved most of its outputs and the overall assessment of the project output
is rated satisfactory. The Bank's supportive attitude together with the GON and UCP
commitment toward the project were key elements for the accomplishment of the targets
set under each component.

Component 1: Road Rehabilitation Program (US$36.45 million estimated/ US$39.72
million actual cost). This component was intended to finance the rehabilitation of the
Managua-Izapa and the Muhan-El Rama sections, as part of the rehabilitation of the
Managua ­ Airport ­ San Benito ­ San Lorenzo ­ Muhan ­ El Rama road (290 km)
initiated under CR-3085-NI (1998-2005). Approximately US$36 million was assigned for
this component, whose physical targets were fully achieved as follows: (a) the Managua-
Izapa section works were divided in two contracts, executed between April 2002 and
November 2003, at a cost of US$20.9 million; and (b) the Muhan-El Rama section works
were divided into three contracts, which began in May 2002 and finished in September
2003, at a cost of US$18.8 million. At project completion, 152.9 km of primary trunk
roads were rehabilitated, at a total cost of US$39.7 million. The total cost exceeded the
estimated amount by US$3.3 million; the incremental cost was due to improvements of
the road pavement, and hydraulic and drainage works. Both sections were opened to
traffic by the end of 2004.

Component 2: Rural Transport Improvement Program (US$24.93 million estimated/
US$28.30 million actual cost). This component primarily sought to provide for the
stabilization of about 300 km of rural secondary and tertiary roads, through a restoration
program based on adoquines and gravel standards. All of the activities were completed
and the component is rated satisfactory due to the achievement of its desired outputs.

The Rural Roads Stabilization Program (PEA) has proved to offer several important
advantages: it reduces maintenance costs, increases the participation of small local
businesses, uses local technology and material, and has a very low environmental impact.
Under the PEA, a total of 203.5 km were restored with adoquines.

For the execution of the PEA, local private contractors selected through competitive bid
processes were used predominantly. For a few very short sections of roads, 32
community groups were organized as Módulos Comunitarios de Adoquinado (MCAs)
and they rehabilitated about 28 km of the PEA total. In terms of the supply of adoquines,
private companies increased their production capacity from 2.8 million per month to 6.0
million per month. For some firms, this was sufficient to justify the modernization of
their factories, thus leaving the country with a more efficient and greater installed
production capacity than that existing before the project. Also as a result of the PEA, it
was estimated by MTI that about 7,960 skilled and unskilled workers were employed,
and over 200,000 rural community residents benefited.

Component 3: Road Maintenance Program (US$12.65 million estimated/ US$10.04



                                             25

million actual cost). The component was divided into three subcomponents that included
the implementation of: (a) periodic maintenance by private contractors, (b) routine
maintenance by microenterprises, and (c) the Road Maintenance Fund (FOMAV). This
component is rated highly satisfactory.

In relation to the first subcomponent, the goal was to continue with the periodic
maintenance program initiated under the previous project and managed by MTI. This
program was a demonstration program intended to foster the use of private contractors,
and in addition it was to be used to introduce new technologies for asphalt pavements.
Hence, the periodic maintenance activities were implemented by private contractors and
included the application of new construction procedures and materials to achieve longer-
lasting performance for crack-filling, patching, road signaling, road widening, and
asphalt-covering works. In sum, about 82.8 km of periodic road maintenance was carried
out. Implementation of periodic maintenance works was also ensured with technical
assistance and capacity-building activities (which included the application of the HDM-4
model) provided by MTI.

With regard to the second subcomponent, this was an extension of the routine
maintenance program by microenterprises that originally started under CR-2871NI.
During project implementation, five additional microenterprises were formed in order to
serve over 600 km per year. At the end of the project, there were 33 microenterprises,
which maintain a total of approximately 2,164 km. The creation of these new enterprises
has generated an estimated 411 new job opportunities for skilled and unskilled workers,
and benefited rural and semi-rural areas with a combined population of over 1,887,000.
Activities carried out by the microenterprises comprised: clearing the roadway, clearing
and building road drains, channeling waters, cleaning bridges, controlling vegetation, and
clearing gutters and landslides. The total cost of the overall maintenance program was
US$7.7 million, which is close to the US$8.0 million originally budgeted.

In terms of the third subcomponent, the most important achievement was the approval of
the reform to the FOMAV Law, which established the levying of a surcharge on fuels.
During the project implementation period, FOMAV maintained 348.12 km very
successfully and attained a positive public image. The spot improvement/periodic
maintenance program under FOMAV administration had a total cost of US$2.3 million at
the end of the project, slightly under the US$2.5 million initially expected. Once the bill
to reform the FOMAV Law was approved and the implementation capacity-building
program know as the Fondo Semilla took place, the periodic maintenance and routine
maintenance by microenterprises were transferred from MTI to FOMAV administration
as required under the Fourth IDA project.

Other successful results achieved through this component's implementation included the
reduction of COERCO (Force Account Units) participation and the institutional
strengthening of microenterprises associates and FOMAV staff.

Component 4: Institutional and Technical Development Program (US$8.1 million
estimated/ US$11.04 million actual cost). This component is rated satisfactory since



                                            26

estimated outputs were satisfactorily attained. Subcomponents included in this program
mainly focused on the provision of technical assistance and capacity-building activities.

In terms of technical assistance and support provided, the activities financed by this
component included: (a) consultancy services for design and supervision studies of
rehabilitation and maintenance works (Components 1 and 2); (b) the design and
supervision of the overall contract maintenance program, and especially for the
establishment of FOMAV; and (c) technical assistance, training, and equipment for
updating road condition inventories and prioritizing investments and maintenance
programs using the Bank's HDM and RED models.

The safeguards program also included implementation of a reforestation program near the
Bluefields Town, in a nearby corridor connecting the Cerro Wawasan and Cerro Silva
protected areas. This was intended to compensate partially for the indirect effects of road
projects.

Training and capacity-building activities were organized according to a plan agreed
between IDA and MTI, which had successful results. As part of this plan, a total of 100
events were conducted for MTI and FOMAV staff: 68 local events with an attendance of
475 MTI staff, and 32 international training events with the participation of 64 staff.
Training events for MTI and FOMAV staff focused mainly on contract management,
project design and implementation, design and implementation of training programs,
traffic origin-destination surveys, and development of transport sector planning, among
others. With regard to microenterprises, capacity-building events aimed to strengthen
organizational aspects such as teamwork, administration, task programming, cost control,
accounting, report writing, legal and tax affairs, and administration of their contracts. A
total of 396 microentrepreneurs attended training events.




                                           27

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


Road Rehabilitation Component

                                           Table 1
                                  Economic Costs and Benefits
                                 Road Rehabilitation Program
                        Length             Costs             NPV1              IERR2

     Section             (km)          (US$/km 000)         (US$000)            (%)
                    SAR
                  Estimate   Actual   SAR
                                     Estimate   Actual   SAR
                                                        Estimate Actual    SAR
                                                                         Estimate  Actual

 Managua ­
 Izapa               62.4      61.5   1,130    1,816.09 17,500   84,717    34.6      50.2

 Las
 Piedrecitas ­       4.2        4.2    400      616.14    900    10,164     20       50.9
 Km11
 La Refineria ­
 Km 13.4             4.8        4.8    400      616.14   2,400    8,344     27       41.6

 Km 13.4 ­
 Nagarote            27.6      28.3    165      308.07   7,500   27,423     36       44.4

 Nagarote ­
 Emp. Izapa          25.8      24.2    165      275.74   6,700   38,786     37       58.8

 Muhan ­ El
 Rama                90.2      90.3    337      638.79   9,400   13,617    23.8      22.2

 Muhan ­ La
 Gateada             20.0      21.0    150      254.69   2,000    4,886     20       24.2

 La Gateada ­
 Esperanza           61.3      60.3    95       190.40   6,600    7,596     25       21.4

 Esperanza ­
 El Rama             8.9        9.0    92       193.70    800     1,135     25       21.3

      Total         152.6     151.8   1,467    2,454.88 26,900   98,334     28       39.2
1. Net Present Value.
2. Internal Economic Rate of Return.

The ex ante cost-benefit analysis included the two main components of the project: (a)
road rehabilitation, and (b) the rural road program.

Under the road rehabilitation component, an economic ex post assessment of the roads
was carried out. The data were obtained from MTI (2005 and 2006 traffic levels, actual
construction costs, and maintenance cost estimates) for each of the road sections. The
results for the project were an NPV of US$98.334 million and an IERR of 39.2 percent,
which is higher than originally expected. This is also shown in the analysis of each
section, as shown in Table 1. Only in the cases of the road sections La Gateada-La
Esperanza and La Esperanza-El Rama, are the IERR slightly lower than those originally
projected, 21.4 percent and 21.3 percent, respectively, due to the increase in construction
costs. However, the rates of returns are still robust.

A sensitivity analysis was also performed on the basis of an increase of 20 percent in
costs and a similar reduction of benefits. The results obtained show that the economic



                                              28

indicators remain positive.

As part of this road component, a considerable reduction in the cost of vehicle operation
was achieved. This is due to the improvement in the level of road roughness (according to
the International Road Roughness Index, IRI), which was reduced to 2 m/km for both
sections, compared to what it was before, that is, 6 m/km (Managua-Izapa), and 9 and 10
m/km (Muhan-El Rama). Other benefits obtained through the rehabilitation of the
aforementioned road sections are the reduction in travel time of passengers and of
maintenance costs.

Rural Road Improvement Program

                                                       Table 2
                                           Economic Costs and Benefits
                                    Rural Transport Improvement Program
                                                                          Economic Indicators

                  Section                   Department   Length                   NPV1
                                                          (km)      Costs                    IERR2  AADT3
                                                                 (000 US$/km)      (000
                                                                                  US$)        (%)

  North (of Managua)                                      86.89    1, 668.73     11, 901      25.2   457
 Santa Cruz/Lím Mcpal Estelí-San
 Nicolás                                                  5.40      110.76          16        12.4   230
                                              Estelí
 Lím Mcpal Estelí-San Nicolás-San
 Nicolás                                                  7.62      111.71          29        12.5   230

 Lím Mcpal San Fernando-Japala/Emp. El
 Jícaro                                                   9.20      136.63         409        16.6   291

 Emplame El Jícaro/Inicio Zona Urbana-
 Japala                                                   6.10      132.69         866        25.2   408

 Japala-Teotecacinte I                                    7.68      122.36        1,836       42.0   634
 Japala-Teotecacinte II                                   6.00      123.97        1,414       40.5   634
 Japala-Teotecacinte III                   Nueva Segovia  6.00      115.30        1,452       42.9   634
 Emp. Susucayan Santa Clara ­ FZU San
 Fernando                                                 10.20     202.12          109       12.8   291

 Inicio ZU San Fernando-Mozote                            8.76      158.28        3,919       42.2   892
 LM San Fernando/Japala-Emp.
 Susucayan Tramo I                                        5.48      158.71          652       21.7   408

 LM San Fernando/Japala-Emp.
 Susucayan Tramo II                                       5.58      167.88          616       20.6   408

 Sotomo-San Lucas                            Madriz       8.87      128.32          583       18.5   427
  South                                                   50.13     784.17        2,163       15.8   397
 Sapoá-Cárdenas (Tramo I y II)                            15.18     256.98        1,898       1.5    168
 Isla de Ometepe (Moyogalpa-Altagracia)       Rivas
 Tramo I y II                                             20.83     243.26         172        12.5   294

 Masaya-Las Flores                           Masaya       6.20      148.23        1,923       35.0   989
 Masaya-Tisma (Tramo I)                                   7.92      135.70        1,966       37.0   642
 Roads with National Funds                                24.19     591.46        1,826       18.8   343
 Santa Rosa-Palacaguina                      Madriz       4.15      141.16        1,609       44.9   989
 Emp. El Jícaro-FZU Jalapa                                2.00      120.46         325        33.0   408
 Ocotal-Macuelizo Tramo I                  Nueva Segovia  6.00       93.58          52        13.5   187
 Ocotal-Macuelizo Tramo II                                6.00      118.81          83        10.0   187
 Ocotal-Macualizo Tramo III                               6.04      117.45          77        10.2   187

                   Total                                 161.21    3,044.36      15,890       21.3   421
1. Net Present Value (NPV).
2. Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR).
3. Annual Average Daily Traffic (AADT).


For the ex post economic analysis, a sample of 16 road sections was selected, equivalent
to US$3 million in investment costs, as shown in Table 2.



                                                        29

The economic assessment was performed applying the simplified model for road
investment, known as the Road Economic Decision Model (RED).1 The data used are
derived from the completed projects and are also obtained from the MTI statistical
database. The results of the evaluation showed an IERR of 21.3 percent and an NPV of
US$15.890 million at a 12 percent discount rate, over a 20-year evaluation period. The
program also generated positive results in terms of: performance, reduction of future
maintenance costs, stabilization of roads, and use of local resources (labor force and
material), and the promotion of bicycle use. The RED model does not allow capturing
the economic benefits of the increase in Non-motorized Transport (NMT) such as by
bicycle users, due to the adoquine road stabilization.




1 The RED model evaluates net benefits of project alternatives characterized by the average level of service
provided during the evaluation period; it also estimates the costs of vehicle operation and the cost of travel
time using the HDM3 relations.




                                                    30

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team Members



            Names                     Title         Unit       Responsibility/
                                                                  Specialty
Lending
Emmanuel James            Transport Specialist     LCSFT Team Leader
Adán Cajina               Consultant               LCSFT Technical Aspects
Juan Quintero             Environmentalist         LCSEN Environmental Analysis
Elena Correa              Sociologist              LCSES Social Assessment
Roque Ardon               Financial Specialist     LOAAS Financial Mgt
Livio Pino                Accountant               LOAAS Financial Mgt
Rodrigo Archondo Callao   Transport Specialist     TUDTR Economic Evaluation

Supervision/ICR
Emmanuel James            Transport Specialist     LCSTR Team Leader
Irani G. Escolano         Procurement Specialist   LCSPT Procurement
Mary Lisbeth Gonzalez     Consultant               LCSEN Sociologist
George Campos Ledec       Ecologist                LCSEN Environmentalist
Elena Correa              Sociologist              LCSES Social Aspects
Enrique Roman             Financial Specialist     LCCNI Financial Mgt
Adán Cajina               Consultant               LCSFT Technical Aspects
Emma Cubillas             Consultant               LCSTR Procurement
Juan de Vicentini         Consultant               LCSTR Technical Assistance
German Escobar            Consultant               LCSTR Financial Mgt
Oswaldo Patiño            Consultant               LCSTR Institutional Specialist




                                            31

(b) Staff Time

                                                         Staff Time
                   Stage of Project Cycle               No. of staff weeks
 Fiscal Year                  Lending
    2000    LEN-BB -NI Road Rehab. and Maintenance           9.27
    2001    LEN-BB -NI Road Rehab. and Maintenance          20.71




                                                  Total:    29.98
 Fiscal Year              Supervision/ICR


    2002    SPN-BB -NI Road Rehab. and Maintenance           9.25
    2003    SPN-BB -NI Road Rehab. and Maintenance           9.27
    2004    SPN-BB -NI Road Rehab. and Maintenance          17.87
    2005    SPN-BB -NI Road Rehab. and Maintenance          14.53
    2006    SPN-BB -NI Road Rehab. and Maintenance          14.07
    2007    SPN-BB -NI Road Rehab. and Maintenance          12.42
    2008    SPN-BB -NI Road Rehab. and Maintenance            2.70
                                                  Total:    80.11
                                                  Total:    110.09




Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A


Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

 N/A




                                       32

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                    INFORME FINAL POR EL PRESTATARIO

 1. Evaluación de los Objetivos

 El Tercer Proyecto de Rehabilitación y Mantenimiento de Carreteras fue ejecutado de
 forma satisfactoria. Se logró la reducción de los costos de operación vehicular en los
 tramos Managua­Izapa (62.59 km) y Muhan­El Rama (90.30 km), al disminuir el IRI
 de 5 y 6 m/km en el primer tramo y de 9 y 10 m/km en el segundo hasta 1.5 y 2 m/km.
 En total, se benefició directamente a 3'140,374 personas que viven a lo largo de las
 vías.

 Se atendió aproximadamente 287 km de vías rurales, de los cuales, 204 corresponden
 a caminos rehabilitados por medio de adoquines y 83 km fueron mejorados con
 actividades de nivelación y conformación en las zonas rurales seleccionadas. Como
 resultado, se logró la disminución de la tarifa del servicio rural de transporte, el
 incremento del número de unidades de transporte público, la reducción del costo de
 operación vehicular al disminuir el IRI de 15 y 18 m/km a 4,5 y 5 m/km, la generación
 de 23,205 empleos directos y 8 126 indirectos, y el beneficio directo de 298,739
 pobladores.

 En cuanto a mantenimiento vial por contrato, se dio mantenimiento periódico a 44.02
 km y, mantenimiento rutinario a 386.95 km. En este componente se encuentra incluido
 el Mantenimiento Periódico, bajo la administración del MTI, con una ejecución
 acumulada de 82.8 Km. Adicionalmente tenemos el mantenimiento ejecutado por el
 FOMAV con una meta alcanzada de 348.12 Km, para un total de 430.97 Km. El
 mantenimiento rutinario de 2 164 km fue realizado por 33 microempresas. Esto generó
 empleo directo a más de 411 personas e indirectos a cerca de 2,466 personas; en total,
 se benefició a una población directa de 1'887,303 habitantes. Asimismo, se
 incrementó la participación del sector privado en las actividades de mantenimiento
 periódico, implementando por primera vez nuevas técnicas y materiales (adoquín), en
 los contratos administrados en el MTI y el FOMAV.

 2. Componentes Original y Revisado

 Componentes originales: El costo total del proyecto es de US$75.00 millones
 provenientes del crédito y US$12.44 millones del aporte local. Estos montos no
 incluyen impuestos ni gastos operativos. El crédito se distribuyó en las cinco
 categorías siguientes: (1) Obras Civiles: (a) rehabilitación de la carretera Managua­
 Mateare­Izapa (62.65 km) y Muhan­El Rama (90.30 km), para un total de 152.95 km,
 (b) mejoras en el transporte rural (300 km), (c) mantenimiento periódico bajo la
 administración del MTI y el FOMAV (600 km), y (d) mantenimiento rutinario (1,800



                                         33

km); (2) Bienes; (3) Servicios de Consultorías; (4) Capacitación Institucional a las
Microempresas y al FOMAV; y (5) No Asignados. El proyecto se trabajó con una tasa
de retorno planeada de 28.70%, un valor presente neto de US$95.00 millones; para las
carreteras principales, una TIR del 29%; y para el programa de caminos rurales, una
TIR variable.

Componentes revisados: El proyecto fue implementado satisfactoriamente. El monto
ejecutado con recursos del crédito de la AIF fue de US$83.3 millones y el de aporte
local, de US$5.7 millones. Se ha atendido de forma integral los corredores principales
con la cooperación de otros donantes, con el fin de mejorar el nivel de servicio del
transporte nacional e internacional; se redujo los costos de operación vehicular en más
de un 20%; los tiempos de viajes se redujeron de doce a cinco horas para el caso de
Muhan ­ El Rama, y de diez a cinco horas para el corredor de Managua ­ El
Guasaule; se ha mejorado la seguridad vial y se ha implementado las normas sociales
de la AIF para el proyecto de Managua (Las Piedrecitas)-Nagarote-Izapa, en el que se
construyó doce viviendas para reubicar a las familias cuyas moradas estaban dentro
del derecho de vía.

Además, se ha fortalecido las capacidades institucionales en el manejo de contratos
para el mantenimiento vial a nivel del MTI y el FOMAV. Se ha atendido más de 2,100
km con mantenimiento rutinario realizado por las microempresas, y más de 348 km,
con el mantenimiento periódico de red vial pavimentada.

En adición, se estableció el Programa de Mejoras del Transporte Rural en los
departamentos de Nueva Segovia, Madriz, Estelí, Masaya y Rivas con una meta de
286.53 km con adoquinado y nivelación de la superficie existente, contratando
empresas establecidas y módulos comunitarios de adoquinado (MCA). Los resultados
son altamente satisfactorios, pues se redujo el IRI de 18 a 5 m/km, se ahorró más del
30% en los costos de operación vehicular y se la generó empleo local en más del 70%,
con un promedio de 150 personas km/mes.

El citado programa ha mejorado sustancialmente el espectro socioeconómico de la
población beneficiaria en términos de salud, educación, movilidad, transitabilidad,
ingresos anuales por áreas de siembra, accesos a créditos, mejores y más rutas de
transporte colectivo, fortalecimiento de las capacidades municipales, capacitación y
adiestramiento de la mano de obra local, fortalecimiento de las empresas privadas que
fabrican adoquinados y de las empresas de supervisión ligada a la calidad de los
materiales y de las obras.

También se llevó a cabo los servicios de consultoría para el diseño y supervisión de
obras, para la rehabilitación y los proyectos de adoquinado, auditorías externas,
estudios ambientales en zonas de reservas nacional e internacional (RESA); la
realización de la reforestación en la reserva de Mohagany con la participación los
propietarios de fincas y con una ONG; los diseños de nuevos proyectos para el cuarto
convenio de crédito CR-4185-NI; la continuidad de la evaluación de la línea de base
del adoquinado en conexión con las mejoras del transporte rural, y la capacitación en



                                          34

cursos nacionales e internacionales de 539 participantes y de aproximadamente 396
socios de microempresas.

2.1. Componente de Rehabilitación
La rehabilitación del corredor Managua­El Rama (290 km) estratégicamente fue
programada para que se ejecutara con la participación del Banco Mundial (BM), BID
y DANIDA, para cumplir con los objetivos de garantizar una vía de comunicación con
la zona del Atlántico, en conexión con el puerto El Rama y Bluefields; pues, por ser
una vía colectora principal, se beneficia todo el cluster ganadero y lechero de los
departamentos de Boaco, Chontales y la RAAS. El costo total del corredor fue
US$113.46 millones, de los cuales US$38.05, correspondiente al 34% de la inversión
total en una longitud total de 120 km, fueron financiados por el BM. En términos
reales, se ha finalizado las obras en todo el corredor y se ha logrado las metas físicas y
de impacto económico y social.

Igualmente, el corredor natural centroamericano, de una longitud de 222.29 km se
desarrolla con un costo total de US$99.17 millones. La coordinación entre donantes
tiene como objetivos mejorar el servicio de transporte nacional e internacional,
garantizar el transporte regional hacia los puertos de Corinto y El Limón en Honduras,
disminuir los costos de operación vehicular, vincular la demanda del transporte en
conexión con los acuerdos regionales con el SIECA, el Plan Puebla ­ Panamá y la
implementación del DR-CAFTA. De manera particular, con el convenio de crédito
CR-3464-NI, se ejecutó dos tramos de carreteras, con una longitud total de 152.89 km
y una inversión de US$46'146,850 miles.

En cuanto a los aspectos ambientales y sociales, la Unidad Ambiental del MTI ha
participado directamente, durante las etapas de diseño, ejecución y evaluación, y en la
aplicación de las normativas nacionales e internacionales. Las tareas principales han
sido: (a) protección de aguas y de suelos, manejo de bancos de materiales, protección
a la fauna y flora, elaboración de proyectos forestales, planes de manejo y gestión
ambiental; (b) supervisión de los aspectos ambientales durante la construcción,
seguimiento a las medidas de mitigación establecidas en los documentos de licitación
consolidados en los estudios ambientales, coordinando su cumplimiento con las
instancias involucradas; (c) cumplir con base legal ambiental.

Otra experiencia positiva ha sido la implementación de las normas sociales relativas al
reasentamiento voluntario de pobladores ubicados en el derecho de vía. Para el tramo
de carretera Las Piedrecitas­Nagarote­Izapa, la División de Gestión Ambiental
(DGA) asumió el reasentamiento de doce familias afectadas. Las principales acciones
de intervención social fueron: (a) elaboración de un diagnostico socioeconómico de la
población afectada; (b) coordinación a través de reuniones con la alcaldía municipal
de Nagarote, para buscar una solución conjunta y el apoyo de la municipalidad al
proyecto de reasentamiento; (c) donación de terreno por parte de la municipalidad y
apoyo en materiales menores de construcción; (d) establecimientos de metodología de
autoconstrucción de viviendas con un enfoque de género y preparación psicológica al
grupo de trabajo de las familias afectadas y a las familias receptoras del grupo



                                          35

trasladado: se hizo las coordinaciones para realizar la inserción socioeconómica del
grupo en la nueva comunidad; y (e) supervisión y monitoreo, técnica y conjuntamente
el MTI y la alcaldía, del desarrollo de los trabajos de autoconstrucción.

Con relación a la carretera Muhan­El Rama, se brindó seguimiento al plan establecido
para la organización del proceso de reubicación de negocios y/o viviendas situadas en
el derecho de vía en los tres tramos de carretera. La DGA brindó materiales y
transportes necesarios. Los casos resueltos fueron 72.

También     se   impartió   talleres  de    educación    vial-ambiental, de  vigilancia
epidemiológica y de capacitación sobre higiene y salud ocupacional.

2.2. Mejoras del Transporte Rural
Se implementó el Plan Especial de Adoquinado en caminos rurales ubicados en las
diferentes zonas productivas del país. Como resultado, se logró lo siguiente: (a)
mejorar el nivel de servicio, reducir costos y contribuir con el desarrollo
socioeconómico; (b) generar 7,960 empleos directos y, aproximadamente, 11,940
empleos indirectos; (c) contribuir al desarrollo de la industria del concreto; (d)
desarrollar un programa de cobertura a nivel nacional; y (v) ejecutar la estabilización
de 175.71 km con la empresa privada (contratistas) y 27.82 km con los Módulos
Comunitarios de Adoquinado (MCA); además de 19.34 km con financiamiento del
BCIE; para un total de 222.87 km y más de 83.00 km de nivelación de la superficie de
caminos rurales. Se contrató 32 MCA que fueron contratados para ejecutar 27.82 km
en total. Como resultado de la ejecución de este componente, se generó
aproximadamente 23,205 empleos directos y se benefició directamente a pobladores
que viven a lo largo de los caminos rurales beneficiados (298 739 personas).

2.3. Componente de Mantenimiento Vial
Con la ejecución de este componente se obtuvo los siguientes resultados: (a) se creó
un programa de mantenimiento de rutina con la participación de la comunidad, a
través de la formación de microempresas de mantenimiento vial (la meta era formar
cinco cooperativas adicionales a las existentes y atender 600 km adicionales de
carreteras, para así contar en total con 33 microempresas y atender más de 1,800 km);
(b) se creó un programa de mantenimiento periódico con soporte técnico-económico y
utilizando el modelo HDM-3 y nuevos materiales y procedimientos constructivos; y
(c) se creó y consolidó el FOMAV.

En este componente, se encuentra incluido el mantenimiento periódico, bajo la
administración del MTI, y el mantenimiento ejecutado por el FOMAV. Ambas
instituciones tienen una ejecución acumulada de 430.97 km, de los cuales, en 44.02
km se utiliza técnicas para actividades periódicas y en 386.95 km, técnicas para
actividades rutinarias con una inversión global aproximada de US$4 845 880. Los
resultados de este componente fueron satisfactorios en términos de metas, el uso del
HDM en su evaluación, las nuevas técnicas usadas y la participación del sector
privado, bajo procedimientos competitivos públicos y nacionales.




                                          36

2.4. Fortalecimiento Institucional

Como parte del fortalecimiento, se ha realizado las compras de bienes, como bienes de
oficina, transporte y herramientas de trabajo para mejorar la gestión del personal del
MTI. Este componente comprendió la asistencia técnica, capacitación y estudios
necesarios para ayudar al MTI a ejecutar el proyecto y dirigir mejor el desarrollo del
sector de carreteras o caminos. El apoyo de la AIF se empleó principalmente para el
monitoreo del desempeño, la administración de los contratos, los estudios de origen y
destino del tráfico, organización de la revisión anual del sector de transporte,
formulación y supervisión del programa global de mantenimiento por contrato y el
establecimiento del FOMAV.

Además, incluyó lo siguiente: supervisión de las obras de rehabilitación, supervisión
del mantenimiento periódico y del FOMAV, diseño de caminos rurales, supervisión de
las obras de adoquinado, realización del estudio de la línea de base del adoquinado,
estudio ambiental y socio-regional (RESA, por sus siglas en inglés), proyecto de
reforestación, auditoría externa y los estudios y diseños de carreteras y caminos. La
capacitación a nivel del MTI, FOMAV y microempresas fue un aspecto importante del
fortalecimiento institucional.

En cuanto al MTI, el plan de capacitación para el fortalecimiento institucional, nace de
una encuesta para conocer las necesidades de cada una de sus direcciones generales.
Come resultado, se priorizó las siguientes: planificación y programación de las
inversiones y el mantenimiento vial, así como el fortalecimiento del PMS, la Unidad
Ambiental, la Dirección de Adquisiciones, de las Unidades Coordinadoras de
Proyectos (UCP) de la Dirección General de Vialidad (DGV), del personal de apoyo
de los proyectos, y de las áreas de contabilidad, presupuestaria, financiera, legal,
supervisión y auditorías. Todo esto se tradujo en un Plan de Capacitación Trianual
acordado entre el MTI, la AIF y el FOMAV. El total de eventos realizados, entre
cursos, seminarios y talleres, fue de cien para 539 participantes.

En relación con la capacitación de las microempresas, se ha capacitado a más de 396
socios de microempresas de mantenimiento vial. Los temas trabajados estaban
relacionados con los aspectos organizativos, trabajo en equipo, administración,
aspectos legales de impuestos y administración de sus contratos.

3. Costos y Montos Totales del Proyecto

El costo total del proyecto es de US$89,0 millones, de los cuales US$83,3 millones
corresponden al aporte de la AIF del BM, y US$5,7 millones al aporte local. Este
monto incluye impuestos y gastos operativos, y el aporte con recursos del crédito
corresponde al 93.60%. El crédito está distribuido en cinco categorías: (1) Obras
Civiles: (a) rehabilitación de la carretera Managua - Nagarote ­ Izapa y Muham ­ El
Rama, (b) mejoras del trasporte rural (300 km), (c) mantenimiento periódico realizado
por el MTI y el FOMAV (600 km), (d) mantenimiento rutinario (1 800 km); (2)



                                          37

Bienes; (3) Servicios de Consultorías; (4) Capacitación Institucional del MTI,
Microempresas y FOMAV; y (5) No asignados .

Las metas y objetivos fueron cumplidos a satisfacción como se indica en el PAD y el
convenio de crédito CR-3464-NI. El monto total invertido es de US$83.3 millones con
recursos del crédito, superior a los US$75.0 millones programados. El monto adicional
representa la ganancia de los Derechos Especiales de Giros con relación al dólar
estadounidense, la cual fue invertida para obtener más metas físicas que las
programadas.

4. Evaluación sobre el Mantenimiento de Carreteras

El Gobierno de Nicaragua en función de garantizar la sostenibilidad del
mantenimiento vial de la red vial nacional y cumplir con los compromisos adquiridos
con la AIF del Banco Mundial, promueve planes y programas que incluyen
actividades de mantenimiento rutinario y periódico. De esta forma, se espera preservar
la inversión en la rehabilitación y modernización de las carreteras principales y
caminos secundarios; así como la priorización de los caminos de mayor importancia
en carácter de producción.

En este contexto, dentro de los componentes del convenio de crédito CR-3464-NI, se
incorporó el componente de mantenimiento vial, que establece la ejecución de
mantenimiento rutinario por medio de ME, y mantenimiento periódico bajo la
administración del MTI y el FOMAV. El cumplimiento de este componente ha sido
satisfactorio, y se ha logrado el apoyo de DANIDA, BCIE, BID, entre otros con el fin
de dar continuidad a este sistema de conservación vial y el fortalecimiento del sistema
de gestión de mantenimiento vial. Como parte de estos logros se pueden mencionar la
aprobación a la reforma de la Ley 355 (Ley del Fondo de Mantenimiento Vial) y su
reglamentación, en la que se garantizan los fondos para el mantenimiento vial a través
de tarifas ligadas al combustible. Por otra parte, el Gobierno de Nicaragua continúa
realizando esfuerzos en la asignación de recursos para el mantenimiento vial por
medio del presupuesto de la Republica de Nicaragua; ya sea al MTI, IDR, e INIFOM.

5. Evaluación del Fortalecimiento de la Construcción

Los resultados son satisfactorios, en términos de participación del sector privado en la
ejecución de las obras de rehabilitación y mantenimiento de carreteras. Se ha
adquirido experiencia en el manejo de contratos con reglas de la AIF del BM.
Además, se ha adquirido conocimientos en el diseño de proyectos con fronteras en el
monto de inversiones, tomando en cuenta la justificación técnica, ambiental y técnica;
en las nuevas formas de ejecutar las obras, al utilizar reciclaje y la estabilización con
cemento; y en la ejecución de los proyectos de adoquinado, etc.

6. Papel del Banco

El papel de la AIF del BM ha sido muy satisfactorio, a través de la participación del



                                         38

task manager del proyecto, en lo relacionado con la formulación integral y bien
estructurada del proyecto, la tarea de modernizar la red vial principal, las mejoras de la
red vial rural, la participación en la formación del FOMAV, y el fortalecimiento de la
institucionalidad del sector transporte para mejorar el servicio a otros sectores
económicos y sociales.

El Banco ha participado en más de veinticinco misiones de trabajo, incluyendo cuatro
misiones de identificación y preparación del Tercer Proyecto de Rehabilitación y
Mantenimiento de Carreteras, y 21 misiones de evaluación o supervisión desde el 05
de mayo de 2000 a mayo de 2006. Asimismo, dado el conocimiento del Banco en el
sector transporte, el proyecto resulta consistente con las políticas establecidas en el
Plan Nacional de Transporte (PNT) y en el Plan Nacional de Desarrollo (PND), así
como con las metas del CAS, en términos de apoyar el crecimiento económico y
social, la generación de empleo y disminuir los niveles de pobreza.

Además, el Banco ha asistido a la UCP en mejorar las gestiones en términos de
adquisiciones, administración financiera, el seguimiento a contratos, diseños de
proyectos y costos en correspondencia con lo planeado y la implementación de las
normas sociales en proyectos viales; ha participado activamente en la solución
oportuna de situaciones que afectaron el proyecto, asignando especialistas para
elaborar planes de trabajo alternativos o específicos; y participó en la realización del
primer proyecto de impacto regional e internacional, a nivel de factibilidad ambiental
(RESA) del Proyecto de Rehabilitación de Naciones Unidas ­ Bluefields, con la
coordinación de DANIDA.

7. Papel del Prestatario

El MTI, por medio de la UCP, ejecutó el proyecto satisfactoriamente. La UCP ha
mantenido y usado un sistema integrado automatizado de administración de proyectos,
el cual ha garantizado el registro de todas las operaciones financieras, contables,
adquisiciones, desembolsos y seguimiento físico de los proyectos. Además, asignó los
recursos de aporte local para ejecutar los proyectos y para gastos operativos de la
UCP. Por otro lado, ha aplicado las normas de adquisiciones, financieras y de
auditorías, de forma satisfactoria para la AIF del BM; implementó el proyecto con
base al Manual de Operaciones y el Manual de Administración Financiera, realizó los
diseños de los proyectos y las adquisiciones en plazos satisfactorios, así como la
supervisión de los proyectos para garantizar la calidad y magnitud de sus obras.

Asimismo, la UCP se ha fortalecido y mantenido buenas relaciones con el personal del
Banco, ha cumplido con todas las normas y compromisos adquiridos. Además, el
prestatario ha aportado recursos adicionales a lo establecido en el convenio de crédito
para cubrir costos por imprevistos de precios en los combustibles y en algunos
contratos de adoquinado y los impuestos locales.

8. Factores que Afectaron la Implementación y Resultados del Proyecto




                                          39

La elaboración de los diseños finales de ingeniería ajustándose a normativas
internacionales demandó más recursos que los estimados en el PAD. Por ello, fue
necesario incrementar los costos, o hacer ajustes, en la etapa de construcción, lo que
demandó tiempo y la reducción de las asignaciones de montos en el PAD para no
afectar las metas acordadas.

La aplicación del Sistema Integrado de Gestión Administrativa y Auditoria (SIGFA) y
de la Ley 550 de Administración Financiera introdujo normas y procedimientos
adicionales a los acordados con la AIF del BM, lo cual alargó los tiempos para realizar
pagos a contratistas.




                                        40

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and other Partners/Stakeholders

The following comments were extracted from the results of the various surveys carried
out by MTI along roads that were stabilized (adoquine) under the project.

A. Improvement in standards of living and working conditions: safer and healthier
roads in the Somoto-San Lucas section.

 Standards of living in terms of health and working conditions for the local settlers who
 use this road section on a daily basis have been improved, since transiting the road now
 demands less time and effort.

 The comings and goings through dusty and muddy roads will no longer be a nightmare
 for Julia Muñoz Ponce, a 75-year-old woman who travels long distances every day to
 sell her agricultural products from Santa Isabel community, some 5 kilometers away
 from the Somoto Municipality.

 For Ms. Muñoz, it was a great challenge to deliver the merchandise she sells in the
 Somoto market, because the road between Somoto municipality and San Lucas was
 terrible. Conditions were even worse during the winter, when "we only step on mud the
 whole journey, which made us get up at dawn so we could return early to our homes,"
 Ms. Muñoz recalls.

 Today, the 8.4-kilometer road between Somoto and San Lucas is completely changed
 and the population has a completely adoquine road. Ms. Muñoz and municipality
 officials are satisfied with the Rural Roads Stabilization Program (PEA).

 "This project is great; thank God and the MTI for this first-class road. It used to be
 dangerous, there were lots of wild spots and we were afraid. Now it is clear and we have
 a nice road to use," Ms. Muñoz said.


B. Reduction of vehicle maintenance costs and expanded transport services
(Masaya-Las Flores sector)

   Adoquine stabilization works have increased the possibilities of transit between the
   communities. This greater transit is due mainly to the reduction of the maintenance
   costs for the transport operators, who formerly did not go to those locations due to the
   problems with the rural roads.

   Javier Borges, from his Hyundai cab, assures that, as a member of the selective
   transportation service, he is very happy with this project, "Because in the past, it was
   impossible to use this road, and we could not even enter here, much less in a light
   vehicle such as mine....What's more, the bus, the population's only means of
   transportation, did not quite enter there because the drivers were afraid it would
   damage their units," he recalls.



                                            41

   Lázaro Gaitán, a laborer from Los Llanos No.1 settlement, remembers that this road
   was terrible. "Imagine that we had to go through those wild and nasty places so we did
   not get stuck while the buses, which appeared once in a blue moon, got stuck in the
   muddy mires before this project began," he said.

   Fátima Norinda, a student from Las Flores, says that the adoquine project is good,
   "because in the past it was horrible to go to classes, especially in the winter, when
   swamps covered everything with mud. Now everything is much easier and the buses
   come more often."


C. Growth of market competition: MECO Santa Fe Company

   Given the requirements for adoquine for the Third Road Rehabilitation and
   Maintenance Project, the MECO Santa Fe company kept its promise to provide
   supplies to this project. MECO Santa Fe had a plant capable of producing 1 million
   adoquine a month. In 2004, it opened a new plant with a production capacity of 2
   million. This means it will produce 36 million adoquine per year, enough to pave some
   300 kilometers of 6-meter-wide roads.

   Just like MECO, the list of investments has increased in the different companies
   dedicated to this sector. Engineer Leclair says that competition is positive, since this
   injects dynamism into the market, and he says that monopolies are "inconvenient from
   all points of view."




D. Dynamics of trade of agricultural products in Susucayan-El Jícaro

   Due to this roadwork, commercialization of agricultural products is more effective
   now. Today, a great number of traders buy crops from Susucayan farmers in their
   locations, which means that neither producers nor traders have to travel long, difficult
   journeys.

   Cesar Vásquez, a humble farmer from Susucayan, acknowledges that this adoquine
   paving project has brought great relief and an improvement in standards of living. "In
   the past, we had lots of difficulties in all senses with the road in such bad shape. In
   order to take our crops out it was very difficult and almost no vehicle passed through
   this area, no traders ever came here and we were forced to take our products all the way
   to El Jícaro," he recalls.


E. Impact in the micro-finance sector (Nueva Segovia)

   The lack of growth in the micro-finance sector in the productive municipalities of the



                                            42

country is well known. In the past they were "depressed" due to the lack of an
appropriate road network.

Hugo Fiallos, in charge of the project Multiple Services Cooperative of El Jícaro at the
Municipality in Nueva Segovia, admits there is a real impact with the creation of paved
road sectors in the municipality, since the financial records of the cooperative reflect a
slight growth in the account statements. The official affirms that he has observed, since
the execution of the paving project, that the amounts and number of loans have
increased by 30 percent to 40 percent, and that the type of loans requested by the
farmers are not only for crops but also for the purchase of vehicles.




                                         43

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Concept Note,
http://iris3.worldbank.org/iw/doc_view/viewer.jsp?DocID=000021716_00083110345600&IWINS
TANCE=IW3P2.

2. Project Appraisal Document,
http://iris3.worldbank.org/iw/doc_view/viewer.jsp?DocID=000023029_01013011562000&IWINS
TANCE=IW3P2.




                                         44

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 31207

                                    87°                                                       86°                                                    85°                                                          84°                                                83°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NICARAGUA
15°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       THIRD ROAD MAINTENANCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (RíoSegovia)                                     15°



                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Río Coco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Wani                        AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Waspam         Bilwaskarma                      Lagoon


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Cayos                              PROJECT ROADS
                                                                                                                                                     Raiti                                                                                                               Miskitos
                                                            H O N D U R A S                                                                                                                               Río                                                            Islands
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Wawa                                                                                           PAN AMERICAN HIGHWAY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MAIN PAVED ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Tuara
                                                                                                                                                                                 REGÍON AUTONOMISTA                                                                                                          ALL-WEATHER ROADS (GRAVEL)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Pahara
                                                                                                                                    Bocay                                               ATLÁNTICO NORTE                                                                                                      DRY WEATHER ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lagoon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PRINCIPAL PORTS

14°                                                                                         Teotecacinte                         Río                                                                                                                     Tuapí
                                                                                                                                                                                 Bonanza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PUERTO CABEZAS                                      14°                         OTHER PORTS

                                                                                                                        JINOTEGA                         La Constancia                                                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
                                                                                         Jalapa                                                                                                La Rosita
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Karata Lagoon                                          SECONDARY AIRPORTS
                                                               Las Manos     NUEVA                                                                                           El Salto              Río
                                                                                            Murra                                                                                                                                                                                                            INLAND WATERWAYS
                                                        Santa
                                                        Maria              SEGOVIA                                                                     Siuna
                                                                                      Susucayam                                                                                                                                                                                                              RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Bambana
                                                                     OCTOCAL                                                                                     Río                                                                             Wounta                                                      SELECTED TOWNS
                                                        Totogalpa                             Quilali                                                                                                                                             Lagoon

                                                 SOMOTO             MADRIZ           San Juan                                                                                                                  Limbaica                                                                                      DEPARTMENT CAPITALS

                                  To San                               Palacaguinade   Rio Coco     La Vigía                                                        Prinzapolca                                                                                                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                 Salvador                  Pueblo
                                                            Nuevo        Condego                                                                                                                                                            Puerto Isabel                                                    DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
                                San Pedro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
    Gulf of                                                 ESTELÍ                                                                                                                                              Makantaka

    Fonseca               To San
                         Salvador                           Limay
                                                                ESTELÍ                                                           Río  Tuma                           Río                                                                             C a r i b b e a n
                            Guasaule                                              JINOTEGA                    El Tuma                                                      Grande   de
                                            Somotillo                                                                                                                                    Matagalpa
13°         Potosi                                                                                                   MATAGALPA                                                                                                                                  S e a
                                                                                                                                                                          San Pedro                                                                                              13°
                                                 Rio Grande
                  CHINANDEGA                                                        MATAGALPA                                                                             del Norte

                          V. 15 Julio (Pte.                                                                                               Rio Blanco                                             Río    Kurinwás
                   Puerto                                        El Sauce                                              Matiguas
                              Estero Real)                                                Sébaco
                  Morazán                                    LEÓN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ALTITUDES IN METERS:

                                                      Mina El                                                        Muy Muy                                                                                                                                                                                   2000
                                                      Limón                    Ciudad                                                                                             REGÍON AUTONOMISTA
                                                                                  Darío                    Esquipulas                                                                                                                                                                                          500
            CHINANDEGA                        Malpaisillo
                                   Chichigalpa                                                               S. José de                                                                      ATLÁNTICO SUR
                                                                                                             Los Remates                                               Nauawás                                                                                                                                 200
                                                                                                  Santa Lucía                                                                       Salto Grande                                                                                                               0
                   Corinto                      Telica
                                              LÉON                                                                                BOACO
                                                           Monotombo                                               BOACO                                                            Río
                                                                                                              Camoapa
                         Poneloya                                     L.ake                  San Jacunti                                                                                Siquia                                                       Perlas
                                                                    Managua                                             Comalapa        CHONTALES                                                                                                    Lagoon
                            Salinas Grandes           Izapa                                 San Benito                                            Santo Domingo

                                 Puerto Sandino                                                                                             La Libertad                                                  EL Rama                                                                             0        20            40            60            80           100

                                                           MANAGUA                                          San Lorenzo       JUIGALPA                        Río        Mico
                                           El Tránsito                                   Managua              Bridge                                                                                     Rio
                                                                                         Airport                                    Sto. Tomas   Muhan
                                                                                                                                                         Villa San                                           Escondido                                                                                              KILOMETERS

12°                                                                                       MASAYA                                                         Francisco
                                                         MANAGUA                                                                            Lovago                                                                BLUEFIELDS         El Bluff                                    12°
                                                                                                                          Pto.                                           La Gateada
                                                                                   MASAYA                                                    Acoyapa
                                                                                                   GRANADA                Díaz                                                                                                                                                                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                      Diriamba                                                                                                                                                     Bluefields
                                                                                                                                     San Ubaldo
                                                                                              GRANADA                                                                                                                                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Bay                                                      shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                      JINOTEPE
                                                      Masachapa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                             Nandaime                                                                                                                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                      CARAZO                                                                                                                  Nueva Guinea
                                                             La Boquito
                                                                                                                                                  Morrito
                                                                                                                       Altagracia                                                                       Rio PuntaGorda
                  PACIFIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       90°                   86°                   82°                  78°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      18°                                                                             18°
                                                                          El Astillero                          Moyagalpa           Lake                                                                                        Punta Gorda

                                                                                        Nancimí                                                                                                                                                                                                       BELIZE
                  OCEAN                                                                                   RIVAS                                                                                                                                                                      MEXICO
                                                                                                                                                              San Miguelito
                                                                                                RIVAS                        Nicaragua                                                                                                                                                                                                         ATLANTIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Punta                                                      GUATEMALA         HONDURAS                               OCEAN
                                                                                      San Juan del Sur              Peñas Blancas                                       Morillo                                               Gorda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Bay                                                    14°                                                                            14°

                                                                                                                                                                         SAN CARLOS                                                                                                                 EL
                                                                                                                                                                                             RÍO SAN                                                                                                                NICARAGUA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SALVADOR

11°                                                                                                                  To San                                                                   JUAN                                                                               11°
                                                                                                                      Jose                                                                                                         San Juan del Norte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10°    PACIFIC                         COSTA RICA               PANAMA         10°

                                                                                                                                          C O S TA R I C A                                               Río
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       San  Juan                                                              OCEAN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COLOMBIA
                                87°                                                         86°                                                   85°                                                            84°                                                 83°                        90°                   86°                   82°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JANUARY 2001

