Report No. PID10534
Project Name                     Costa Rica-Second Health Sector Strengthening and
Modernization Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Sector                           Reform and Financing; HT Targeted Health
Project ID                       CRPE73892
Borrower                         Republic of Costa Rica
Implementing Agency              Caja Costarricense de Seguro Social (CCSS)
Avenida Segunda, San Jose, Costa Rica
Contact person: Dr. Juan Carlos Sanchez
Tel: 506 233 5463
Fax: 506 258 4075
Environment Category             C
Date and PID prepared            June 13, 2001
Start of Appraisal Date          May 21, 2001
Board Approval date              July 12, 2001
1. COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
Costa Rica faces a challenge in the health sector that is unique
in the region: to maintain very good health conditions and high levels
of access, while at the same time correcting underlying causes of
inefficiencies and inequities in health service delivery so an even
higher level of performance can be achieved and sustained in the
future.
Over the last 10 years, Costa Rica's health indicators have continued
to improve. Infant mortality is an estimated 10.3 per 1,000 live
births, life expectancy has reached 77.6 years, and social insurance
covers 85 percent of the population. These health conditions are the
best in the Latin America Region, and in line with those of OECD
countries.
Health system reforms initiated a decade ago have borne fruit. In the
early 1990s, the responsibility for primary provision was transferred
from the Ministry of Health to the CCSS, and a population-based model
of care was extended to relatively underserved rural populations. The
reform process brought institutional and health care delivery changes
with the creation of health areas; reorganization of the primary health
care model (introduction of the Equipos Basicos de Atenci6n Integral en
Salud (or EBAIS); the approval of a law to increase autonomy of CCSS
providers (Ley 7852, Ley de Desconcentraci6n); and introduction of new
management arrangements.
To date, significant improvements have occurred. For example,
management contracts for health areas and major hospitals have been
implemented successfully. Management contracts have generated
innovation in hospital management; budgets have started to be proposed
on the basis of health outcomes. The opinion of the medical community
regarding management and resource use is being transformed. Monitoring
of processes and evaluation of results has become fundamental to health
care delivery.



Despite these achievements, there are strong signals that further
improvements in health service delivery are needed. For example,
quality and health outcomes are uneven. Comparing the survival
probability of cancer patients in Costa Rica with counterparts in the
US highlights some of the deficiencies. A patient with stomach cancer
in Costa Rica is one-third as likely to recover as a similar patient in
the US, and a patient with a malignant tumor is five times more likely
to die in Costa Rica, ceterus paribus.
Quality deficits are also apparent in primary care. A recent
evaluation of management contracts shows that quality-adjusted coverage
rates for key programs are about half as high as direct coverage rates.
(The quality-adjusted rates are based on a comparison of practice
patterns followed versus generally accepted protocols for key CCSS
programs).
Even more importantly, reforms in finance, organization and management
require timely and strong follow-through to ensure that the good
performance of the health sector can be sustained in the future. The
present--and future--financial burden on the public sector is
significant. In 2000, Costa Rica allocated an estimated 9 percent of
GDP to investments in health care. At the same time, increasing
pressure on healthcare spending is being driven by changes in the
country's epidemiologic and demographic profile. However, prior to a
recent revision of the estimation of GDP in Costa Rica, the widely
accepted figure for the share of GDP spent on health in Costa Rica was
11 percent. Although the country does not aim to reduce Government
spending on health, there is consensus among Costa Ricans about the
need to allocate resources more equitably and efficiently as a way of
obtaining better healthcare indicators and limiting future escalation
in health spending.
At the same time, although universal coverage is guaranteed, there is
room for improvement in assuring that good quality services reach
disadvantaged populations, and that Government resources are targeted
well.
Recognizing the issues ahead, the Costa Rican Government, and the CCSS
in particular, are eager to consolidate existing reforms, and take on
new challenges. For example, the CCSS plans to budget allocations to
reflect performance directly, and seeks to use incentive packages for
health workers to motivate productivity and efficiency. The CCSS is
also aiming to introduce mechanisms to reduce waiting lists, and make
expenditure on pharmaceuticals more efficient.
Main sector issues can be grouped into three large categories:
institutional strengthening and regulation; health care service
delivery; and financing and resource allocation. They include:
Institutional Strengthening and Regulation
Institutional and managerial changes lag sectoral needs. Several
recent pieces of legislation have major implications for the health
sector, yet the existing institutional and managerial structures and
capacities are not yet prepared for implementation. For example:
- In 2001, the Presidencia Ejecutiva of the CCSS signed management
contracts with each "Gerencia" (management unit). This is the first
step toward promoting greater accountability in the CCSS
organizational structure, and considerable support will be required
for implementation, and to link results with pay and promotions.
- Under the recent Ley de Desconcentraci6n, in April 2000 14 health
providers, including hospitals and health areas became autonomous.
-2 -



As a result of this legislative action, the Purchasing Department at
the CCSS central level (Direcci6n de Compra) will play a stronger
role, and newly autonomous health institutions must develop stronger
management capacities very soon. For example, autonomous hospitals
and health areas will be purchasing many inputs and investments and
performing managerial functions for which they were not previously
responsible.
- The strengthened role of the CCSS purchasing department, combined
with the Government's interest in better serving urban populations
without large public sector infrastructure investments, places
continued emphasis on strengthening contracting mechanisms,
measurement of outcomes, and evaluation of quality, satisfaction and
efficiency. It is increasingly important to apply these tools to
external contracts developed through public/private partnerships.
Early attempts at such partnerships seem to be proving beneficial in
efficiency and quality terms. Additional work in this area implies
the need for greater capacity to evaluate and control purchases.
The recently approved Ley de Protecci6n del Trabajador introduces
the imperative to quickly transform business processes in the CCSS.
One direct implication is that CCSS information systems will have to
be reshaped to accommodate new requirements regarding the collection
of revenues from employers and employees. In addition, support will
be required to improve inspection and reduce evasion.
- The Ministry of Health has made important efforts to reorganize in
order to better meet the growing demands required for appropriate
stewardship of the sector. While many of these changes have been
started, continued support will be required to ensure full
implementation and to continue to allow the MH to adapt the
organizational and functional structure to the changing regulatory
structure in the sector. Particular emphasis is required to allow
the MH to use the reorganization as an opportunity to improve the
enforcement of recently developed programs in accreditation and
quality assurance.
Stronger regulation and cooperation is needed. Public and private sub-
sectors lack appropriate regulation in many of the key areas of health
care delivery. For example:
- Accreditation of providers and certification of professionals is
incompletely developed or non-existent, and quality standards cannot
be appropriately required and monitored. The MH recently has made
important advances in the development of accreditation standards;
however, the Ministry's ability to enforce sector regulation is
weak.
- Because private sector participation was not traditionally
considered an important policy option in the past, there is almost
no regulation of the private sector. This is a significant
constraint given the increasing importance of the private sector and
the potential for public-private partnership arrangements for health
service delivery. The lack of a regulatory framework reduces
private participation because the "rules of the game" are unclear
and open to change without formal processes. It also leaves
consumers unprotected in the market. CCSS authorities are conscious
of the need to design and implement private sector regulation to
prevent quality of care from deteriorating and to discourage risk
selection. There are opportunities for CCSS to use its purchasing
- 3 -



power to require minimum performance as it contracts more with
private providers.
- Bodies that seek to improve coordination among social sector actors
have been established, but have never been effective. Improvements
in intersectoral coordination among CCSS, MH, Ministerio de
Educaci6n Publica (MEP), and Instituto Mixto de Ayuda Social del
Estado (IMAS) would permit better targeting and greater
effectiveness of sector policies.
Medical education and continuing education require modernization and
investment. Advances in technology, pharmaceuticals and the development of
the primary care model require substantive changes in the medical curriculum
to ensure the highest standards of care for the Costa Rican population.
Moreover, the lack of continuing education continues to remain a problem, as
many physicians and medical professionals do not routinely upgrade their
skills and knowledge. These two shortcomings affect the quality and
effectiveness of health care services in the CCSS.
Health Care Service Delivery
The health care delivery model needs refinement. Despite the immense effort
to reorient health service provision away from costly inpatient care and
toward disease prevention and ambulatory care, specific strategies are
required to make this shift effective for particular conditions and
interventions. In 1999, fewer than 5 percent of all hospital discharges were
resolved in an ambulatory setting. With minor investments in training,
equipment and infrastructure (remodeling), the CCSS could increase ambulatory
interventions to nearly 20 percent of all discharges. Benefits would include
cost savings of more than US$12 million per year, improved quality and
greater patient satisfaction. In addition, new, cost-effective service
delivery strategies--such as networks for home care and hospice care--are
required to address the challenge of caring for a growing elderly population.
The pharmaceutical supply chain management is inefficient, and out of step
with reforms. Increasing drug demands, decentralization trends, and changes
in the international pharmaceutical market are putting stress on the existing
pharmaceutical supply system, which is little changed from when it was first
developed. Organizational reforms are also needed to meet needs in a timely,
reliable and cost-effective manner. Efforts will be required to maintain the
economies of scale associated with centralized purchasing, while at the same
time obtaining the benefits of a close link between purchasing decisions and
demand. Given that pharmaceuticals represent 12 percent of CCSS health
expenditures (nearly 1 percent of GDP), and inefficiencies in the present
system are apparent, an alternative procurement system could yield large
savings and efficiency gains.
Investment in hospital infrastructure and equipment has lagged demand, and
inhibits efficiency and quality. Investment in hospital infrastructure and
equipment has lagged behind increases in demand and development of new
technologies. The CCSS has not built a new hospital in the past 30 years,
and during the 1990s investment was reduced to less than 3 percent of total
expenditure. While investment in the hospital sector has increased over the
past several years, investments required to modernize the hospital sector are
backlogged.
-4-



Information systems for providers remain weak. Implementation of an
integrated management system for health care providers, hospitals and health
areas is a continuing obstacle to improved efficiency. In the past several
years, numerous information systems have been developed at all levels of the
system, but without a clear conceptual framework and unified standards. The
lack of a clear framework and standard has prevented the providers from
combining the best components of each system to build an integrated system.
Inadequacies in hospital billing systems, for example, prevent the CCSS from
identifying and billing the national insurance institute for traffic
accident-related expenses and work-related injuries.
Increased attention to prevention and promotion is warranted. The changing
epidemiologic and demographic profile implies long-term changes in the types
of health services to be required by the population. This would include
increased attention to prevention and promotion activities, particularly for
non-communicable diseases (cardiovascular disease, cancers, accidents, mental
illness, among others).
Financing and Resource Allocation
Allocation of resources is weakly linked to health needs, performance and
outcomes. The introduction of a contractual logic based on annual
performance agreements has not been fully supported by the types of changes
in the resource allocation model that would ensure greater equity and better
targeting of resources. In the first phase of financial reforms, subjective
mechanisms to increase allocation to underserved areas were introduced. The
next step will be to extend the preliminary design to a formula-based plan
for resource allocation, taking into consideration population size, adjusted
for risk and poverty. Updating and refining of the Sistema de Identificaci6n
de la Poblaci6n Objetiva (SIPO) developed by IMAS, offers an opportunity to
improve targeting of public subsidies; implementation of the system will
require the formulation and introduction of regulations, as well as
continuing technical support and the CCSS Board approval.
At the same time, the mechanisms for reimbursement of hospital providers have
not fully made the difficult transition from a historical budget to a
performance-based system, where case-mix adjusted-production and -quality
outcomes will determine annual hospital revenues. The first phase of reform
provided the tools to make the transition in the form of a comprehensive and
nationwide system of Diagnostic Related Groups (DRGs), whereby the
performance of each hospital is known on a monthly basis. The DRG system has
not yet been used as a reimbursement mechanism.
2. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
The Government of Costa Rica sees the health sector as an essential
determinant of the country's economic and social development, giving it a
priority that is manifested in sustained high levels of spending and active
policy attention at the highest levels. Building on successful work
partially financed by the ongoing Bank-financed Health Reform Project, the
Government has identified specific opportunities for action in each of the
key areas of institutional strengthening and regulation, health care service
provision, and financing and resource allocation.
With respect to the main institutions, the Government is supporting efforts
to reorganize and decentralize functions of the CCSS; strengthen capacity of
newly autonomous entities in the health sector; and complete the
- 5 -



transformation of the MH into an effective regulator. The Government seeks
to develop high levels of regulatory capacity and to implement the most
important regulations during the next five years.
In health care provision, the Government is giving primary emphasis to
encouraging the shift away from over-dependence on inpatient services. In
addition, it is committed to introducing decentralized purchasing and
distribution of pharmaceuticals, based on price and quality bidding processes
originating in the health care facilities themselves.
In financing, the Government is committed to consolidating CCSS revenue
collection for all areas of the country through improvement and extension of
the Sistema Centralizado de Recaudaci6n (SICERE) and developing effective
supervision to reduce evasion and improve efficiency in the collection
process.
In resource allocation, the Government considers use of DRGs for
reimbursement to be one of the important future challenges. In addition,
better targeting of resources toward underserved populations is at the top of
the Government's agenda.
3. OBJECTIVES
This project aims to improve health system performance and financial
sustainability by supporting the ongoing policy changes in the health sector
in Costa Rica. Most of these changes are part of second-phase reforms in the
Costa Rican Social Security Institute (Caja Costarricense de Seguro Social,
or CCSS). For the short- to medium-term, these policy changes will: (a)
align the organizational and functional structure of the CCSS with recent
changes separating financing, purchasing and provision of health services at
all levels; (b) promote improvements in quality and fulfillment of consumer
rights, as well as the efficiency and effectiveness of the Ministry of Health
(MH) as a regulatory agency, by strengthening the institutional and
regulatory framework; (c) improve the quality and efficiency of the CCSS
health delivery system by supporting decentralization of decision-making,
consolidation of the primary care delivery network based on a population-
based system, and introduction of performance-based incentives for providers;
(d) reduce inefficiencies in the pharmaceutical sub-sector and promote
rational drug use by introducing changes in the planning, purchasing and
distribution of pharmaceuticals and supplies; and (e) develop financial
mechanisms that will improve the equitable distribution of resources, improve
efficiency in the provider payment mechanisms and strengthen the CCSS's
capacity to collect payroll contributions.
4. RATIONALE FOR BANK'S INVOLVEMENT
Continued World Bank support for the health sector in Costa Rica would
ensure:
- Continuity on the health reform effort that the Bank has been
supporting technically and financially through the ongoing Health
Reform Project.
- Maintenance of the dialogue with the Government on the health policy
agenda, while technically supporting the implementation of the program
through changing political environments.
- 6-



- Provision of assistance to expand knowledge of international
experiences in similar topics, emphasizing and facilitating the
dissemination of the Costa Rican experience to other countries.
5. DESCRIPTION
To meet stated development objectives, the proposed project consists of
two components:
I. Policy Design and Implementation (estimated US$ 20.75 million).
This component would provide financing to develop the strategies
and instruments required to achieve the objectives set forth in
the Policy Activity Schedule (PAS). The component will be
executed through two main mechanisms. The first would support
the PAS objectives by financing local and foreign consultant
services, information systems, development of supply chain
solutions, including e-procurement, equipment for EBAIS, training
in health policy, clinical practice and management and study
tours to incorporate international "best practice" into the Costa
Rican health sector.
The second mechanism for the component's execution would be through the
allocation of an estimated $9 million to decentralized subprojects with
the hospitals and health areas. Under this mechanism, health care
providers that have complied with the CCSS criteria for autonomy would
assume direct responsibility over the procurement process for
equipment, rehabilitation of infrastructure related to ambulatory
solutions, information systems, consultant services and other
innovative projects approved by the PCU. The decentralized nature of
the component would support the CCSS' overall policy to devolve
responsibility to health care providers, allow greater decision making
for administrators and speed-up the procurement process.
II.     Monitoring & Evaluation and Project Management (estimate US$2.75
million). This component would support the development of a monitoring
and evaluation system to provide for a comprehensive evaluation of the
project's results and routine monitoring. This component also includes
resources to establish and sustain information, education and
communication campaigns related to the modernization process.
Resources would also be provided to support the day-to-day operations
of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) that will assist the CCSS and
other agencies involved in the reform process with the project's
implementation. This will involve financing for local and
international consultants, computers and office equipment, and the
recurrent expenditures associated with management of the PCU.
The following table of project components summarizes the main
components, areas where investments will be targeted, indicative costs,
percent of total financing and distribution of external and local
financing.
NOTE: This document contains tables that cannot be converted into text files.
However, if you have MS Word or Word Viewer on your computer, you should be
able to download the complete original version by going to:
-7 -



http://www.worldbank.org/pics/pid/cr73892.doc.
6. IMPLEMENTATION
The CCSS will be responsible for project implementation over a five-year
period represented by the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). As with the
ongoing project, the PCU will continue to play an important role of
coordinator, facilitator and advisor to line departments in the CCSS and MH
responsible for the action plan and implementation of the project's main
activities. Oversight of the project's progress with the indicators in the
Policy Activity Schedule (PAS) would be the responsibility of a technical
advisory committee under the leadership of the Gerencia de Modernizaci6n of
the CCSS.
The operation of the project would be supported by the PCU under a functional
organization structure similar to the one in the ongoing project which has
proven successful for that project's implementation.     The composition of
technical and administrative-financial coordinating areas in the PCU is
proposed to ensure the integration and coherent implementation of project
activities in CCSS and MH, avoiding the creation of parallel structures
within CCSS and MH. The PCU's principal functions include technical
coordination, communication, procurement and financial administration and
technical assistance functions. It will administer procurement and financial
management, ensuring that all activities are responsive to Bank norms and
procedures in each area of implementation
7. SUSTAINABILITY
Based on current projections for health expenditures, the implementation of
the project will cost less than 0.1 percent of total CCSS expenditure on
health care services in Costa Rica, and less than 0.07 percent of total
expenditures, after the ninth year of the project, which is the starting
point for the analysis of sustainability. Recurrent costs attributable to
implementation of the project represent additional costs that are
insignificant in view of the CCSS expenditures and annual spending increases.
These figures indicate that the project is highly sustainable from a
financial standpoint. The analysis also does not consider the potential
additional revenues that CCSS is likely to raise from increasing the quality
of service, improving efficiency in the Centralized Collection System
billing system and reducing evasion. The ongoing Health Sector Reform
Project also shows that CCSS has done an excellent job of assimilating
recurrent costs from the project into the operating budget.
The main factors critical for sustainability of the benefits of the proposed
project are: (a) the Government's commitment and institutional stability to
engage in a continuing process of reform, evaluation and reorientation, when
needed particularly during the forthcoming electoral period; (b) sustaining
the change effort to avoid slowing the pace of reform implementation; (c) the
ability of the CCSS to absorb net increases in recurrent costs associated
with the project (primarily for extension of the EBAIS) into its operating
budget.
From an institutional perspective, the risks to sustainability could be
substantial if the reform course and orientation are modified by significant
political changes.    However,  the reforms being supported under the proposed
- 8 -



project represent a logical next step in a decade-long trajectory, and many
of the changes to be implemented are accepted by a majority of the key
interest groups; the CCSS has proven to manage the process of change quite
well and during the first phase of the reforms the bank's support was
beneficial to assist the CCSS in managing those risks. The ability of the
CCSS to undertake evaluation studies is high and the dialogue with other
stake holders and institutions has proven fruitful. Given these particular
circumstances, the risks to sustainability are considered modest.       There is
no indication that the political will or the financial position will
deteriorate in the future to reduce sustainability.
8.      CONTACT POINT:
Task Manager:
MarUa Luisa Escobar
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Tel. 202 458 8313 - Fax: 202 522 1202
8. For Information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The WorldBank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Tel. 202 458 5454
Fax: 202 522 1500
9



