Report No. 23578
Report No: I073892 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/24/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: COSTA RICA      Project ID: P073892
Project: Health Sector Strengthening and Modernization II Project         Task
Team Leader: Maria-Luisa Escobar
Authorized to Appraise Date: May 15, 2001         IBRD Amount ($m): 17.00
Bank Approval: July 12, 2001     IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSHH     Sector: HR - Reform and Financing; HT - Targeted Health
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
This project aims to improve health system performance and financial
sustainability by supporting the ongoing policy changes in the health
sector in Costa Rica. Most of these changes are part of second-phase
reforms in the Costa Rican Social Security Institute (Caja Costarricense
de Seguro Social, or CCSS). For the short- to medium-term, these policy
changes will: (a) align the organizational and functional structure of
the CCSS with recent changes separating financing, purchasing and
provision of health services at all levels; (b) promote improvements in
quality and fulfillment of consumer rights, as well as the efficiency and
effectiveness of the Ministry of Health (MH) as a regulatory agency, by
strengthening the institutional and regulatory framework; (c) improve the
quality and efficiency of the CCSS health delivery system by supporting
decentralization of decision-making, consolidation of the primary care
delivery network based on a population-based system, and introduction of
performance-based incentives for providers; (d) reduce inefficiencies in
the pharmaceutical sub-sector and promote rational drug use by introducing
changes in the planning, purchasing and distribution of pharmaceuticals
and supplies; and (e) develop financial mechanisms that will improve the
equitable distribution of resources, improve efficiency in the provider
payment mechanisms and strengthen the CCSS's capacity to collect payroll
contributions.
I.A.3. Project Description:
To meet stated development objectives, the proposed project consists of
two components:
I. Policy Design and Implementation (estimated US$ 20.75 million). This
component would provide    financing to develop the strategies and
instruments required to achieve the objectives set forth in the Policy
Activity Schedule (PAS) (Annex 2A). The component will be executed
through two main mechanisms.     The first would support the PAS objectives
by financing local and foreign consultant services, information     systems,
development of supply chain solutions, including e-procurement, equipment
for EBAIS, training in health policy, clinical practice and management
and study tours to incorporate international "best practice"     into the
Costa Rican health sector.
The second mechanism for the component's execution would be through the
allocation of an estimated $9 million to decentralized subprojects with
the hospitals and health areas. Under this mechanism, health care



providers that have complied with the CCSS criteria for autonomy would
assume direct responsibility over the procurement process for equipment,
rehabilitation of infrastructure related to ambulatory solutions,
information systems, consultant services and other innovative projects
approved by the Project Coordinating Unit. The decentralized nature of
the component would support the CCSS' overall policy to devolve
responsibility to health care providers, allow greater decision making for
administrators and speed-up the procurement process. The component would
be executed under the close supervision of the Bank to ensure the quality
of the technical assistance contracts executed.
II. Monitoring & Evaluation and Project Management (estimate US$2.75
million). This component would support the development of a monitoring
and evaluation system to provide for a comprehensive evaluation of the
project's results and routine monitoring. This component also includes
resources to establish and sustain information, education and
communication campaigns related to the modernization process.    Resources
would also be provided to support the day-to-day operations of the Project
Coordinating Unit that will assist the CCSS and other agencies involved in
the reform process with the project's implementation. This will involve
financing for local and international consultants, computers and office
equipment, and the recurrent expenditures associated with management of
the PCU.
The following table of project components summarizes the main components,
areas where investments will be targeted, indicative costs, percent of
total financing and distribution of external and local financing.
Additional details are contained in Annex 2.
Components:
I. Policy Design and Implementation
II. Monitoring & Evaluation and Project Management
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
- 2 -



Comments: C (Revised).
Based on the PAHO statement and the clarifications advanced by the project
team on the existing legal framwork and institutional capacities,
including the effectiveness of implementation of existing regulations,
LCSES provided No Objection to recategorizing this project from B to C.
(cleared by A. Zarzar on June 7, 2001).
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
-3-



I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Maria-Luisa Escobar      06-01-2001
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Alonso Zarzar    06-7-2001
Sector Manager/Director:         Xavier Coll      06-01-2001
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 4 -



