Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 22179
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$17.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
FORA
HEALTH SECTOR STRENGTHENING AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
June 22, 2001
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 5, 2001)
Currency Unit  Costa Rican Colones
US$1 = CR326.6
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBR            Cost Benefit Ratio
CENEBAST    Centhal de Abastecimientos de Farnacduticos en Chile
CEO            Chief Executive Officer
CGO            General Comptroller's Office
CQ             Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
DRG            Diagnostic Related Groups
EBAIS          Basic Health Care Teams (Equipos Bdsicos de Atenci6n de Salud)
FSL            Fixed-spread Loan
GTZ            Agencia de Cooperacion Alemana
HNP            Health, Nutrition and Population
IDB            International Development Bank
IMAS           State Social Welfare Institute (Instituto Mixto de Ayuda Social del Estado)
IRR            Internal Rate of Return
ISA            International Standards on Auditing
LCS            Least-Cost Selection System
M&E            Monitoriiig and Evaluation
MEP            Ministry of Public Education (Ministerio de Educaci6n Piublica)
MH             Ministry of Health
MOF            Ministry of Finance
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NBF            Not Bank-financed
NPV            Net Present Value
OECD           Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PACs           Procurement and Contracting Plans
PAHO           Pan American Health Organization
PASP           National Health Plan
PAS            Policy Activity Schedule
PASP           Health Care Plan (Plan de Atencion a las Personas)
PCU            Project Coordinating Unit
PESS           Health Services Planning Strategy (PESS) (Plan de Atenci6n a las Personas)
PHC            Primary Health Care
PMR            Project Management Reports
RFB            Standard Request for Proposals
QBS            Quality-Based Selection
QCBS           Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
REPAMAR        Pan-American Network for Waste Management
SB             Standard Bidding
SBD            Standard Bidding Documents
SFB            Selection under a Fixed Budget
SICERE         Centralized Collection System (Sistema Centralizado de Recaudaci6n)
SIL            Sector Investment Loan
SOE            Statement of Expenditures
SIPO           Population Identification Systems (Sistema de ldentificaci6n de la Poblaci6n Objetiva)
SUGESS         Superintendency of Health
F          Vice President: David De Ferranti
I      Country Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director: Xavier Coll
lTeam Leader: Maria Luisa Escobar
L



Costa Rica
Costa Rica Health Sector Strengthening and Modernization
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective .............................2
1. Project development objective ......................                       .         .            .          .          2
2. Key performance indicators .............................2
B. Strategic Context ...........................3
1. Sector-related Countiy Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .........3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ............................................................                  4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .................................8
C. Project Description Summary .......................                                                                                10
1. Project components .......................                                                                             10
2. Key policy and institutional reforns supported by the project                                         .1
3. Benefits and target population ................................................................I 1l
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ............................................................ 12
D. Project Rationale ................................................................                                                 13
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................. 13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ........1  4
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ...................................................... 14
4. Indications of borrower commitmnent and ownership ................................................... 15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ................................................................ 15
E. Summary Project Analysis ................................................................                                          16
1. Economic ................................................................ 16
2. Financial ................................................................ 16
3. Technical ................................................................                                             17
4. Institutional ................................... 17
5. Environmental assessment ......................                                                                         19
6. Social ......................                                                                                           20
7. Safeguard Policies .,... 22
F. Sustainability and Risks ...................                                                                                       22
1. Sustainability ......................                                                                                  22
2. Critical Risks ......................                                                                                   23
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ......................                                                                  24



G. Main Loan Conditions ........................                                24
1. Effectiveness Conditions ........................                     24
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                        25
1. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                       25
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 2A:    Policy Activity Schedule
Annex 2B:    Project Actions Matrix
Annex 2C:    Overview of Health Sector and Health Sector Reform in Costa Rica
Annex 2D:    Social Assessment
Annex 2E:    Environmental Assessment
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement, Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table D.     Disbursement Schedule of Loan Proceeds. Fiscal Years
Table E.     Disbursement Schedule of Loan Proceeds. Calendar Years
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Map



Costa Rica
Health Sector Strengthening and Modernization II
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Central-America
Date: : June 22, 2001                      Team Leader: Maria Luisa Escobar
Country Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo    Sector Director: Xavier Coll
Project ID: : P073892                      Sector: HR - Reform and Financing, HT - Targeted Health
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan  Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention:        [] Yes [X] No
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan      [ ] Credit     [] Grant       [  Guarantee      [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $17.0 m
Proposed terms:      Fixed-Spread          Multicurrency           Single currency (X)
Loan (FSL) (X)
Standard Variable      Fixed                LIBOR-
based
Grace period (years):          7 years
Years to maturity:            15 years
Commitment fee:           0.85% first 4 years, 0.75% afterwards
Service charge:              %
Front-end fee on Bank loan:    1 %
finanflng plin:               To be defined
Source                            Local "          F'-      ' ' taout
Government                                               4.0               2.5              6.5
IBRD                                                     7.4              9.6              17.0
Total:                                                  11.4              12.1             23.5
Borrower: Republic of Costa Rica
Guarantor:
Responsible agency: CAJA COSTARRICENSE DE SEGURO SOCIAL
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUSSM):
FY         2002         2003         2004        2005        -2W          2007
Annual       1.14         3.70         5.00         3.54        1.82         1.80
Cumulative       1.14         4.84        9.84        13.38        15.20       17.00
Project implementation period: 5 years December 1, 2001 -June 30, 2006
Expected effectiveness date: 12/01/2001             Expected closing date: 12/31/2006
Implementing agency: CCSS
Contact person: : Dr. Juan Carlos Sanchez - CCSS
Address: Avenida Segunda, San Jos6, Costa Rica - Tel. 506 233 5463



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex l)
This project aims to improve health system performance and financial sustainability by supporting the
ongoing policy changes in the health sector in Costa Rica. Most of these changes are part of second-
phase reforms in the Costa Rican Social Security Institute (Caja Costarricense de Seguro Social, or
CCSS). For the short- to medium-term, these policy changes will: (a) align the organizational and
functional structure of the CCSS with recent changes separating financing, purchasing and provision of
health services at all levels; (b) promote improvements in quality and fulfillment of consumer rights, as
well as the efficiency and effectiveness of the Ministry of Health (MH) as a regulatory agency, by
strengthening the institutional and regulatory framework; (c) improve the quality and efficiency of the
CCSS health delivery system by supporting decentralization of decision-making, consolidation of the
primary care delivery network based on a population-based system, and introduction of performance-
based incentives for providers; (d) reduce inefficiencies in the pharmaceutical sub-sector and promote
rational drug use by introducing changes in the planning, purchasing and distribution of pharmaceuticals
and supplies; and (e) develop financial mechanisms that will improve the equitable distribution of
resources, improve efficiency in the provider payment mechanisms and strengthen the CCSS's capacity to
collect payroll contributions.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress toward project objectives will be measured through a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system,
which will build on established information systems. The M&E system will be refined through a
collaborative effort among national academic institutions, the MH, the CCSS and the Bank. The
evaluation system will collect and compare data before (baseline), during and after project
implementation. For some outcome measures, comparisons will also be made between geographic areas
that were supported by project interventions and those that were not, adjusting for confounding factors.
The evaluation system will provide the basis for bi-annual evaluations of compliance with the Policy
Activity Schedule (PAS) (See Annex 2. A).
The M&E system will pernit measurement of three types of indicators: (a) input indicators associated
with investments/expenditures; (b) process indicators associated with completion of key project activities;
and (c) outcome and/or impact indicators aimed at measuring the project's results in relation to objectives.
While many indicators will be measured by the M&E system, the project's key output/impact-related
performance indicators include the following:
Coverage of priority PHC programs, as measured by the difference between the absolute
coverage rates and quality-adjusted coverage rates. (The programs include: well baby care (0-
1 years), well child care (1-6 years), adolescent health, women's health, adult health, and
elderly health).
Percent of the population newly covered by the primary care model (EBAIS)
Percent of public and private providers accredited by MH
New organizational structure for the CCSS - based on management separation of financing,
purchasing and provision-approved and implemented
Design and implementation of systems to improve equity in the distribution of CCSS funds
New strategy for human resources management - including recruitment, staff redeployment
and training plans
Percent of CCSS hospitals that have a professional manager as CEO
Percent of hospitals operating under the rules and procedures of the Ley de Desconcentraci6n
and corresponding regulations
Percent of CCSS health care providers with performance contracts
2



Satisfaction of low-income patients with health service providers
Percent change in ambulatory and inpatient surgery rates
Percent of total pharmaceutical budget spent on rented, versus owned, warehouse space
Average process time between initial bid and warehouse delivery of pharmaceuticals
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R-93-57            Date of latest CAS:
CAS discussion: April 15, 1993
The objective and design of the proposed project is fully consistent with the themes of the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Costa Rica, as reflected in the last CAS, the expected
emphasis of the upcoming CAS, and the Bank's H7VP Sector Strategy.
The CAS recognized the central role of improving efficiency of social programs for the
development of Costa Rica, and the importance of ensuring that social progress benefits all of the
country's residents. Among other strategies, it suggested that the Government further develop
mechanisms to encourage systematically private sector participation in the provision of social
services.
The CAS identified health sector improvements as a critical-and leading-element in the overall
improvement of social programs and highlighted the importance of improving efficiency;
strengthening the referral system; channeling increasing resources to disadvantaged areas and
thereby improving equity; and integrating curative and preventive services. The Bank's $22
million loan for the Health Reform Project (Ln. 3654), approved in 1993 was designed as a
strategic instrument to support those improvements, and implementation has been very supportive
of its objectives.
A forthcoming CAS will likely continue to place strong emphasis on social sectors. It is expected
to acknowledge the significant progress made to date, as well as to outline the large unfinished
reform agenda. Based on the findings of a recent Social Expenditures Review, the forthcoming
CAS is expected to emphasize the need to improve resource allocation and equity, and develop
mechanisms to encourage private sector participation.
The proposed project, which builds and improves on the Health Reformn Project, is fully
consistent with the country strategy. The project proposes to deepen the reforms started in 1993,
giving special emphasis to improved resource allocation and equity-related outcomes through
finance, organizational and management improvements. In addition, breaking into a new area,
the project seeks to assist the Government with the establishment of "rules of the game" for
improved regulation of private sector delivery, and quality assurance programs to protect
consumers.
The proposed project is also fully consistent with the HNP Sector Strategy. It is designed with a
recognition of: (a) the Bank's comparative advantage in the areas of system strengthening; (b)
the importance of supporting reformns that separate the functions of finance, purchase and
provision of health services; and (c) the overall institutional mission to address the needs of poor
and underserved populations.
3



The proposed project is also consistent with the Bank's interest in strengthening its partnership
with clients. This loan was specifically requested by the Government of Costa Rica, which
acknowledges the value of the Health Sector Reform Loan-and the ongoing collaborative
technical exchanges and policy dialogue with the Bank-in establishing and consolidating first-
generation reforms. As the government takes on even more complex tasks in health sector
stewardship, it now seeks continued technical and financial support from the World Bank.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues. Costa Rica faces a challenge in the health sector that is unique in the
region: to maintain very good health conditions and high levels of access, while at the same time
correcting underlying causes of inefficiencies and inequities in health service delivery so an even
higher level of performance can be achieved and sustained in the future.
Over the last 10 years, Costa Rica's health indicators have continued to improve. Infant mortality
is estimated 10.3 per 1,000 live births, life expectancy has reached 77.6 years, and social
insurance covers 85 percent of the population. These health conditions are the best in the Latin
America Region, and in line with those of OECD countries.
Health system reforms initiated a decade ago have borne fruit. In the early 1990s, the
responsibility for primary provision was transferred from the MH to the CCSS, and a population-
based model of care was extended to relatively underserved rural populations. (See Annex 2C
for an overview of the Costa Rican health system and recent reforms). The reform process
brought institutional and health care delivery changes with the creation of health areas;
reorganization of the primary health care model (introduction of the Equipos Basicos de Atenci6n
Integral en Salud (or EBAIS)); the approval of a law to increase autonomy of CCSS providers
(Ley 7852, Ley de Desconcentraci6n); and introduction of new management arrangements.
To date, significant improvements have occurred. For example, management contracts for health
areas and major hospitals have been implemented successfully. Management contracts have
generated innovation in hospital management; budgets have started to be proposed on the basis of
health outcomes. The opinion of the medical community regarding management and resource use
is being transformed. Monitoring of processes and evaluation of results has become fundamental
to health care delivery.
Despite these achievements, there are strong signals that further improvements in health service
delivery are needed. For example, quality and health outcomes are uneven. Comparing the
survival probability of cancer patients in Costa Rica with counterparts in the US highlights some
of the deficiencies. A patient with stomach cancer in Costa Rica is one-third as likely to recover
as a similar patient in the US, and a patient with a malignant tumor is five times more likely to die
in Costa Rica, ceterus paribus.
Quality deficits are also apparent in primary care. A recent evaluation of management contracts
shows that quality-adjusted coverage rates for key programs are about half as high as direct
coverage rates. (The quality-adjusted rates are based on a comparison of practice patterns
followed versus generally accepted protocols for key CCSS programs).
Even more importantly, reforms in finance, organization and management require timely and
strong follow-through to ensure that the good performance of the health sector can be sustained in
the future. The present-and future-financial burden on the public sector is significant. In
2000, Costa Rica allocated an estimated 9 percent of GDP to investments in health care. At the
4



same time, increasing pressure on healthcare spending is being driven by changes in the country's
epidemiologic and demographic profile. However, prior to a recent revision of the estimation of
GDP in Costa Rica, the widely accepted figure for the share of GDP spent on health in Costa Rica
was 11 percent. Although the country does not aim to reduce government spending on health,
there is consensus among Costa Ricans about the need to allocate resources more equitably and
efficiently as a way of obtaining better healthcare indicators and limiting future escalation in
health spending.
At the same time, although universal coverage is guaranteed, there is room for improvement in
assuring that good quality services reach disadvantaged populations, and that government
resources are targeted well. As Table I in Annex 2C shows, there are important disparities in the
per capita allocation of financial resources per region and health area for primary health care.
While the national average is estimated at $48 in 2001, there are still three health regions that lag
behind: North Central, South Central and Brunca. Notoriously, in the Brunca region because of
the variation in the per capita allocation among its health areas, the average reaches only $27.
Meanwhile, there are three health regions, Chorotega, Central Pacific and Huetar, that allocate
per capita resources for primary care well above average.
Recognizing the issues ahead, the Costa Rican government, and the CCSS in particular, are eager
to consolidate existing reforms, and take on new challenges. For example, the CCSS plans to
improve its allocation of resources by improving the existing algorithm and introducing a formula
based system that takes into account population and health risk. The targeting system now used
(SIPO) is proposed to be improved in order to allocate public subsidies in more equitable way.
By the same token, the CCSS proposes to introduce a system in order to budget allocations to
reflect performance directly, and seeks to use incentive packages for health workers to motivate
productivity and efficiency. The CCSS is also aiming to introduce mechanisms to reduce waiting
lists, and make expenditure on pharmaceuticals more efficient.
Main sector issues can be grouped into three main categories. As described below, they include:
institutional strengthening and regulation; health care service delivery; and financing and
resource allocation.
Institutional Strengthening and Regulation
1.    Institutional and managerial changes lag sectoral needs. Several recent pieces of legislation
have major implications for the health sector, yet the existing institutional and managerial structures and
capacities are not yet prepared for implementation. For example:
*  In 2001, the Presidencia Ejecutiva of the CCSS signed management contracts with each
"Gerencia" (management unit). This is the first step toward promoting greater accountability
in the CCSS organizational structure, and considerable support will be required for
implementation, and to link results with pay and promotions.
*  Under the recent Ley de Desconcentraci6n, in April 2000 14 health providers, including
hospitals and health areas became autonomous. As a result of this legislative action, the
Purchasing Department at the CCSS central level (Direcci6n de Compra) will play a stronger
role, and newly autonomous health institutions must develop stronger management capacities
very soon. For example, autonomous hospitals and health areas will be purchasing many
inputs and investments and performing managerial functions for which they were not
previously responsible.
5



*  The strengthened role of the CCSS purchasing department, combined with the government's
interest in better serving urban populations without large public sector infrastructure
investments, places continued emphasis on strengthening contracting mechanisms,
measurement of outcomes, and evaluation of quality, satisfaction and efficiency. It is
increasingly important to apply these tools to external contracts developed through
public/private partnerships. Early attempts at such partnerships seem to be proving beneficial
in efficiency and quality terms. Additional work in this area implies the need for greater
capacity to evaluate and control purchases. The recently approved Ley de Protecci6n del
Trabajador introduces the imperative to transform quickly business processes in the CCSS.
One direct implication is that CCSS' information systems will have to be reshaped to
accommodate new requirements regarding the collection of revenues from employers and
employees. In addition, support will be required to improve inspection and reduce evasion.
*  The Ministry of Health has made important efforts to reorganize in order to meet better the
growing demands required for appropriate stewardship of the sector. While many of these
changes have been initiated, continued support will be required to ensure full implementation
and to continue to allow the MH to adapt the organizational and functional structure to the
changing regulatory structure in the sector. Particular emphasis is required to allow the MH
to use the reorganization as an opportunity to improve the enforcement of recently developed
programs in accreditation and quality assurance.
2.     Stronger regulation and cooperation is needed. Public and private sub-sectors lack appropriate
regulation in many of the key areas of health care delivery. For example:
*  Accreditation of providers and certification of professionals is incompletely developed or
non-existent, and quality standards cannot be appropriately required and monitored. The MH
recently has made important advances in the development of accreditation standards;
however, the Ministry's ability to enforce sector regulation is weak.
*  Because private sector participation was not traditionally considered an important policy
option in the past, there is almost no regulation of the private sector. This is a significant
constraint given the increasing importance of the private sector and the potential for public-
private partnership arrangements for health service delivery. The lack of a regulatory
framework reduces private participation because the "rules of the game" are unclear and open
to change without formal processes. It also leaves consumers unprotected in the market.
CCSS authorities are conscious of the need to design and implement private sector regulation
to prevent quality of care from deteriorating and to discourage risk selection. There are
opportunities for CCSS to use its purchasing power to require minimum performance as it
contracts more with private providers.
*  Bodies that seek to improve coordination among social sector actors have been established,
but have never been effective. Improvements in intersectoral coordination among CCSS,
MH, Ministerio de Educaci6n Publica (MEP), and Instituto Mixto de Ayuda Social del
Estado (IMAS) would permit better targeting and greater effectiveness of sector policies.
3.     Medical education and continuing education require modernization and investment.
Advances in technology, pharmaceuticals and the development of the primary care model require
substantive changes in the medical curriculum to ensure the highest standards of care for the Costa Rican
population. Moreover, the lack of continuing education continues to remain a problem, as many
physicians and medical professionals do not routinely upgrade their skills and knowledge. These two
shortcomings affect the quality and effectiveness of health care services in the CCSS.
6



Health Care Service Delivery
4.    The health care delivery model needs refinement. Despite the immense effort to reorient
health service provision away from costly inpatient care and toward disease prevention and ambulatory
care, specific strategies are required to shift from costly inpatient to more efficient outpatient care for
particular conditions and interventions. In 1999, fewer than 5 percent of all hospital discharges were
resolved in an ambulatory setting. With minor investments in training, equipment and infrastructure
(remodeling), the CCSS could increase ambulatory interventions to nearly 20 percent of all discharges.
Benefits would include cost savings of more than US$12 million per year, improved quality and greater
patient satisfaction. In addition, new, cost-effective service delivery strategies-such as networks for
home care and hospice care-are required to address the challenge of caring for a growing elderly
population.
5.    The pharmaceutical supply chain management is inefficient, and out of step with reforms.
Increasing drug demands, decentralization trends, and changes in the international pharmaceutical market
are putting stress on the existing pharmaceutical supply system, which is little changed from when it was
first developed. Organizational reforms are also needed to meet needs in a timely, reliable and cost-
effective manner. Efforts will be required to maintain the economies of scale associated with centralized
purchasing, while at the same time obtaining the benefits of a close link between purchasing decisions
and demand. Given that pharmaceuticals represent 12 percent of CCSS health expenditures (nearly I
percent of GDP), and inefficiencies in the present system are apparent, an alternative procurement system
could yield large savings and efficiency gains.
6.    Investment in hospital infrastructure and equipment has lagged demand, and inhibits
efficiency and quality. Investment in hospital infrastructure and equipment has lagged behind increases
in demand and development of new technologies. The CCSS has not built a new hospital in the past 30
years, and during the 1990s investment was reduced to less than 3 percent of total expenditure. While
investment in the hospital sector has increased over the past several years, investments required to
modernize the hospital sector are backlogged.
7.    Information systems for providers remain weak.  Implementation of an integrated
management system for health care providers, hospitals and health areas is a continuing obstacle to
improved efficiency. In the past several years, numerous information systems have been developed at all
levels of the system, but without a clear conceptual framework and unified standards. The lack of a clear
framework and standard has prevented the providers from combining the best components of each system
to build an integrated system. Inadequacies in hospital billing systems, for example, prevent the CCSS
from identifying and billing the national insurance institute for traffic accident-related expenses and
work-related injuries.
8.    Increased attention to prevention and promotion is warranted. The changing epidemiologic
and demographic profile implies long-term changes in the types of health services to be required by the
population. This would include increased attention to prevention and promotion activities, particularly
for non-communicable diseases (cardiovascular disease, cancers, accidents, mental illness, among others).
Financing and Resource Allocation
9.    Allocation of resources is weakly linked to health needs, performance and outcomes. The
introduction of a contractual logic based on annual performance agreements has not been fully supported
by the types of changes in the resource allocation model that would ensure greater equity and better
7



targeting of resources. In the first phase of financial reforms, subjective mechanisms to increase
allocation to underserved areas were introduced. The next step will be to extend the preliminary design to
a formula-based plan for resource allocation, taking into consideration population size, adjusted for risk
and poverty. Updating and refining of the Sistema de Identificaci6n de la Poblaci6n Objetiva (SIPO)
developed by IMAS, offers an opportunity to improve targeting of public subsidies; implementation of
the system will require the formulation and introduction of regulations, as well as continuing technical
support and the CCSS Board approval.
At the same time, the mechanisms for reimbursement of hospital providers have not fully made the
difficult transition from a historical budget to a performance-based system, where case-mix adjusted-
production and -quality outcomes will determine annual hospital revenues. The first phase of reform
provided the tools to make the transition in the form of a comprehensive and nationwide system of
Diagnostic Related Groups (DRGs), whereby the performance of each hospital is known on a monthly
basis. The DRG system has not yet been used as a reimbursement mechanism.
Government Strategy
The Government of Costa Rica sees the health sector as an essential determinant of the country's
economic and social development, giving it a priority that is manifested in sustained high levels of
spending and active policy attention at the highest levels. Building on successful work partially financed
by the World Bank's Health Reform Project, the Government has identified specific opportunities for
action in each of the key areas of institutional strengthening and regulation, health care service provision,
and financing and resource allocation.
With respect to the main institutions, the government is supporting efforts to reorganize and decentralize
functions of the CCSS; strengthen capacity of newly autonomous entities in the health sector; and
complete the transformation of the MH into an effective regulator. The government seeks to develop high
levels of regulatory capacity and to implement the most important regulations during the next five years.
In health care provision, the Government is giving primary emphasis to encouraging the shift away from
over-dependence on inpatient services.  In addition, it is committed to introducing decentralized
purchasing and distribution of pharmaceuticals, based on price and quality bidding processes originating
in the health care facilities themselves.
In financing, the Government is committed to consolidating CCSS revenue collection for all areas of the
country through improvement and extension of the Sistema Centralizado de Recaudacion (SICERE) and
developing effective supervision to reduce evasion and improve efficiency in the collection process
In resource allocation, the Government considers use of DRGs for reimbursement to be one of the
important future challenges. In addition, better targeting of resources toward underserved populations is
at the top of the government's agenda.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project aims to consolidate and deepen the health reform process started in 1993 by
providing financial and technical resources for a set of strategic initiatives. These initiatives address key
sector issues related to the three areas mentioned above: institutional strengthening and regulation, health
care service delivery, and financing and resource allocation. They have been identified by both Costa
Rican authorities and the Bank as catalytic in nature-areas that are high-priority for the Government, and
where targeted actions, supported by strong policy and technical work, will have large payoffs in
improved performance and sustainability.
8



Links between sector issues and the proposed project's focus are outlined below.
Institutional Strengthening and Regulation. The project would seek to support the Government's
objective of having in place institutions that are capable of fulfilling their roles in a decentralized system,
in which financing is separated from provision, and in which the Ministry of Health plays the role of
regulator. The project would seek to support restructuring of the CCSS (including enhancing of the
purchasing function and its capacity for planning and distributing pharmaceuticals); strengthening of the
regulatory capabilities of the MH, including improved regulations for quality assurance and better control
over the private provision of health care; and improving sector coordination.
Health Care Service Delivery. Efficiency, quality and client/patient focus of the model of care can be
improved through the mechanisms approved in the Ley de Desconcentraci6n and other initiatives
launched in recent years. At the same time, efficiency and quality gains can be obtained by reducing
dependence on inpatient services. To achieve these ends, the project would focus on supporting
management improvements in autonomous hospitals; developing with CCSS a set of strategies to increase
ambulatory care; and supporting consolidation of the EBAIS model, especially in lower income areas.
The project would also support activities aimed at reducing waiting times through the implementation of
improved information system, planning and incentives for improving productivity in CCSS hospitals and
health areas.
In addition, improvement of the pharmaceutical procurement and distribution system remains a major
challenge, and one that is of great interest to the Government. The project also would support the
modernization of planning, purchase and provision of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies at the
hospital level, according to new capacities implied by the Ley de Desconcentraci6n. Support for the
analysis and design of changes in the supply chain will initiate during the project preparation phase with
support from a PHRD Grant.
Financing and Resource Allocation. Sustainability of the reforms to date, and improvements in
efficiency and equity, will require renewed attention to both revenue generation and allocation. To
improve CCSS's collection system-as required under the recent Ley de Protecci6n del Trabajador-and
to prepare the CCSS to collect pension payments for the newly approved second and third pillar of the
capitalized pension schemes, the proposed project would assist with enhancement of the CCSS invoicing
system. The enhancement would make the system more efficient, and less vulnerable to evasion.
On the allocation side, improved targeting to low-income populations and introducing information about
case mix into the formula for reimbursement of hospitals stand out as two actions that are high priority,
and can be undertaken in the near future. For improved targeting of public subsidies, the project would
support the development of a refined SIPO instrument. For improved regional equity, the project would
support the development of a formula-based plan for resource allocation, in which population size, risk-
adjustment and poverty are taken into account. For hospital reimbursement, the project would support the
use of DRGs in the reimbursement mechanism, on a trial basis.
Recognizing the Bank's comparative advantage, as well as the need for selectivity and focus, the project
does not address several important issues affecting health sector performance. Among those, there are
investment needs in the CCSS provider network, information systems, medical education and
strenghtening health promotion and prevention directly. Additional information about design alternatives
along with the reasons for their exclusion can be found in Section Dl.
9



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown) To meet stated development objectives, the proposed project consists of two components:
I.    Policy Design and Implementation (estimated US$ 20.75 million). This component
would provide financing to develop the strategies and instruments required to achieve the
objectives set forth in the Policy Activity Schedule (PAS) (Annex 2A). The component
will be executed through two main mechanisms. The first would support the PAS
objectives by financing local and foreign consultant services, information systems,
development of supply chain solutions, including e-procurement, equipment for EBAIS,
training in health policy, clinical practice and management and study tours to incorporate
international "best practice" into the Costa Rican health sector.
The second mechanism for the component's execution would be through the allocation of an
estimated $9 million to decentralized subprojects with the hospitals and health areas. Under this
mechanism, health care providers that have complied with the CCSS criteria for autonomy would
assume direct responsibility over the procurement process for equipment, rehabilitation of
infrastructure related to ambulatory solutions, information systems, consultant services and other
innovative projects approved by the Project Coordinating Unit. The decentralized nature of the
component would support the CCSS' overall policy to devolve responsibility to health care
providers, allow greater decision making for administrators and speed-up the procurement
process. The component would be executed under the close supervision of the Bank to ensure the
quality of the technical assistance contracts executed.
H.    Monitoring & Evaluation and Project Management (estimate US$2.75 million). This
component would support the development of a monitoring and evaluation system to
provide for a comprehensive evaluation of the project's results and routine monitoring.
This component also includes resources to establish and sustain information, education
and communication campaigns related to the modernization process. Resources would
also be provided to support the day-to-day operations of the Project Coordinating Unit
that will assist the CCSS and other agencies involved in the reform process with the
project's implementation.  This will involve financing for local and international
consultants, computers and office equipment, and the recurrent expenditures associated
with management of the PCU.
The following table of project components summarizes the main components, areas where
investments will be targeted, indicative costs, percent of total financing and distribution of
external and local financing. Additional details are contained in Annex 2.
10



I. Policy Design and                     20.75    88.3       15.00     88.23
Implementation
Il. Monitoring & Evaluation               2.75    11.7        2.00     11.76
and Project Management
Total      23.5    100         17.0     100
Total Project Costs    23.5    100         17.0     100
Interest during construction
Front-end fee
Total Financing Required     23.5    100%        17.0     100%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would help to:
(i)    Support the implementation of organizational changes in the CCSS and MH related to the
separation of functions and the implementation of the decentralization policy;
(ii)   Promote further development of the purchasing function in the CCSS by strengthening
performance evaluation;
(iii)  Implement an incentive scheme linked to the evaluation of management contracts;
(iv)   Strengthen the functions of MH related to regulation, accreditation, setting national policy goals,
and consumer protection;
(v)    Strengthen regulations related to quality and quality assurance and environmental issues;
(vi)  Implement decentralization policy (Ley de Desconcentracion) that fosters managerial autonomy
in the management of resources and facilitates a shift to outputs-based financing;
(vii)  Strengthen delivery network to improve quality and efficiency of services through
implementation of policies to increase ambulatory solutions.
(viii)  Expand and consolidate the implementation of the EBAIS model for primary health care;
(ix)   Improve efficiency and effectiveness of the pharmaceutical supply chain;
(x)   Introduce measures to increase the equitable distribution of resources, targeting of public
subsidies and to shift to an activity and performance based hospital reimbursement system; and
(xi)   Roll-out the implementation of the recently developed CCSS collections system.
3. Benefits and target population:
The proposed project will provide support to the ongoing implementation of the modernization in the
CCSS and the MH. The ultimate beneficiaries of the reform will be the four million persons currently
covered by CCSS who will obtain better quality services, with a reduction in waiting times. The
implementation of a management information system that will allow for more effective identification of
the most disadvantaged CCSS members would improve targeting for an estimated 350,000 families.
Further, CCSS employees would benefit from the implementation of the CCSS decentralization policy
that will provide hospital managers more autonomy, and additional resources, to improve working
conditions.
The Health Sector Strengthening and Modernization Project would yield the following benefits: (a)
universal coverage of the population under the primary care model (EBAIS); (b) an MH better prepared
and equipped to enforce minimum quality standards for healthcare providers and to develop national
11



health policy; (c) a CCSS organizational structure that better responds to the needs of a decentralized
framework and to the separation of functions that have been guiding forces over the past decade; (d)
reductions in unnecessmay hospitalizations by increasing ambulatoty surgery; (e) fewer pharmaceutical
stock-outs and a more efficient pharmaceutical supply chain; and (f) a more equitable distribution of
resources.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The CCSS will be responsible for project implementation over a five-year period represented by the
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). As with the ongoing project, the PCU will continue to play an
important role of coordinator, facilitator and advisor to line departments in the CCSS and MH responsible
for the action plan and implementation of the project's main activities. Oversight of the project's
progress with the indicators in the Policy Activity Schedule (PAS) would be the responsibility of a
technical advisory committee under the leadership of the Gerencia de Modernizacion of the CCSS.
The operation of the project would be supported by the PCU under a functional organization structure
similar to the one in the ongoing project which has proven successful for that project's implementation.
The composition of technical and administrative-financial coordinating areas in the PCU is proposed to
ensure the integration and coherent implementation of project activities in CCSS and MH, avoiding the
creation of parallel structures within CCSS and MH. The PCU's principal functions include technical
coordination, communication, procurement and financial administration and technical assistance
functions. It will administer procurement and financial management, ensuring that all activities are
responsive to Bank norms and procedures in each area of implementation. To accelerate implementation
and avoid delays in procurement, the CCSS has advanced a legal definition (dictaimen legal) from the
internal CCSS legal department (Direcci6n Juridica) approving the use of Bank norms and procedures in
procurement activities. The legal opinion has been submitted to the General Comptroller's Office and it
is expected that no later than effectiveness the General Comptroller's Office would endorse this
definition. However, the mandate of ex-ante review (Refrendo) of the controlling bodies, by its
constitutional nature, would remain in place. Notwithstanding, agreements have been sought with the
Direcci6n Juridica on the lead time (7 working days) for the completion of the institutional refrendo.
Maintenance of a sound pace of procurement activity would depend very much on the proactive
positioning of the PCU through consistent and open communication with the legal team in the Direcci6n
Juridica.
Project financial management and auditing. The PCU has in place adequate financial management
arrangements for the ongoing Health Sector Reform Project. An action plan has been prepared with the
purpose of enhancing these arrangements and adapting them to the proposed new project. Substantial
completion of certain tasks in the financial management action plan will be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
Quarterly project management reports (PMRs), in formats to be agreed between the Government as
represented by CCSS and the IBRD, will be prepared and submitted to IBRD 45 days after the end of
each calendar quarter.
Before effectiveness, an independent audit firm acceptable to IBRD will be engaged to carry out the
covenanted yearly audit, in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) and terms of
reference to be approved by IBRD. Audited project and CCSS financial statements would be furnished to
IBRD no later than June 30 of the year following the period under review.
Further details are found in Annex 6.
12



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The following project alternatives were considered and rejected:
A Structural Adjustment Program with a strong health sector component or a Health Sector
Adjustment Loan. Although it would have made sense for Costa Rica to tackle several of the impending
social issues related to education, health and poverty alleviation within one program, in tune with the
macroeconomic framework, it was discarded as an option for the health sector given the unbalanced
development of policy priorities among the different sectors which may jeopardize the timely response to
health sector needs. Moreover, the technical assistance needs for supporting the policy strategy are
considered an integral part of an operation with the health sector. Given that policy priorities in the health
sector are clear and consensus building has been developing with all parties and institutions involved, it
made sense to consider an operation exclusively addressing the needs of the health sector and that would
include the technical assistance necessary to support the policy strategy that the country wants to follow.
A traditional investment loan. A traditional investment loan, including broadly defined investments and
accompanied by a Policy Letter, was considered and rejected. Although the Policy Letter would state all
identified priority policies in the sector, policy directionality would be more clearly maintained if a
different instrunient could be found. The first challenge was to develop an instrument that would
dynamically integrate and create a linkage between the identified policies and the necessary technical
assistance. Defining priorities to be addressed by the project among all issues described within country's
strategy became the second challenge. A description of the activities not addressed by the proposed
project follows as well as the reasons why they were rejected:
Investment. The CCSS has developed an investment strategy for the next five years and has made
important allocations to reduce the delay in hospital investment. In addition, other sources of financing
are available to the CCSS to finance equipment and infrastructure improvements at hospitals and health
centers around the country.
Information svstems. The project addresses this issue, but to a limited degree. For example, the project
will assist newly autonomous hospitals to improve their management capacity with selected investments
in information systems. In addition, no large, integrated information system for the central level CCSS is
foreseen under the proposed project since it would support continued implementation and improved use
of the discharge and quality information system developed under the first Health Reform Project.
Medical education. The CCSS is aware of this issue and is working with medical schools to develop an
improved curriculum that better reflects the existing needs and technological development in the field of
medicine.
Strengthening health promotion and prevention. No direct and earmarked investments are seen in the area
of expanded or strengthened health promotion and prevention programs. However, the proposed project
would seek to provide financial and technical resources to strengthen the EBAIS, which are the
Government's main instrument for extending both facility-based and outreach health services.
Increasingly, the EBAIS are expected to focus on promotion and prevention.
13



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
(Completed, ongoing and planned)
Bank-financed                                                  Implementation       Development
Progress (IP)     Objective (DO)
Institutional Strenghtening/Basic Health  Health Sector Reforrn       Ss 
Care Modenization                    Project (Ln. 3654)
Education                            Basic Education (Ln.             S                  S
3414S)
Water                                Water Supply (Ln. 3625S)         S                  S
11X)Ot SLMHe develop :;men agencie
fIrstO phatnse of tHihey retiform;toweve, th contrsactsr) mU(Usatbinkdctor) boHU tHihey bUdgetingfsytemrin
3. Lexassons Exerirne SandCS -elce inteprograma Nacionald
Thospitalns larned the preformacted inenie systefrm toeeitn health caeprsnelfand hroealthi Coteams Thea
evaluation n systmit   uank-suppored intrhienctivesyseml    as    h     eal     ssetme int
m Banagent ro tersaot des.intngran vlospin alarii
hospials ad theperfomanceincenivsytemtaeatlaraesonlanretiemsah
-evraluation Panamericaoabe lasald inth  inequiveasyse Salu Mtero b  ae  nteeautoytmih
mPaHOgemHn                         Inftracts
* The process of deconcentration, bringing more autonomy to hospitals and health areas, has
introduced, as expected, some confusion at the hospital director and central management levels. Both
Costa Rican and other Latin American experiences demonstrate that the process of change is slow and
it requires the design of a particular technical assistance strategy.
14



*  The improvement of the planning, procurement and delivery of pharmnaceuticals brings key savings to
health sectors and it is one of the most difficult changes to introduce in most countries. Based on
lessons learned drawn by the ongoing experiences in Chile (CENEBAST), Brazil and other countries,
the Costa Ricans are considering to tackle efficiency problems in this area while accommodating to
the newly acquired autonomy of hospitals and health areas and introducing e-procurement.
*  The successful primary health care model, EBAIS, requires specific adjustments to be implemented in
the urban setting. Moreover, private/public partnerships and flourishing management schemes are
proving to be not only acceptable for patients and communities but also to improve quality of care.
*  Coordination with other reform efforts, such as the restructuring of the MH supported by the IDB, has
proven successful. The CCSS has maintained the lead on such coordination and the Bank has
supported it.
* Although the National Procurement Law (Ley de Contrataci6n Administrativa) exempts international
financing agreements from the application of policies and procedures of the Law, there have been a
number of misunderstandings as to the hierarchy of Bank norms and procedures applicable to the
ongoing project. In addition, the constitutional mandate (Art. 184) of ex-post review of signed
contracts (known as refrendo) of the national and internal controlling bodies, and the low thresholds
of review (approximately US$75,000) by which the General Comptroller's Office involves itself in
the refrendo ( no-objection), have been important factors that have delayed or put on hold a number
of important project activities. There have been instances of open dialogue with country authorities
and donors that have raised awareness of the difficulties. It is concluded that most of the delays have
occurred as a result of the limited knowledge base of legal staff regarding Bank norms, and the
clearly defined exemptions to application of the Law. Both the client and the Bank have discussed
alternative solutions with national and internal controlling entities in an effort to overcome present
bottlenecks and to prevent future ones.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government of Costa Rica is fully committed to the health sector reforn, as indicated by the
following:
i  The establishment of broad national consultations on future steps of health reform, led by the
CCSS and the MH.
*  The introduction of changes to project design in accordance with results of broad consultations
and ongoing evaluations.
*  Government's support to the CCSS request for technical assistance to achieve the goals of the
health reform consolidation.
*  Both the CCSS, the MH and the Government have worked closely to overcome difficulties
related to procurement of goods and services under internationally financed projects.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
There are several ways in which the Bank will provide catalytic inputs for the deepening of health reform
in Costa Rica. Specifically, the proposed operation would ensure:
*  Continuity on the health reform effort that the Bank has been supporting technically and
financially through the ongoing Health Reform Project.
*  Maintenance of the dialogue with the Government on the health policy agenda, while technically
supporting the implementation of the program through changing political environments.
*  Provision of assistance to expand knowledge of international experiences in similar topics,
emphasizing and facilitating the dissemination of the Costa Rican experience to other countries.
15



E. Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4)
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US $75 million; ERR=79%
II    ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis
[    ] Other (specify)
The cost-benefit analysis of the Costa Rica Health Sector Strengthening and Modernization Project is
based upon the program's costs and the measurable direct economic benefits expected from the successful
implementation of the proposed program, because the productivity improvements in health status or
reduced mortality are difficult to measure the project. Direct benefits are the expected tangible benefits
accruable to the project from reducing hospital stays, eliminating unnecessary discharges, improving the
efficiency of the supply chain and restructuring and strengthening the CCSS and MH organizational
structures.
The Costa Rica Health Sector Strengthening and Modernization Project will produce substantial savings
for the sector, primarily through reductions in hospitalization costs resulting from ambulatory surgery,
pharmaceutical management and reduced overhead from increasing decentralization. The cost-benefit
analysis, which gives the project a cost benefit ratio (CBR) of 7, indicates that the project will yield
significant health benefits and economic benefits for Costa Rica's population. Even when projected
recurrent expenditures generated by the project are considered, the stream of benefits shows that the
project would be deemed highly desirable and would be financially sustainable.
System performance will be enhanced with an investment of US$23 million and US$1 million in
recurrent costs annually associated with improving access to primary health care services, improving
pharrnaceutical and medical inputs supply chain efficiency and decentralizing services in the provider
network. These enhancements are projected to save more than US$68 million over the life of the project
and more than US$190 million over a ten year horizon. In summary, the project would yield a net present
value (NPV) of benefits, after investment and recurrent costs, of more than US$75 million and produce an
internal rate of return (IRR) of nearly 80% over ten years.
While the above results are conservative, it is important to test the robustness of the results with regard to
potential delays or reductions in benefits. Uncertainty in the three main assumptions is reflected by using
sensitivity analysis to test the impact of delays of 2 and 3 years, as well as a reduction in benefits of 20%,
and 40%. Results show that overall, the project would remain justifiable even if project benefits are
delayed by 3 years and there is a 40% reduction in benefits received.
2. Financial: (see Annex 4 and 5)  NPV=US            million; FRR=            %
$
Fiscal impact:
Based on the current projections for health expenditures, the implementation of the project will cost less
than 0.1% of total CCSS expenditure on health care services in Costa Rica and less than 0.07% of total
expenditures, after the ninth year of the project, which is the starting point to analyze the sustainability of
the project. Recurrent costs attributable to recurrent costs from the implementation of the project
represent additional costs that are not significant in view of the CCSS expenditures and annual spending
increases.
These figures indicate that the project is highly sustainable from a financial standpoint. The analysis also
16



does not consider the potential additional revenues that the CCSS will potentially raise from increasing
the quality of service, improving efficiency in the SICERE billing system and reducing evasion. The first
Health Reform Project also shows that the CCSS has done an excellent job in assimilating recurrent costs
from the project into the operating budget. There is no indication that the political will or the financial
position of the CCSS will deteriorate in the future to reduce sustainability.
3. Technical:
Project design is built upon the findings and recommendations of technical studies and evaluations of the
current reform process. There are technical evaluations of the primary health care model (EBAIS), the
cooperative strategy for health care delivery in the urban areas, the process of management contracts
through the annual reports, an assessment of the pharmaceutical sector in Costa Rica and policy options, a
public expenditure review and patient's satisfaction surveys among others. All infornation was used to
propose a design that would fit local conditions, needs, priorities and respond to sustainability issues.
4. Institutional:
Three institutional issues have been analyzed during the design of the proposed operation. These are: the
appropriate institutional arrangements for regulatory leadership in the Costa Rican context; the
institutional characteristics of both the CCSS and health care providers (hospitals and health areas) and
their correspondence with the demands of decentralization; and the institutional arrangements for
executing project activities. The major issues and conclusions affecting the design and implementation of
the proposed project are summarized below:
a)    Institutional arrangements for regulatorv leadership. All stakeholders agree that regulatory
capacity in the sector must be strengthened, but the question of which institution should take
the lead has been debated. Due to the institutional structure and responsibilities of the CCSS
and the MH after the reform process in the 1990s, the regulatory role has not been fully
exercised by the recently transformed MH. As a result, the CCSS created a Superintendency
of Health (SUGESS) within the CCSS. However, most international experience indicates
that a regulatory agency such as a Superintendency is best placed outside of the financing
institution and separate from the providers of health care in order to exercise its duties in a
more impartial environment, and in perfect coordination with the regulatory functions of the
MH. The project is aware that it is not conducive to force this change before the SUGESS
strengthens even more its institutional capacity and therefore it would address this issue as a
priority and in accordance with the design of the best strategy to eventually make the
SUGESS an autonomous entity supervising the health sector as a whole and independent of
the CCSS.
b)    Institutional capacity under decentralization.   The process started by the Ley de
Desconcentracion has generated the need for institutional transformation of the CCSS. The
centralized structure that served well for insuring and delivering health care services to most
Costa Ricans in the past needs to adapt to the new ways of doing business. These "new
ways" include both the separation of finance and provision, and the movement toward greater
autonomy at the provider level. Autonomous hospitals and health areas do not require a
centralized CCSS structure, and therefore the central administration must revamp its
responsibilities and institutional structure.
By the same token, recently acquired autonomy in hospitals and health areas have created the need for
strong guidance about how to proceed effectively in a decentralized regime. New management schemes
are being designed and the CCSS does not currently have all the skills required to support technically
17



autonomous hospitals and health areas. There is a need for training in this area, and for targeted and
innovative technical assistance to accommodate efficiently the needs of the new context, both at the
CCSS and at the provider levels.
The proposed project addresses the institutional restructuring as one of the most important challenges for
the CCSS in the next five years. A significant amount of technical assistance, supported by the project,
will be directed toward this area. In addition, the proposed project will support technical assistance to
improve both central- level and provider-level capacity in key technical areas.
c)   Institutional Arrangements for Project Execution.  Lessons learned in five years of
implementation under the ongoing project in the CCSS and the MH have led a clear
understanding of the institutional strengths and limitations in the execution of projects in each
agency. The institutional capacity of the CCSS continues to be satisfactory while that of the
MH is less so. Indeed, the implementation capacity of the CCSS to respond to issues and
challenges, and to negotiate solutions has proven to be a positive factor that has fostered
advance in spite of exogenous forces derived from change of administration, staff turnover
and technical adjustment in project components. In contrast, the MH has not produced as
satisfactory results, including substantial delays in implementation of its Action Plan.
The proposed project would continue to support MH and IMAS in order to promote continued
involvement and cooperation among key actors in the health reform process. The CCSS would continue
to be an important partner and leader in ensuring consistent results where joint activities are required and
managing project administration functions. The PCU would continue to be the channel of communication
and coordination of project activities, with responsibilities in the registering, disbursement, and control of
project financial activity.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The principal executing agencies would be the CCSS and the health units participating in the
decentralization strategy, and the MH.
4.2 Project Management:
The PCU would be the principal actor in the administration of the project representing the CCSS before
the Bank during implementation and evaluation activities. The PCU composition is presently strong to
respond to the demands of coordination, monitoring and evaluation of technical and administrative-
financial activities of the ongoing project. However, some adjustments to the composition of the
technical staffmg of the PCU were agreed during project preparation to ensure more targeted approaches
and increased accountability of the PCU in the physical-financial results expected in the project. The
project would contract, following regular Bank procedures, qualified personnel for the PCU who could
not be considered CCSS staff,. Oversight of the project's progress and compliance with indicators
included in the Policy Activity Schedule (PAS) would be the responsibility of a technical advisory
committee, under the leadership and coordination of the Gerencia de Modernizaci6n of the CCSS. A
strong emphasis and assessment in the skills mix of staff in the administrative-financial area of the PCU
will be made to ensure a higher degree of performance and increased accountability in the delivery of
outcomes related to the Procurement and Contracting Plans (PACs), disbursement projections, physical
and financial monitoring, contracting of project audits and supervision of project activities as agreed
under the financial management reporting system (PMRs).  In the case of procurement activities of the
health units to be financed under the form of Grants under the deconcentration incentive framework of
subprojects, the PCU would be responsible for coordination, training, payments of contracts under grants
and supervision, and of contracting concurrent audits in this activity.
18



4.3 Procurement Issues:
The capacity assessment concluded that the PCU has adequate coordinating and operating arrangements
for the ongoing project, and that similar arrangements have been agreed for the proposed project as well.
Notwithstanding, the assessment reflects on the following issues and risks: i) difficult national
procurement environment regarding prevalence of Bank's Guidelines over national contracting law, and
controversies resulting from the ex - post review by the CGO of signed contracts, which often require
confonnity with national law, (ii) added responsibilities of the PCU in responding timely and effectively
to the delays in project Procurement and Contracting Plans (PACs), and following up of frequent bidder
disputes; and (iii) capacity of the PCU to coordinate and advise the health units in the procurement of
inputs included in their subprojects. An Action Plan to strengthen and enhance the procurement capacity
of the CCSS-PCU to address these issues and risks was agreed during negotiations. Procurement
Arrangements are described in first part of Annex 6.
4.4 The Regional Financial Management:
The team conducted the project financial management assessment, concluding that the PCU has in place
adequate financial management arrangements for the ongoing Health Sector Reform Project. An action
plan has been prepared with the purpose of enhancing these arrangements and adapting them to the
proposed new project.
Financial management arrangements are described in Annex 6.
5. Environmental:            Environmental Category      [ ] A  [ ]  B [X] C
An assessment was done by a third party specialized on medical waste management and in consultation
with the CCSS and the MH, using the results from past consultations with medical services providers and
patients. It analyzes carefully existent regulation and actual procedures in use, their strengths and
shortcomings as well as the progress accomplished by the institutions in their implementation. Support
from other agencies and special programs directed to improve medical waste management and control
have been analyzed as well as the appropriateness and pertinence of introducing special environmental
measures within this institutional reform operation.
The proposed project will deal mostly with institutional and organizational issues in the health sector in
Costa Rica. However, there are activities financed by the project that would enhance the ability of the
CCSS to increase ambulatory surgery in order to rationalize hospitalization use when appropriate and for
this reason an environmental assessment as described in Annex 2E was done. According to the findings
of the assessment, and the nature of this project as discussed in detail in Annex 2E, a category "C" has
been assigned.
Proposed Actions: The team analyzed all environmental legislation existing in the country and the
procedures actually used in hospitals for waste collection, disposal and/or storage, related issues with
transportation of waste if applicable, etc. The analysis was completed before the end of this project
appraisal, and in special consultation with the CCSS, the MH and the environmental health specialists,
concluded that this operation should not include special environmental measures given those already
existent at and being followed by the CCSS, the ongoing regulatory efforts by the MH and the specific
support Costa Rica is receiving from other agencies on this area. (See Annex 2E for further details).
19



6. Social:
The health system in Costa Rica is considered by many the best in the region, in line with OECD
countries, and with health indicators improving during the last decade. As indicated in the social
assessment (Annex 2D) the system is universal (covering all residents); equal (not including any type of
discrimination); subsidized (the Govermment is responsible that all health needs are covered); mandatory
to all employees (all must be affiliated); and voluntary to non-employees.
Moreover, as also indicated in the social assessment, users that were consulted during project preparation
present a high degree of satisfaction with its functioning. As reported, the waiting time to schedule an
appointmnent is one day or less; the time in the waiting room is short; pharmacies and laboratories respond
quickly to request for medicines and exams; and the health staff, particularly doctors, are highly
appreciated. However, benefits are uneven, with quality deficits in primary care (child care, prenatal
care, adolescent care, adult care and elderly care). The financial burden on the public sector is too strong,
the involvement of the private sector still weak, and communities only recently began to be involved with
the sector.
Community involvement is a particularly important social development aspect of the proposed project
because of the reliance on participatory mechanisms that has the EBAIS model for primary care. With
the aim to support the coordination of planning and delivery of health services, community driven groups
(Juntas de Salud) started to be created last year, with tripartite representation which includes
beneficiaries. The proposed project will undertake an special effort to strengthen their capacity and
expand their number. Although it is too early to evaluate their impact, a consultation process conducted
with communities across the country showed problems related to lack of coordination between the Juntas
and the health staff, and with the degree of responsiveness of the latter to the former. Lack of sufficient
logistic support, absenteeism of some of the Junta's members and lack of knowledge to deal with issues
as budget and administration were some of the complaints.
Finally, tailored interventions may be needed to address particular needs of disadvantaged and minority
groups. Although the project's preparation has benefited from several beneficiary assessments and
consultation with communities across the entire country, their design and recommendations do not
identify the appropriate interventions to be designed in those cases. The proposed project has budgeted a
consultation process with those groups, and, if necessary, the design and implementation of culturally
appropriated interventions. A Bank's senior specialist in the particular issues concerning those groups
will advise the Borrower on how to conduct the consultation process, including on the best ways to make
it representative, and on what should be the more adequate kinds of interventions.
Social development outcomes include: (a) improved access to health services, particularly regarding
coverage of PHC programs; (b) improved quality in the delivery of health services, including for age
cohorts that demand tailored interventions (well baby care, well child care, adolescent health and elderly
health); (c) social equity involved in the distribution of CCSS funds; and (d) tailored interventions to
disadvantaged and minority groups.
The process of health reform has been an extended process originating in the early 1990s with a wide
consultation process on the need to change the healthcare model in Costa Rica. The Bank has been
involved in this consultation process and the development of health policy since the early 1990s and has
often worked in collaboration with the CCSS to include community participation issues as part of the
reform process. In particular, the project's design benefited from two participatory evaluation conducted
during preparation. The first was a survey with users about their degree of satisfaction with the health
system, covering 1,789 randomly sampled beneficiaries in 296 Health Areas; 223 clinics and 1,270
hospitals. Sixty two percent of those interviewed were women. The second was a survey with members of
20



90 Juntas to analyze (i) their coordination with the administration of health facilities; (ii) their
commitment with the interests of the communities they represent; (iii) their willingness to participate; and
(iv) their capacity to support the administration of health facilities.
Under the ongoing Health Sector Reform Project, a number of policies were introduced that promote
greater participation and voice from the project's primary beneficiaries. First, regulations on consumer
rights were approved by the CCSS Board as early as 1998. Second, the CCSS developed community
participation as a core element of the primary care model, incorporating specific activities where the
community and key stakeholders could participate in the planning and evaluation of healthcare services.
Third, the implementation of more than 100 health care boards (Juntas de Salud) provided the final and
formal element by which the community, workers and business leaders could participate in the health care
system. Through these three mechanisms, stakeholders have been able to participate in the identification
of main issues and potential solutions that will be addressed by the proposed project.  The proposed
project will continue to support implementation of all mentioned activities.
Consensus building has been a critical element of the reform process from the start. As mentioned above,
the Bank has been closely involved in the health policy dialogue in Costa Rica for nearly ten years and
has supported the government in its efforts to advance a policy agenda with a broad consensus.
During Preparation: The proposed project has followed a similar path of consensus building.
Since April 2000, CCSS authorities have held more than 10 broad consultation meetings with key
members of Costa Rica's main political parties involved in the healthcare sector. During these
meetings, the elements of the sector's Policy Action Schedule were discussed and concerns were
taken into consideration in the design of the project's reform schedule. In addition to the
consultations with key members of each party, specific consultations were made with aspiring
presidential candidates and key congressmen to discuss the project and obtain feedback.
Implementation: Community engagement is guaranteed in the current process of reform through
the organization of Juntas de Salud, created by Law 7852 (Ley de Desconcentraci6n de Clinicas y
Hospitales de la Caja Costarricense del Seguro Social), enacted November 30, 1998. The
creation of the Juntas was a response to the perceived need to make the system more participatory
and responsive. Juntas were then defined as auxiliary entities to enhance the use of citizenship
rights by making citizens co-participants of the implementation, monitoring and definition of the
priorities of the CCSS.
A comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system will be developed during the first six months of the
proposed project. This system will be managed by a third party, most likely one of the national, public
universities, to ensure transparency and unbiasedness in the evaluation process. The system will be used
to carry out bi-annual evaluations with the Bank and these evaluations will be an integral part of the
planning process to guarantee that the proposed investment plans are directly related to the social
development objectives.
The M&E system highlighted in the previous section will constitute the backbone of the project
monitoring system. This system will include all key performance indicators, in addition to other
indicators that the CCSS and the Bank agree to include for monitoring and evaluation purposes.
Beneficiary assessments and surveys on user's satisfaction that have been conducted during the ongoing
Health Sector Reform project and have been used as an instrument for performance and evaluation would
be updated under the proposed project.
21



7. Safeguard Policies:
Policy                                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)      No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)              No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                               No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                             No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                              No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                        No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                         No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)    No
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Based on current projections for health expenditures, the implementation of the project will cost less than
0.1 percent of total CCSS expenditure on health care services in Costa Rica, and less than 0.07 percent of
total expenditures, after the ninth year of the project, which is the starting point for the analysis of
sustainability. Recurrent costs attributable to implementation of the project represent additional costs that
are insignificant in view of the CCSS expenditures and annual spending increases.
These figures indicate that the project is highly sustainable from a financial standpoint. The analysis also
does not consider the potential additional revenues that CCSS is likely to raise from increasing the quality
of service, improving efficiency in the SICERE billing system and reducing evasion. The ongoing Health
Sector Reform Project also shows that CCSS has done an excellent job of assimilating recurrent costs
from the project into the operating budget.
The main factors critical for sustainability of the benefits of the proposed project are:  (a)  the
government's commitment and institutional stability to engage in a continuing process of reform,
evaluation and reorientation, when needed particularly during the forthcoming electoral period; (b)
sustaining the change effort to avoid slowing the pace of reform implementation; (c) the ability of the
CCSS to absorb net increases in recurrent costs associated with the project (primarily for extension of the
EBAIS) into its operating budget.
From an institutional perspective, the risks to sustainability could be substantial if the reform course and
orientation are modified by significant political changes. However, the reforms being supported under
the proposed project represent a logical next step in a decade-long trajectory, and many of the changes to
be implemented are accepted by a majority of the key interest groups; the CCSS has proven to manage the
process of change quite well and during the first phase of the reforms the bank's support was beneficial
to assist the CCSS in managing those risks. The ability of the CCSS to undertake evaluation studies is
high and the dialogue with other stake holders and institutions has proven fruitful. Given these particular
circumstances, the risks to sustainability are considered modest. There is no indication that the political
will or the financial position will deteriorate in the future to reduce sustainability.
22



2. Critical Risks:
From Outputs to Objective_
Government's commitment and institutional stability  S       Consultation among political parties
to implement the project in support of a continuing          and other key interest groups
process of reforrn, evaluation and reorientation,
when needed particularly in light of upcoming                 Support for widely accepted reform
Presidential elections.                                      program
Collaboration with a strong institution
(CCSS)
Opposition to change within the CCSS slowing the   M         All units of the CCSS consulted and
pace of reform implementation.                               involved in reform process
implementation and design. Technical
inputs being shared through Bank
involvement during supervision of
implementation process.
Coordination between the CCSS and the MH is         N        Institutional arrangements have been
poor, impeding progress on the aspects of the project        agreed to by all parties after extensive
dealing with regulation.                                     discussion.
From Components to Outputs
Behavioral responses of CCSS central level staff,  M         Design takes advantage of
hospital managers, health care providers and                 considerable knowledge of reform
consumers are slower or of a different nature than           processes in the region.
anticipated.
National contracting law procedures related to     S         CCSS agreement on accepting Bank
procurement will slow implementation                         procedures has been obtained and prior
approval by The General
Comptroller's Office will be obtained
by effectiveness.
Overall Risk Rating                                M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
(a)    Government's commitment and institutional stability to implement the project in support
of a continuing process of reform, evaluation and reorientation when needed. particularly in light
of upcoming Presidential elections. This risk is substantial. Although, in general, the changes to
be implemented are part of a long-term, widely accepted reform process, the change of
government could introduce an element of instability and uncertainty that could lead potentially
to delays in implementation of the project. To mitigate this risk, there has been a broad process
of consultation across political parties, and the signals indicate that the main themes of the reform
would be adopted regardless of the outcome of upcoming elections.
(b)    Opposition to change within the CCSS slowing the pace of reform implementation. This
risk is moderate. The CCSS Board has an important function in supporting the reform process
and its implementation pace. The CCSS Directive has demonstrated excellent ability when
dealing with internal institutional difficulties in the past. Previous Bank's support for the reform
process has helped to bring technical aspects to light, mitigating the risk of opposition to change.
23



(c)    Although the relationship between the MH and the CCSS is very good, coordination of
their activities is poor. impeding progress on the aspects of the project dealing with regulation.
This risk is low. CCSS and the MH are fundamentally different organizations, with different
organizational cultures and functions. In addition, the MH's dramatic role change in the early
1990s has left it with a strong regulatory responsibility within the health sector but with a weak
capacity to deliver; moreover, the process of transformation is still ongoing, leading to some
confusion and lack of clarity on how to function as the health sector normative and regulatory
institution. Therefore, there is some chance that the project activities that require close
coordination between CCSS and the MH (i.e., strengthening and implementing the regulatory
framework for quality assurance of health services) would not be implemented effectively. To
mitigate this risk, the design team has worked closely with both institutions to arrive at
agreements about the division of responsibilities. Based on experience, the tearn has concluded
that the CCSS should be totally responsible for the implementation of activities in the MH within
the project and both institutions would work closely with the development of the technical
assistance activities.
(d)    Behavioral responses of CCSS central level staff, hospital managers. health care
providers and consumers to recent changes in the system are slower or of a different nature than
anticipated. This is a moderate risk. Many of the benefits of the project depend on the behavioral
response of the providers and consumers affected. For example, some of the project outcomes
depend on hospital workers (including physicians) responding to new incentives and management
structures, and changing their behavior (prescribing practices, work patterns, etc.) accordingly to
achieve efficiency objectives. This risk is mitigated in two ways: first, by applying the most up-
to-date knowledge about the types of health sector reform initiatives that have succeeded (and
failed) in other countries in the region, and implementing a hands-on approach to technical
assistance to autonomous hospitals and health areas; second, by developing and using a
monitoring and evaluation framework to accompany and monitor progress, which will permit the
implementation of midcourse adjustments if required.
(e)    National administrative procedures related to procurement will slow implementation.
This is a substantial risk. One of the lessons from the ongoing Health Sector Reform Project is
that the pace and timeliness of implementation depended on the Government's acceptance of the
use of World Bank procurement procedures instead of national procedures for the purchasing of
consultant and other services and goods. To mitigate this risk, the government will forward a
written statement indicating that the National Comptroller's Office will accept World Bank
procedures. The "Direcci6n Juridica" of the CCSS and the MI are already working on this.
3. Possible Controversial
N/A
G. Main Loan Conditions
Effectiveness Conditions:
1. CCSS shall have adopted the Annual Action Plan for the Year 2002, satisfactory
to the Bank.
2. Subsidiary Agreement between the CCSS and the MOF signed.
3. The CCSS shall have adopted the Operational Manual in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank.
4. Signed contract with independent auditors.
5. Project financial management arrangements satisfactory to IBRD are in place and
functional.
24



H. Readiness for Implementation
[N/A] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for
the start of project implementation.
[ ] 1. b) Not applicable.
[ ] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
A fully staffed and functioning PCU, where administrative, financial and procurement functions are
satisfactorily performed, including a full set of project specific SBDs and RFP documents, and a GPAC
prepared for the life of the project.
[X] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader: Maria'tut a-Escobar
Sector Director: Xavier Coll
Country Director: Donna owseff-Coirolo
25



Annex 1
Costa Rica Health Sector Strengthening and Modernization Project
Project Design Summary
Hierarchy of Objectives                Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Sector Related CAS Goal                Sector Indicators:                Sector / Country     (From Goal to Bank
To improve efficiency and equity in the  Total health expenditure as     Reports:              Mission)
health sector, integrating preventive and  percentage of GDP at least constant   CCSS and MH annual
curative services and suggesting to the  in five years while patient     health budgets.
Government to further develop appropriate   satisfaction improves        Total private and
regulation and mechanisms to encourage                                   public expenditure on
private sector participation in the provision                            health.
of social services.                                                      Patient's satisfaction
surveys.
Project Development Objective:         Outcome/Impact Indicators:        Project Reports:     (From Objective to
Improving health system performance and    1. New organizational structure of  Bi-annual evaluation    Goal)
financial sustainability by supporting the  the CCSS - based on separation  of compliance with  The Government will
following policy changes at the CCSS and   of financing, purchasing and  Policy Activity       maintain its
the MH: i) align the organizational and    provision and according to    Schedule (PAS).       commitment to health
functional structure of the CCSS according  decentralization process     Report produced based  reform strategy and the
to recent separation of purchasing and     approved and implemented      on M&E system         CCSS Board will
provision functions and new            2.  New strategy for human        designed by the       consider and approve
decentralization process; ii) strengthen   resource management approved  project from beginning  the necessary changes.
regulatory framework and MH regulatory     and implemented.              of implementation.
capacity; iii) improve quality and efficiency  3.  % of public and private  (Baseline indicators
of the CCSS health delivery network; iv)   providers accredited by MH.   agreed during
introduce changes in the planning,     4.  % increase in quality-adjusted    appraisal).
purchasing and distribution of             coverage rates in primary health
pharmaceuticals and medical supplies; v)   care.
develop mechanisms to improve regional    5.  % increase in ambulatory
equity, targeting of public subsidies,     surgery equivalent to 20% of
efficiency in provider payment mechanisms  total discharges.
and CCSS resource collection.          6.  % increase in lower income
patients' satisfaction with
CCSS health care providers.
7.  % of CCSS hospitals with a
professional manager as CEO
and working under rules and
procedures of "Reglamento de
Desconcentraci6n".
8.  % of CCSS health care
providers operating under
performance contracts.
9.  % decrease of total
pharmaceutical budget spent on
warehouse storage costs.
10. % decrease of time between
initial bid and delivery of
pharmaceuticals.
11. Improved equity by reducing
gap among CCSS health area
per capita resource allocation.
12. 4% real annual increase on
revenue collection as a result of
successful centralized
collection system and evasion
reduction.
26



Hierarchy of Objectives                 Key Performance Indicators       Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Output from each Component:             Output Indicators:               Project Reports:      (From Outputs to
Component I - Policy Design and        A. Institutional Strenethenine and   Bi-annual evaluation    Objective)
Development                            Reeulation                        of compliance with    CCSS Board approves
Areas of Intervention according to PAS:  .   Human resource restructuring    Policy Activity   and facilitates
A. Institutional Strengthening and      plan approved by CCSS Board.     Schedule (PAS).       implementation of
Regulation                              .   CCSS restructuring plan      Report produced based  policy changes.
*   Completed CCSS organizational and    implemented.                    on M&E system
institutional restructuring process.    *   Comprehensive Strategy to    designed by the       CCSS administrative
.   Strengthened and consolidated CCSS    modernize pharmaceutical planning,  project from beginning  personnel successfully
"Direcci6n de Compra".                  procurement processes and        of implementation.    adapts to new
.   Modernized CCSS capacity for       information systems approved by                         responsibilities
planning, purchasing and provision of   CCSS.                                                  regarding purchasing of
pharnaceuticals and medical supplies.   *   Pharmaceutical warehouse                           health care services and
*   Strengthened stewardship function of   costs expenditure reduced by 10 %                   planning, purchasing
MH.                                     annually.                                              and distribution of
.   Improved regulatory framework for   .   Improved evaluation                                pharmaceuticals.
public and private provision of health  framework for management
services.                               contracts approved by CCSS Board.                      CCSS health care
.   MH restructuring plan                              providers successfully
successfully implemented.                              adapt to new
*   Draft regulatory framework                         responsibilities under
completed by first bi-annual                           autonomous scheme.
evaluation.
.   Regulatory framework                               Strong support at
approved at MH by second bi-                           National Hospitals to
annual evaluation.                                     use DRGs as
reimbursement
B. Health Care Service Delivery         B. Health Care Service Delivery                         mechanism.
.   Successful operation of hospitals and    *   Forty percent of hospitals
health areas under autonomy rules and   purchasing their own
procedures according to existing Law.   pharmaceuticals and medical
.   Increased ambulatory surgery.       supplies.
.   Improved system for planning,       .   Al] 10 hospitals (including
purchasing and distributing pharmaceuticals  National) presently covered by the
and medical supplies.                   "Law of Deconcentration" operating
.   Fully consolidated EBAIS in low     under newly acquired autonomous
income regions.                        responsibilities with support from
Grants.
.   Comprehensive ambulatory
surgery strategy approved by CCSS
Board.
.   Ambulatory surgery increases
to 20 % of all CCSS discharges,
supported by subprojects.
*   100 more EBAIS open with
emphasis in the "Brunca' region.
C. Financing and Resource Allocation    C. Financine and Resource
*   Completed and accepted algorithm to    Allocation
improve equity on the distribution of CCSS   *   CCSS Board approval of
resources.                             resource allocation formula to
*   Improved and piloted information   improve equity.
system for targeting public subsidies   *   Improved SIPO used at CCSS
improved at CCSS.                      to allocate subsidies to low income
.   Approved Comprehensive Strategy     population.
Plan to increase revenue collection through   *   CCSS Board approval of a
new SICERE system and improved          Comprehensive Strategy Plan to
invoicing.                              develop advanced stages of
invoicing system and extend CCSS
capability as central collection
agency from 50 to 80 % of
contributions.
.   At least two National Hospitals
successfully using DRGs as
reimbursement mechanism.
27



Hierarchy of Objectives                 Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Output from each Component:             Output Indicators:                Project Reports:       (From Outputs to
Component 11 -Monitoring &             .   M&E system designed and        Bi-annual evaluation    Objective)
Evaluation and Project Management      implemented                       reports of compliance
.   Timely M&E reports            with PAS, based on
.   PCU's timely project          M&E system.
management reports                Project management
reports
Project Components / Sub-components:   Inputs: (budget for each           Project Reports:      (From Components to
Component I- Policy Design and          component)                        Project administrative   Outputs)
Implementation                                                            reports done by the
Consultant services & training for:   PCU and bi-annual
Areas of Intervention according to PAS:  .   Designing and implementing   evaluation reports of
A. Institutional Strenetheninj and      CCSS restructuring plan.           compliance with PAS.
Reeulation                              .   Designing and implementing
appropriate human resource training
strategy.
.   Developing of outcome-based
indicators and its incorporation into
management contracts.
.   Designing and implementing
strategies to improve pharmaceutical
supply chain management and
efficiency at the hospital level.
.   Supporting implementation of
restructuring plan for MI-.
.   Preparing draft regulations on
core regulatory issues facing the
MH.
*   Supporting IMAS and other
social sector institutions involved in
social sector planning, and priority
setting.
*   Visits to other country systems
-study tours.
Information systems (software /
hardware) for:
.  Managing health care service
purchasing and evaluation process
at CCSS "Direcci6n de Compra".
*  Support to management
information systems for MH
restructuring plan.
28



Hierarchy of Objectives                Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
B. Health Care Service Delivery         Consultant services & training for:   M&E system bi-
*   Defining strategic plan and  annual evaluation
investment strategy to increase  reports of compliance
ambulatory surgery.              with PAS
*   Supporting the implementation
of increased autonomy in hospitals
and health areas.
*   Supporting hospitals in the
implementation of pharmaceutical
and medical supply purchasing
according to "Law of
Deconcentration".
*   Designing and implementing
pharmacy benefit system to improve
rational drug use.
*   Consultations to minority
groups in order to deliver culturally
appropriate services through new
EBAIS.
*   Visits to other country systems
-study tours.
Grants for Subprolects:
* Allowing all 10 hospitals
operating under the "Law of
Deconcentration" as autonomous
entities, to use modem managerial
and administrative procedures.
Minor civil works for:
. Remodeling hospital space to
increase ambulatory surgery
Medical Equintent for:
Increasing ambulatory surgery and
to consolidate EBAIS.
29



Hierarchy of Objectives                 Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
C. Financing and Resource Allocation    Consultant services & training for:   M&E bi-annual
*   Designing and implementing    evaluation reports of
changes in the capitation formula to   compliance with PAS
allow for risk adjustment.
*   Designing improvements to
SIPO instrument.
.   Training for CCSS and IMAS
for use of improved SIPO.
*   Supporting continued
implementation of case mix related
payment systems in CCSS hospitals
(DRGs).
*   Supporting the implementation
of the centralized collection system
(SICERE).
*   Supporting implementation of
NHA (health accounts).
.   Visits to other country systems
-study tours.
Information systems (software /
hardware) for:
.  Improving system for targeting
of public social expenditures
(SIPO).
a  Improving CCSS use and
maintenance of SIPO instrument.
*  Obtaining Software licenses
required for managing DRG system
in hospitals.
*  Supporting implementation of
invoicing system (SICERE).
Component II - Monitoring &             Inputs: (budget for each          Project Reports:       (From Components to
Evaluation and Project Management       component                         M&E Plan:              Outputs)
Consultant services & trainine for:   Report with baseline
Design and implementation of M&E   indicators.
system for project implementation.    Bi-Annual evaluation
Information systems (software and    reports presented to
hardware for:                     the Bank. (one for first
M&E system                        evaluation in
December 2002; one
for second evaluation
in December 2004).
30



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
Costa Rica Health Sector Strengthening and Modernization II
Project Purpose
The proposed project would support the ongoing reform process in the Costa Rican health sector. The
first phase of the reforms, supported by Bank Loan CR-3654, has been successful at introducing new
management tools to improve efficiency and quality in the provider network, extend the coverage of the
primary care system and improving information systems for CCSS collection of social security
contributions. The second phase of the reforms would support consolidation of the first phase reforms,
and pursue: changes in the CCSS and MH organizational structure, improvements in the regulatory
framework, decentralization of providers, strengthening management of the pharmaceutical supply chain
and improved resource allocation. The project would be implemented over a five-year period.
Project development objectives
This project aims to improve health system performance and financial sustainability by supporting the
ongoing policy changes in the health sector in Costa Rica. Most of these changes are part of second-
phase reforms in the Costa Rican Social Security Institute (Caja Costarricense de Seguridad Social, or
CCSS). For the short- to medium-term, these policy changes will: (a) align the organizational and
functional structure of the CCSS with recent changes separating financing, purchasing and provision of
health services at all levels; (b) promote improvements in quality and fulfillment of consumer rights, as
well as the efficiency and effectiveness of the Ministry of Health (MH) as a regulatory agency, by
strengthening the institutional and regulatory framework; (c) improve the quality and efficiency of the
CCSS health delivery system by supporting decentralization of decision-making, consolidation of the
primary care delivery network based on a population-based system, and introduction of performance-
based incentives for providers; (d) reduce inefficiencies in the pharmaceutical subsector and promote
rational drug use by introducing changes in the planning, purchasing and distribution of pharmaceuticals
and supplies; and (e) develop financial mechanisms that will improve the equitable distribution of
resources, improve efficiency in the provider payment mechanisms and strengthen the CCSS's capacity to
collect payroll contributions.
Project Components
Project Component 1 - Policy Design and Implementation - US$20.75 million
Objective. The objective of the component is to support the implementation of strategies and instruments
required to achieve the objectives set forth in the Policy Activity Schedule (PAS) (Annex 2.A). The
strategies and instruments of the PAS focus on guaranteeing access to and provision of quality, effective
and efficient health services in the CCSS.
Implementation. The component will be implemented with activities supporting the CCSS, the MH and
sectoral coordination. Implementation will require procurement of local and foreign technical assistance,
information systems, medical equipment and furniture, remodeling works related to reconditioning
facilities for ambulatory care, and training. The CCSS board will have an active role in evaluating and
approving the critical strategies and instruments developed by the project and the management units in the
CCSS will have the responsibility of implementing the changes within the institution. In the case of the
MH, the PCU will make resources available for development of the proposed activities and coordinate
implementation with the ME counterpart.
Monitoring and Evaluation. The proposed project will develop a comprehensive M&E System that will
measure the impact of all project activities. While the system will focus mainly on evaluating the impact
31



indicators of Annex I, other indicators will be included to allow for in depth measurement of the changes
in quality and effectiveness of healthcare services. The results of the M&E system will be an integral part
of the dialogue with the Bank on the required investments and technical assistance.
Project Activity Schedule (PAS) Areas. The following description is complemented by the PAS table
and the technical assistance matrix that are included as annexes 2.A and 2.B, respectively.
A. Institutional Strenethenine and Regyulation - US$ 4.6 million
Objective. The objective of this PAS area is to strengthen and improve the CCSS and the MH to allow
each institution to execute better their functions and roles within the health care system. The strategies
and instruments of the component will focus on each institution's organizational structure and functional
divisions, human resource strategies and the regulatory framework.
Main Activities and Expenditure Categories. The project will develop actions to support the following
activities:
*  Support the implementation of CCSS and MH organizational and institutional restructuring processes
that were designed and initiated under the ongoing Health Sector Reform Project. Continued
implementation will require ongoing support to redesign internal processes, and organizational
designs, to ensure that the organizational and functional structures 'fit' with the new roles in the
health system;
*  Provide ongoing support to the CCSS Purchasing Departnent "Direcci6n de Compra" to allow for
further development of outcome-based indicators and to support the implementation of the national
health plan (PASP) and the strategic health service plan (PESS);
-  Strengthening of the systems related to planning, procurement and distribution of pharmaceuticals
and medical supplies to CCSS providers. The actions to be supported under the project would focus
on improving transparency, reducing inefficiencies, promoting rationale use policies and
reengineering process to reduce stock-outs, spoilage and theft;
*  Support improved sectoral coordination among human development actors: CCSS, MH, Ministry of
Education, and IMAS; and
*  Assist the MH with the development of regulations for quality assurance that promote strengthened
stewardship function of Mi;
To obtain these results, the project will finance the following activities: a) Studies and assessments to
develop the organizational, functional, legal and regulatory instruments of CCSS and MH; b) technical
assistance, c) training including seminars, workshops and study tours; and d) goods including medical
equipment and furniture, and information systems, including software and licenses.
B. Health care service delivery - US$ 12.2 million
Objective. The objective of this strategic area is to strengthen the CCSS provider network to improve
quality, efficiency and effectiveness of health care services. The strategies and instruments developed
will support the CCSS decentralization policy aimed at improving the providers' capacity to manage
resources and improve responsiveness to consumer's needs at the facility level, invest in ambulatory
solutions that will allow the CCSS to increase ambulatory solutions, consolidate and extend the
implementation of the primary care model (EBAIS) and develop new instruments to improve supply
chain efficiency for pharmaceuticals and medical supplies.
Implementation of the deconcetration incentive framework of sub-projects financed by Grants.
The activities in this area will be executed under two distinct but interrelated mechanisms. Support will
be provided for assistance to providers undergoing decentralization and investments will be supported
that aim to increase efficiency, support decentralization and promote greater use of ambulatory solutions.
32



The first mechanism will promote these actions through strategic planning and bidding processes
supported by the CCSS and the PCU, at the central level. The second mechanism would be the use of
grants for the implementation of subprojects to promote decentralization and develop institutional
capacity among health care providers. The financing of contracts will be in the form of grants, to be
approved when subprojects are approved by the CCSS. Grants have been identified for two discrete
areas: (a) first, grants to finance subprojects to strengthen the provider's capacity to assume decentralized
management and to improve the quality of care to patients; and (b) second, grants to finance subprojects
to increase ambulatory interventions, reduce waiting times and improve patient focus through the
introduction of innovative interventions.
Main Activities and Expenditure Categories. The project will focus on the following actions to obtain
improvements in the provider network:
*  Support to CCSS providers throughout the implementation of the decentralization process, ensuring
that they receive technical assistance and training required for a timely and successful implementation;
*  Development and implementation of a comprehensive strategy to increase ambulatory solutions that
lead to greater quality, user satisfaction and efficiency for CCSS hospitals. This would include
ambulatory surgery, home care and other innovative solutions that pursue these objectives;
*  Support providers with the implementation of the policies related to decentralized purchasing of
pharmaceuticals and medical supplies. The actions to be supported under the project would focus on
building capacity in CCSS providers to assume the new functions devolved under the regulations of the
decentralization law; and
- Continue to support the implementation of EBAIS in low-income regions that have not been fully
developed under the ongoing Health Sector Reform project and consolidate the development of the model
in those EBAIS that require additional support.
The project will finance the following activities: a) Technical assistance and training to support providers
in the implementation of strategies to improve quality and efficiency as part of the decentralization
process; b) training including seminars, workshops and study tours; c) grants to finance subprojects aimed
at supporting decentralization and reconditioning of health facilities required for the implementation of
ambulatory solutions; and f) goods, including medical, communication, office equipment and furniture
and informnation systems and software.
C. Financing and Resource Allocation - US$ 3.84 million
Objective. The objective of this strategic area is to develop resource allocation mechanisms to promote
greater equity in the CCSS and develop reimbursement mechanisms for providers that promote incentives
to increase quality and efficiency in the delivery network.
Main Activities and Expenditure Categories. The project will focus on supporting the following
activities:
*  Design and implementation of algorithms to improve equity in the distribution of CCSS resources to
health areas (Areas de Salud).
*  Implementation of the SIPO information system to improve targeting of public subsidies to CCSS
beneficiaries.
a  Support the implementation of provider reimbursement mechanisms for health areas and hospitals
that seek to introduce incentives to improve efficiency and quality of services. These action will support
prior developments in the areas of DRGs and capitation;
*  Support the roll-out of the SICERE system to extend coverage of the CCSS collection system to the
remaining branch offices; and
*  Support the CCSS in the developments of action required to ensure implementation of the Ley de
Proteccion del Trabajador.
33



The project will finance the following activities: a) Studies and assessments; b) technical assistance; c)
training including seminars, workshops and study tours; and d) goods, including office furniture and
communication and information systems and software.
Project Component II - Project Management and Evaluation- US$ 2.75 million
Objective. This component will support an ongoing monitoring and evaluation system that will provide
for a comprehensive evaluation of the project's results. Support would also be provided by the proposed
project for the management and supervision of the project through the Project Coordinating Unit.
Implementation. Implementation of the project will be the responsibility of the CCSS, although the MH
will actively participate in key strategies of the project and will receive project resources for support of
regulatory and organizational changes. The CCSS will also coordinate with other sector agencies, such as
IMAS, to allow for improved targeting to low income households and to develop integrated human
development policies. The project coordinating unit (PCU) would continue to act as a facilitator and
coordinator of all project activities. Oversight of the project's progress with the indicators of the PAS
would be the responsibility of a technical advisory committee to the Direction of the CCSS's "Gerencia
de Modernizaci6n ". The organizational chart below displays the structure of the PCU for this operation.
A very similar structure has been successfully used for implementation of the ongoing project and it
ensures integration of the instruments developed under the project into the operations of the CCSS and
the MH. At the same time, this component will support development of IEC activities.
Implementation of the M&E system will be executed with the support of an outside agency, which will be
contracted competitively, to allow for greater transparency and the unbiased presentation of results. The
contractor will work with the PCU to prepare the bi-annual reports that will be used in the dialogue with
the Bank.
Presidencia
Ejecutiva
ccss
Gerencia
Modernizaci6n -
ccss
A Advisory Cmte .|
Institutional |   Delivery  |    inancing             Administrative-
Strengthening      Networks    I                       Adminancial
Coordinator
Budget        Accounting   Procurement   Disbursement
34



Main Activities and Expenditure Categories. The PCU will carry out coordination, communication,
administration, financial and advisory functions. It will administer procurement, financial management
and auditing functions in accordance with Bank norms and procedures. Expenditures include, inter alia,
consultant services, goods, training and grants for sub-projects to be financed by the Bank. The CCSS
will finance O&M (maintenance, consumables, communication services, and travel and subsistence
expenses related to supervision and training in the project) and costs of staffing of the PCU. These
activities will be financed and procured following- CCSS administrative procedures detailed in the
Operational Manual.
35



Annex 2.A. Policy Activity Schedule (PAS)
Area                 Objectives                          Issue                       First Evaluation         Second Evaluation
I                              I                                   I       (December 2002)          (December 2004)
1.  INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AND REGULATION
Institutional       To introduce the organizational    The CCSS continues with a centralized  a)  New organizational structure  a)  New strategy for human
Strengthening of    changes that are required to   organizational structure that is        of the CCSS - based            resource management
the CCSS            prepare the CCSS for increasing    incompatible with new decentralized  separation of financing,      approved and
decentralization and other     functions and the separation of         purchasing and provision       implemented.
changes related to the separation   financing from provision of health  and according to
of financing and provision.    services.                               decentralization process   b)  Implementation of new
approved by CCSS Board.        organizational structure of
the CCSS - based
separation of financing,
purchasing and provision
and according to
decentralization process as
defined during the first
evaluation.
The continued strengthening and   The implementation of management    b)  At least 20% of contracts  d)  At least 60% of contracts
consolidation of the Direccion de   contracts, and the development of  with CCSS health care          with CCSS health care
Compra in the CCSS will remain   public/private partnerships, requires  providers include outcome     providers include outcome
a critical issue with regard to the   strengthening of the capacity to  indicators operating under    indicators operating under
overall success of the reforms.  formulate outcome based indicators    performance contracts.         performance contracts.
and to evaluate these indicators.
c)  15% increase in quality    c)  40% increase in quality
adjusted coverage rates in     adjusted coverage rates in
primary health care.           primary health care.
d)  % increase in lower
income patients'
satisfaction with CCSS
health care providers.
36



Annex 2.A. Policy Activity Schedule (PAS)
Area                 Objectives                          Issue                       First Evaluation         Second Evaluation
I       (December 2002)          (December 2004)
Institutional      To support completion of the   The institutional strengthening of the    a), Human resource        a)  50% of Ministry of Health
Strengthening of    ongoing restructuring process of   MOH started with a trasformation of  strengthening and             regions having assumed
the MOH             the Ministry of Health by     its role in the sector form being mainly  restructuring implemented     the implementation of
developing the instruments and  a provider to become the regulatory   according to MOH program:       regulatory activities.
functions required to consolidate   agency for the health sector. A large
the process of institutional   number of personnel were transferred    *   At least 500 people    b)  Feasibility study for the
strengthening and its new     to the CCSS for the provision of health     trained on management,      development of new
regulatory role in the health  services. The process, although             public health, health      regulatory agencies to
sector.                        advanced is still incomplete.               economics and              support the MOH in the
epidemiology,              execution of
epidemiological
surveillance, environment,
food and drug testing and
regulation.
b)  20 % of Ministry of Health
units successfully         c)  50 % of Ministry of
implementing Compromisos       Health units successfully
de Gestion and performance     implementing
evaluation systems.            Compromisos de Gesti6n
and performance
evaluation systems.
Regulation and                                     Private provision of health care occurs,  a)  Draft regulation for quality    a)  At least 20 percent of
Coordination                                       but the regulatory framework is weak    assurance in providers,        public and private
and inappropriate. Private sector      including hospitals, clinics,   hospitals accredited by
involvement is increasing and requires  pharmacies, laboratories and   MOH.
a clear regulatory structure to attract  others.
investment and to protect the public.
37



2.  HEALTH SERVICE DELIVERY
Improving Delivery   To improve efficiency, quality  The Law on Deconcentration already    a)  At least 20 hospitals have  a)  At least 70 percent of all
of Health Care     and client/patient focus through    allows 14 centers to assume increasing  been included in the       healthcare providers
Services            the mechanisms approved in the    responsibility and accountability over  Regulation on               incorporated into the
Law on Deconcentration         service provision. The implementation   deconcentration and are        deconcentration process
and extension of the Law will require  operating in accordance with    according to the Law
considerable investment and support.   the Law on Deconcentration,     7852.
Chapters I through 6 of the
Regulations of the Law 7852   b)  At least 10 CCSS
and Addendum to the            hospitals with a
Compromisos de Gesti6n.        professional manager as
CEO and working under
b)  Approval by the CCSS           rules and procedures of
Board of strategies and        Reglamento de
investment plan to increase    Desconcentraci6n.
and to improve ambulatory
solutions as described in the
health sector concept note.
To promote the development of    Presently fewer than 25 percent of all   c)  Ambulatory surgery as 8%  c)  Ambulatory surgery to be
outpatient and home care       surgeries are performed on an           of total hospital discharges.  20% of total hospital
solutions to improve efficiency  ambulatory basis, even though                                        discharges.
and patient focus.            international standards indicate that
this could be increased to 50 percent.
Home care and non-hospital solutions
are extremely limited in the CCSS
delivery network.
The establishment of the EBAIS has    d)  Continuation of the EB3AIS    d)  Continuation of the
led to important improvements in       model by consolidating all      EBAIS model by opening
access and coverage. Systematic        EBAIS opened until 2001,        100 more EBAIS and
reviews of the current status of the   and by opening 50 more          consolidating all EBAIS
initiative are required to consolidate  EBAIS.                         in the territory.
implementation of the model.
Planning,          To improve efficiency in the    The CCSS is the largest purchaser.  a)  25% decrease of time       a)  40% decrease of time
Purchasing and     acquisition and distribution of  Purchases are centralized, there are  between initial bid and         between initial bid and
Acquisition of     pharmaceuticals to health care  large inefficiencies in the purchase and  delivery of pharmaceuticals.  delivery of
Medical Inputs and   providers and ultimately to   delivery of pharmaceuticals.                                           pharmaceuticals.
Pharmaceuticals    patients
b)  30% decrease of total      b)  75% decrease of total
pharmaceutical budget spent    pharnaceutical budget
on warehouse storage costs     spent on warehouse
storage costs.
38



3. FINANCING AND RESOURCFE ALLOCATION
Resource            To develop resource allocation  Specific resource allocation policies  a)  Improve equity by reducing    a)  Improved equity by
Allocation          policies at the macro level that  are required to make the transition to a  the gap between average per  reducing the gap between
promote equity                 more equitable distribution of          capita spending in the         average per capita
resources following a population-based  Brunca Region and the          spending in the Branca
resource allocation model              National Average by 50%.        Region and the National
Average by 50% beyond
b)  Inclusion of case mix          the rates attained in the
(DRGs) in the payment          second evaluation.
mechanism for at least two
National Hospitals.
An information system (SIPO) has   c)  At least 20% of CCSS        b)  At least 40% of CCSS
been developed by IMAS to improve      Health Areas have been          Health Areas have been
targeting of social sector resources,  surveyed and incorporated       surveyed and incorporated
however, limited implementation in     into SIPO.                      into SIPO.
line ministries has been carried out.
Revenue Collection   To improve the efficiency of the    The approval of the "Ley de   a)  4% real annual increase on    a)  4% real annual increase on
CCSS invoicing system and to   Protecci6n al Trabajador" stipulates    revenue collection as a result  revenue collection as a
prepare the CCSS to collect    that the CCSS will act as the central   of successful centralized      result of successful
pension payments for newly     collection agency for the pension       collection system and           centralized collection
approved 2nd and 3rd pillar of the   system. This new legislation requires  evasion reduction.        system and evasion
capitalized pension schemes. The  substantial strengthening of the CCSS                               reduction.
CCSS would function as a key   invoicing system and Financial
agency for the collection of   Information System.
contributions.                                             _
39



Annex 2.B: Proect Actions Matrix
under AS/Activions supported by                 Timefranme        Cstmae          Observations
I. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AN D REGULATIO]N                                     _
Strengthening Organizational
Structure of the CCSS    Consultancies to support    September 2001   US$300,000    Work will focus on
a) CCSS Board approval of   the implementation       to June 2002                    establishing change
Human Resources          strategy for the                                        management strategy and
restructuring plan       restructuring plan in each                              providing the detailed
including at least the  Vice Presidency                                          implementation strategy
(Gerencias)                                             based on the Board
following elements:                                                              approval of the
*  New organizational and                                                            restructuring plan
functional structure with
responsibilities and staff
requirements;           Training of CCSS staff to   June 2002 to  US$800,000
, Huanrsorelno facilitate the          December 2006
*  Human resource plan to   decentralization process
reallocate staff from    and the implementation of
central level administration  streamlined business
to provider network and  processes.
branch offices
*  Timetable for
implementation including
targeted goals
To modernize planning,      Assistance with the      December 2001   US$600,000    The activities in this area
purchasing andprovision of    implementation of       to December                    would build on initial
pharmaceuticals and medical   strategies and instruments   2003                      preparation work that is
supplies                    to streamline procurement                                being carried out under
supplies                   process to increase                                     the PHRD grant. The
transparency,                                           objective of the
competitiveness and                                     preparation studies would
efficiency.                                             be to analyze the supply
chain, evaluate the legal
options that exist to
improve supply chain
Implementation of        January 2002 to   US$150,000    management in the CCSS
strategies to train staff  December 2003                and propose information
working on supply chain                                 system solutions that
issues and to support the                               allow for greater
organizational changes                                  efficiency and quality.
required to improve supply
chain management
Strengthening and           Assistance with          January 2002 to   US$100,000    TA would focus on
consolidation of the Direccion   reformulation of existing    June 2002              designing or refining
de Compra in the CCSS.      CCSS indicators and                                      existing indicators based
Development of outcome-based  development of new                                     practice.
indicators and incorporation of  indicators for provider
these indicators into the   contracts.
management contacts of at least
50 percent of all centers.
40



Annex 2.B: Proect Actions Matrix
Area/Activity          Actions supported by     Timeframe        Estimated         Observations
under PAS                  HSSM II_______                         Cost
CCSS Board approval of the  Assist with implementation  January 2002 to   US$250,000
improved evaluation         of software to manage    January 2003
framework and implementation  purchasing and evaluation
strategy, including: (i)    process.
evaluation process; (ii) timing;
and (iii)                   Implementation,
information systems.        monitoring and evaluation   September 2001   US$300,000
of compliance with      to September
National Health Plan (Plan  2006
de Atenci6n a las
Personas-PASP) and
Health Services Planning
Strategy (PESS)
Training of staff from the    September 2001   US$100,000
Direccion de Compra and   to September
other Gerencias on issues   2006
related to purchasing.
Strengthening sectoral      Support to IMAS and other  September 2001   US$500,000
coordination                social sector institutions    to September
involved in social sector    2006
planning and priority
setting
--   J Jnst E*j4njjjj hj inB Mhist of_He
Restructuring plan for the MH    Consultancies and training   September 2001   US$200,000
executed                    to support the           to September
implementation of       2003
restructuring plan in the
MH
Assist MH with the       September 2001   US$1,000,000
implementation of       to September
management information    2003
systems and other
instruments required to
improve stewardship.
Draft regulation for private  Consultancies to provide    December 2001   US$300,000
provision and insurance,    local and international  to March 2002
submitted to the IBRD        technical assistance for the
including: (i) minimum quality   preparation of draft
standards; (ii) licensing and  regulations on quality
credentialling for staff; (iii) and  assurance and other core
technology assessment and    regulatory issues facing the
certificate of need program.  MH.
41



Annex 2.B: Project Actions Matrix
Area/Activity          Actions supported by     Timeframe        Estimated         Observations
under PAS                  HSSM 11_______                         Cost
11. HEALtT  CARE SERVICE DELUVERY
Implementation of
Decentralization Policy     Assistance to support the    September 2001   US$600,000    Consultancies would be
All ten hospitals included in the  implementation of  to December                    designed in two phases.
Regulation on deconcentration   increasing autonomy in  2006                         The first phase would
operating in accordance with    CCSS hospitals and health                            support the
the Law on Deconcentration  areas. The activities would                              implementation in the 10
and Chapters I through 6 of the  be a twinning process                               hospitals and 4 health area
Regulations of the Law 7852    whereby the support team                              originally approved for
and addendum to the         would be responsible for                                 desconcentracion. The
compromisos de gestion on   implementing all                                         second phase would
Deconcentration             processes: clinical and                                  support implementation in
financial management                                    additional hospitals and
systems, training,                                      health areas.
information systems and
continuous quality
improvement programs
within a number of
predefmed hospitals.
Under the deconcentration   December 2001   US$4,600,000   Subprojects would be
incentive framework of  to                              executed by autonomous
management agreements    December 2006                  hospitals and health areas
(compromisos de gestion),                               to strengthen local
CCSS hospitals will be                                  capacity to purchase and
eligible to submit requests                             to improve timeliness in
for grants to finance                                   the procurement of goods
subprojects previously                                  and services required by
approved by the CCSS                                    the providers.
through the mechanism
described in the
Operational Manual.
Grants would finance a
menu of activities and may
include consulting
services, training, medical
equipment and furniture,
and minor rehabilitation
works (remodeling) of
ambulatory care facilities
required to improve the
quality of service and
facilitate implementation
of the deconcentration
policy. Activities will
include training to support
the hospitals in the
implementation of
pharmaceutical and
medical supply purchasing
as stipulated by the
regulations and Law on
desconcentracion
At least 10 centers functioning   Provide autonomous  January 2002 to   US$625,000
with a professional hospital  hospitals with resources  December 2004
manager with general        required to hire
managerent oversight.       professional managers to
management oversight,       support the implementation
of the decentralization
process.
42



Annex 2.B: P         ect Actions Matrix
Area/Activity          Actions supported by     Timeframe        Estimated         Observations
under PAS                  HSSM II                                Cost
At least 40 percent of all    Consultancy to support   June 2002 to   US$400,000
hospitals (including all national  implementation of a  December 2004
hospitals) carrying out their  pharmacy benefit
own purchasing of           management system that
pharmaceuticals and supplies as  rationale pharmaceutical
stipulated in the regulations to   prescribing and use.
the Law.
Increasing ambulatory care  Consultancy to define    December 2001  US$150,000    Product would identify
solutions                   strategic plan and       to February                     strategic areas based on
To promote the development of  investment strategy to  2002                          the PESS and then
outpatient and home care    increase the percentage of                               propose the needed
.  ..  ambulatory surgeries to 20                       changes in equipment,
solutions to improve efficiency   percent.                                           training and
and patient focus                                                                    infrastructure.
Subproject investments in   June 2002 to  US$4,500,000
facility rehabilitation,  December 2005                 Once the strategic plan
equipment, technology,                                  were identified and
training and supervision                                agreed with providers, the
required to enable CCSS                                 providers would execute
hospitals to increase                                   required investments on a
ambulatory surgery.                                     decentralized basis, via
the submission of
subproiects.
Consolidation of the primary    Participate with national    September 2001   US$75,000
care model (EBAIS)          consultants and MH/CCSS  to March 2002
staff in evaluation of the
modelo de atencion.
Prepare recommendations
for
improvement/consolidation
Strengthening and       January 2002 to   US$1,500,000
expansion of the EBAIS   December 2006
model to uncovered
populations or to improve
the quality of care in
existing areas. Investments
would include equipment,
medical and non-medical
training, and consultancies,
including those necessary
for consultation with
minority groups
(indigenous populations
and those of African
_  descent). __._
HI. FINANCING AND RESOURCE ALLOCATION
Resource Allocation. CCSS    Technical assistance to  January 2002 to   US$70,000
Board approval of allocation  design and implement   June 2002
formula to improve equity   changes in the capitation
formula to allow for risk
adjustment.             _
43



Annex 2.B: Proect Actions Matrix
Area/Activity          Actions supported by      Timeframe        Estimated         Observations
under PAS                   HSSM Ie                                Cost
Consultancy to implement  January 2002 to   US$1.5
the information system to    December 2002   million
improve targeting (SIPO)
of social sector
expenditures, in
coordination with IMAS.
Implementation of SIPO in  January 2003 to   US$1I0
the CCSS, including      December 2004   million
training, equipment and
maintenance of the system,
in coordination with
IMAS.
Assistance to support    January 2002 to   US$125,000
implementation of National  December 2004
Health Accounts
Evidence of improvement in   Consultancy to support   September 2001   US$150,000
resource allocation by the   continued implementation   to December
introduction of case mix     of case mix related      2004
(DRGs) in the reimbursement   payment systems in CCSS
mechanism for at least two   hospitals, including
National Hospitals           continuation of software
licenses required for
management of the DRG
system.
Revenue collections.        Integral solution to      December 2001   US$1,000,000
Equipment purchases for     implement the MIS system  to December
computer hardware and        (SICERE).                2005
telecommunications equipment
approved to ensure
implementation.
IV. EVALUATION AND MONIfORING
Project Management,          Assistance to support the    December 2001   US$500,000
Evaluation and Monitoring    evaluation and monitoring   to December
of the project           2006
Timely execution of      December 2001
project administration  to December       US$2,000,000
functions including      2006
delivery of project inputs:
consultancies, training,
equipment, and travel.
Assistance to support the    January 2002 to   US$250,000
modernization process with December 2006
information, education and
communication campaigns
44



Annex 2C
Overview of Health Sector and Health Sector Reforms in Costa Rica
Costa Rica's 3.9 million inhabitants have enjoyed sustained economic growth, political stability and
progress in the social area over the last decades. It had recovered from the economic crisis of the 1980s
and reduced somewhat the alarming foreign debt, but it still had to watch public spending.
Thanks to the universal social security system, economic development and annual public health spending
in excess of 6 percent of GDP, Costa Rica had achieved remarkable progress in the health of the
population. In the late 1970s, the Govemment had decided to address the problems of duplication of
services, inefficiency, low quality, and large gaps in coverage associated with the existence of parallel
systems, mainly of the Ministry of Health and the CCSS In 1976, the Ministry of Health started to
transfer the hospitals to the CCSS under a mandate to provide universal social security coverage. But
even though coverage improved, there were still wide gaps in access in the rural areas.
In the late 1980s the Government of Costa Rica began to formulate long-term strategies to reform the
health care system: to shift all responsibility for health care provision to the CCSS and to strengthen the
regulatory and policy oversight role of the Ministry of Health. And rising costs (total health care
spending reached nearly 10% of GDP in 1994), declining quality of public services, the lack of
integration of primary care and hospitals, and increasing demands for improved quality and client
attention pressed for action.
In 1994 major structural reforms of the organization, financing and delivery of services were started,
maintaining a clear connection to universal coverage and the public financing role of the Social Security
Institute. At the center of the reforms was the introduction of management contracts (compromises de
gesti6n) between the Social Security Institute and its health facilities. These agreements were supposed to
improve efficiency and service quality, promote management autonomy for hospitals and primary health
care facilities, and enforce compliance with the standards and norms.
As part of the larger reform, in 1994 the MH transferred responsibility for primary care provision to the
CCSS providing the social security institute with the framework to offer a fully integrated package of
care to the entire population. In a population-based model, health areas where created for a population of
about 50,000 each, each with about 10 Basic Health Teams, EBAIS (Equipo Basico de Atencion
Integrada a la Salud), to assume responsibility for providing preventive and curative services. The
standard EBAIS health team, consisting of a physician, a nurse, and a technician, was responsible for a
population group of 2,500 people. The population-based model increased access in rural areas, provided
for stronger integration between primary care providers and hospitals and established performance
indicators related to health outcomes and processes rather than supply.
The reformed health system was based on the principles of universality and solidarity, providing free
healthcare services through the CCSS public hospitals. The Ministry of Health had a mainly regulatory
role in establishing minimum standards, epidemiological surveillance, health policy, and
operationalization of public health regulations and programs. The public C.C.S.S hospital network had
29 hospitals, including 5 national referrals hospitals, regional hospitals, and two levels of rural hospitals,
with a total of about 5,900 beds including acute and chronic beds. The private sector had a very limited
share in the hospital sector, since the CCSS provided universal care, but it gained a small but growing
role at the level of outpatient care and pharmaceuticals. Many physicians worked full time with a civil
service status for the CCSS and had additional activity in their private offices in the afternoons.
45



The system was financed through a payroll tax on all formal and informal sector workers, with a small
subsidy from the central government to cover healthcare expenses for the poor. Total per capita
expenditure was around US$280 per year and nearly 80 percent of all financing was public. Private
health insurance was not permitted.
The changing role of the CCSS
At the core of the changes in the CCSS were the separation of financing and provision and the creation of
a contractual framework. The contractual framework replaced the strong ex ante norms and controls of
the traditional centralized planning with a result-oriented model that focused on outcomes. The basic
development of this model had occurred over nearly twenty years, but the introduction of sector-wide
management contracts accelerated the reformns. Over the past twenty years, the CCSS had build up a
body of knowledge on contracting, experimenting with several models for contracting services from non-
public providers. Starting in 1984, the CCSS introduced a capitation model in the area of Barva, Heredia,
within the catchment area of the HSVP. This experiment ended in a failure: limited results were obtained
at a high cost, as "reconverted" public employees were unable to adapt to private sector conditions and
the CCSS's purchasing capacity was still very weak. A more successful attempt was undertaken in 1989,
when the CCSS again ventured into purchasing services from the private sector.
Over the next several years, the CCSS continued these experiments through a number of co-operatives
formed by ex-CCSS employees, who administered CCSS infrastructure. A capitation model similar to
the first one was used for the provision of primary care services to a pre-defined population. Access and
quality improved dramatically, but the costs remained relatively high.
Based on these experiences the CCSS developed a contracting model for public facilities that was flexible
enough to include co-operatives and private providers. With the know-how obtained from contracting
cooperatives, the CCSS ventured into contracting other services, including diagnostic services (magnetic
resonance imaging), ancillary services such as security, janitorial services and cancer treatment.
In 1997, in the context of the general reform, the CCSS introduced management contracts with 7 social
security hospitals and 5 health areas (comprised of an average of 50,000 people) and several EBAIS
providing primary health care.
The development and implementation of the management contracts required a number of key steps. The
CCSS needed, on the demand side, to clearly identify the health needs of the population and consequently
design strategies to improve the population's health. On the supply side the production capacity and
relative performance needed to be assessed. In order to assume the purchaser role, the CCSS needed to
establish clear and precise objectives and indicators for each health provider. The purchaser-provider
split and the negotiation of the management contracts changed the dynamics of the command and control
system that operated under the historical budgeting and planning model. The established objectives gave
providers and incentives to focus on the elimination of inefficiencies instead of "finger pointing" and
blaming others for poor performance.
The change in the dynamics of the system also served as a catalyst to speed up reforms in other areas.
Actions were in a number of related areas: the implementation of diagnostic related groups (DRGs) to
improve clinical management, new resource allocation mechanisms, increased emphasis on quality, and
corporate restructuring at both central and local levels. Throughout the process, training and retraining
played a fundamental role. In order to provide health services managers with the required skills, over 700
staff were trained in short and long-term management courses, and countless other clinical and non-
clinical staff were enrolled in diverse areas of continuous education. Topics were: family medicine and
46



the integrated primary health care model public health training, health management, and evaluation of
health services. A Master's program in health economics had even been created.
In order to consolidate the reforms it was necessary to implement a new purchasing department. The vice
presidencies of the CCSS quickly realized that the purchasing department would hold considerable power
in the new structure, and infighting broke out among them. In 1998, after several months of negotiations,
a new Purchasing Department, DC (Direcci6n de Compra), was created within the administrative vice-
presidency. It had the explicit mission of developing the purchasing function and the instruments
required for entering into contractual arrangements with public and private providers serving the covered
population. Additionally, the role of the Vice - Presidencies of the CCSS began to change to reflect the
decentralized structure.
NOTE: Material in this annex from James Cercone and Magda Rosenmoller (2000), "Costa Rica: A new
Hospital for Heredia, a public partnership for health care", case study prepared for the conference
"Challenges in Health Reform: Reaching the Poor, San Jose, Costa Rica, May 2000."
47



TABLE 1
Per Capita Resource Allocation for Primary Care by Health Region and Area
Colones and Dollars, 2001
Colones       Dollars     Region's
Per Capita   Per Capita
NORTH CENTRAL REGION                                                    43
Alajuela Norte                             23,563          72
Alajuela Oeste                              7,388          23
Alajuela Sur                                4,929          15
Atenas                                     18,538          57
Barva                                      22,629          69
Belen Flores                               21,615          66
Coronado                                   22,536          69
Goicochea 1                                 9,862          30
Goicochea 2                                23,309          71
Grecia                                      3,100           9
Heredia Cubujugui                           6,105          19
Heredia Virilla                             5,513          17
Moravia                                    14,534          45
Naranjo                                    14,374          44
Palmares                                   13,424          41
Poas                                       15,453          47
San Isidro                                  5,028          15
San Rafael Heredia                         11,939          37
San Ramon                                   4,096          13
Santa Barbara                              11,971          37
Sto Domingo                                14,946          46
Coopesain                                  20,236          62
TibAs Uruca Merced                         19,424          59
Valverde Vega                              18,516          57
Zarcero                                    18,413          56
SOUTH CENTRAL REGION                                                    41
Acosta                                     20,908          64
Alajuelita                                  7,639          23
Aserri                                     16,336          50
Cartago                                     1,787           5
Curridabat                                  9,589          29
Desamparados ly2                           20,720          63
Desamparados 3                             10,524          32
El Guarco                                  13,196          40
Escazui                                     3,744           11
Hatillo                                    27,821           85
La Uni6n                                    6,180           19
Los Santos                                 18,492          57
Mata Redonda Hospital                      38,236         117
Mora                                        5,513           17
48



Colones       Dollars     Region's
Per Capita    Per Capita   Average
Oreamuno Pacayas                           15,646           48
Paraiso                                    10,019           31
Pavas                                      21,387           65
Puriscal                                    10,661          33
Santa Ana                                  11,721           36
Turrialba Jimenez                           3,175           1 0
Zapote S.Fco Catedral                       15,344          47
Corralillo La Sierra                        3,181           1 0
NORTH HUETAR REGION                                                      48
Aguas Zarcas                               25,549           78
Ciudad Quesada                              8,654           26
Fortuna - Monterrey                        28,529           87
Pital                                       18,817          58
Florencia                                   6,839           21
Guatuso                                     10,061          3 1
Los Chiles                     _            9,197           28
Puerto Viejo                               20,120           62
Santa Rosa                                 12,756           39
CHOROTEGA REGION                                                         60
Abangares                                  31,425           96
Colorado                                    17,243          53
Bagaces                                    23,134           71
Cafnas                                      19,847          61
Carrillo                                    16,200          50
Hojancha                                   23,808           73
Nandayure                                  27,007           83
La Cruz                                    24,766           76
Nicoya                                       3,134          1_0
Santa Cruz                                  17,949          55
Tilaran                                    29,548           90
Upala                                        1,324           4
CENTRAL PACIFIC REGION                                                   62
Barranca                                    12,016          37
Chacarita                                   13,297          41
Montes de Oro                               10,468          3
Esparza                                     11,873          36
Jicaral Paquera C6bano                     22,914           70
Orotina San Mateo Jac6                     24,132           74
Parrita Quepos                              15,323          47
Puntarenas Centro                          52,430          161
49



Colones       Dollars     Region's
Per Capita    Per Capita   Average
HUETAR ATLANTIC REGION                                                  69
Guacimo                                    31,411          96
Horguetas                                  24,315          74
Valle de la Estrella                       14,829          45
Cariari - Ticaban                          33,896         104
Lim6n                                      60,154         184
Matina                                      5,245          16
GuApiles                                   11,760          36
Siguirres                                   9,725          30
Talamanca                                  10,893          33
BRUNCA REGION                                                           27
Buenos Aires                               22,556          69
Corredores                                 10,413          32
Coto Brus                                   2,087           6
Golfito                                     3,220          10
Osa                                        13,629          42
Perez Zeled6n                               1,202           4
National Average                                           48
50



Annex 2D
Social Assessment
Objectives. The social assessment was organized in two phases. Given that the proposed project, to a
large extent, will expand and enhance actions already supported by a previous Bank project, the first
phase has focused on an institutional analysis and on a set of beneficiary assessments related to that
project. Its aim is to evaluate the main instruments used by the health reform from the perspective of its
key stakeholders, suggesting reinforcements, adaptations and changes. The set of beneficiary assessments
provides information about (a) how the public evaluates health services in general; (b) how efficient
health services provided by cooperatives are; and (c) how community members evaluate community
involvement in the delivery of health services.
The second phase will take place at the outset of the project's implementation. It will use participatory
methods to examine how the health reform has affected disadvantaged and minority groups and whether it
is adequately tailored to respond to their specific needs. If needed, it will suggest how to address these
groups with well defined actions. The second phase has been adequately budgeted and is part of the set of
performance indicators of the project. This annex refers to key results of the first phase.
Organization of the Health Sector. The health sector in Costa Rica includes as its main institutions the
Ministerio de Salud, Acueductos y Alcantarillados; Municipalities, the University of Costa Rica, the
Instituto Nacional de Seguros, and the Caja Costarricense de Seguro Social (CCSS). During the last
years, the Ministry of Health has assumed the direction and coordination of the system. The Ministry
holds the responsibility for the planning of the system and for surveillance activities; regulation, control
and evaluation; and research and technological development. The CCSS is responsible for all treatment,
prevention and promotion activities.
The CCSS administers two programs: the Pension System and the Health Insurance System. Both are
financed by individual, employer and government contributions. The health insurance has the following
characteristics in Costa Rica:
> It is universal (covering all residents);
>  It is equitable(it does not include any type of discrimination);
> It is subsidized (the Government is responsible that all health needs are covered);
>  It is mandatory to all employees (all must be affiliated);
>  It is voluntary to non-employees.
Health insurance coverage is divided into three levels. The first encompasses the supply of basic and
comprehensive health services, provided through Equipos Basicos de Atenci6n Integral de Salud
(EBAIS). There are now 652 EBAIS organized. The second encompasses basic hospital interventions
and some medical sub-specialties according to the epidemiological profile of the population. Finally, the
third encompasses the provision of more specialized services, requiring more advanced technologies. The
main challenge faced by the Government and by the proposed project is how to respond efficiently, both
financially and in terms of quality, to a system with a broad scope and an universal coverage. Three tools
are important to this aim: the EBAIS model, which allowed the expansion of the system towards rural
51



areas; the cooperative management experience, which is taking place in urban areas and includes
involvement of the private sector; and community involvement throughout the country.
Quality of the System. The health system in Costa Rica is considered by many the best in the region, in
line with OECD countries, and with health indicators improving during the last decade. Not only does it
have universal coverage and provides high quality services but in 1996, through the Ley de Igualdad de
Oportunidades para las Personas con Descapacidad (Law Of Equal Opportunities for the Disabled) a set
or rights for the disables was enacted. For the social assessment purposes, the quality of the health
system is measured by how well beneficiaries evaluate: (a) the waiting period to obtain attention; (b) the
respectfulness of care; (c) the quality of the services provided; and (d) the cleanliness of the health
facilities used. To answer these questions, a survey was conducted covering 1,789 randomly sampled
beneficiaries in 296 "areas de salud"; 223 "clinicas"and 1,270 hospitals. Sixty-two percent of the
interviewed were women, because women tend to demand health services during the time the survey was
conducted (between 7AM and 4PM).
Overall, users evaluate the system positively in all the four dimensions as follows:
> Waiting time. Although 19% of users consider the waiting time to have an appointment scheduled as
excessive, about 60% indicate that their experience is positive: 43% evaluate the waiting time as
reasonable, whereas 16% mention that the wait was shorter than they hoped for. Eighty eight percent
of beneficiaries indicate that the waiting time to have an appointment scheduled is one day or even
less, whereas 60% answer that the time in the waiting room is reasonable or shorter than expected.
The same proportion - 60%- consider that the time waiting in a pharmacy for a prescribed
medication is reasonable or shorter than expected. Finally, 73% consider that the time to wait for
laboratory exams is either reasonable or shorter than expected and 68% agree with the same
evaluation regarding the time to wait for laboratory results.
u Evaluation of the health staff and facilities. Seventy-nine percent of users perceive as good or
excellent their relationship with the receptionists and secretaries in the health facilities they visit; and
89% share the same evaluation regarding doctors, with about 44.4% considering it excellent. Only
1.5% rate their treatment by doctors as bad. Finally, 92% consider health facilities to be clean.
> Evaluation of doctors and pharnacies. Usually, patients expect to be physically examined by the
doctor with whom an appointment has been scheduled. Whether this exam takes place is an
important element of how doctors are evaluated. Patients demonstrate a high degree of appreciation
for how they are attended by doctors, with 87% saying they are happy with the medical attention. For
four fifths of respondents, physical evaluation took place. The same proportion of users report that in
their experience, doctors explain their health status well.  In 83% of the cases, the doctors'
explanations were well understood; in 85% of the answers provided, the medicines recommended
were obtained.
Civic engagement. Two important mechanisms are in place to guarantee civic participation in the health
system - by communities and by private individuals. The most important instrument to guarantee
community participation are the Juntas de Salud (juntas), created in the second article of the Law 7852
(Ley de Desconcentracion de Clinicas y Hospitales de la Caja Costarricense del Seguro Social), enacted
November 30, 1998. The most important instrument to involve private individuals in the health system
are health cooperatives.
Community participation. Creation of the Juntas was a response to the perceived need to make the system
more participatory, and at the same time more responsive. Juntas were then defined as auxiliary entities
to enhance the use of citizenship rights by making citizens co-participants of the implementation,
monitoring and definition of the priorities of the CCSS.
52



An evaluation conducted in 90 Juntas as part of the project preparation demonstrates some trends to
which the current project should pay attention.
>  In four fifths of the Juntas, meetings are regularly undertaken and members interviewed relate an
adequate degree of interest in the issues discussed.
> In about half the cases, juntas indicate that meetings, although scheduled, were suspended by lack of
an adequate quorum - which means that less than four people attended.
>  About the same proportion mention that members needed to be substituted because of lack of
participation. This rotation has had a negative impact for following-up of decisions.
> Reasons mentioned for absenteeism are logistics (lack of transport, distance, lack of time). They
may also be related to their internal functioning, such as conflicts among members, difficulties in
consensus building, bad relationship with the health facility's administrators, etc.
>  Fifty percent indicate their Juntas do not participate in capacity building activities.
>  About half of the Juntas indicate they do not influence how facilities are run.
Cooperatives. There are several types of cooperatives, including those called "autogesti6n," organized
by workers for the production of goods or services. Since the late 1980s, expecting to reduce the costs of
the system, the CCSS began a partnership with cooperatives for the delivery of basic health care. This
partnership takes the shape of a contract of services, whose sum is globally defined before signature. In
several aspects, this experience has been successful, opening the opportunity for a better integration
between the private and the public sector in the delivery of health services. In some cases, the CCSS
facilitates the installation of equipment and medical instruments. In all the cases, it sells materials and
medicines for the same price it has bought internally or imported, or produced through its own
laboratories. An evaluation of the performance of cooperatives in comparison with services directly
provided by the CCSS shows that (a) between 1993 and 1998, the unit cost decreased 25 percent in
cooperatives, while increasing 26 percent in clinics maintained by the Caja; and (b) on average, in 1997,
the number of appointments per user was three times greater in cooperatives (three) than in a traditional
clinics (one), indicating a greater coverage by cooperatives.
Conclusions and recommendations. With a system that provides the best indicators in the region and a
high degree of satisfaction among users, two actions are recommended. The first should related to the
system  management and financing; the second, to its fairness and fine-tuning.  Private sector
involvement, through both cooperatives and juntas, are safe mechanisms that should be strengthened.
Additionally, members should be given the opportunity for training, and health administrators should also
understand the value that community-based organizations can bring to their work. The project should
evaluate how it is reaching disadvantaged and minority groups proposing culturally appropriate actions
and programs.
53



Annex 2E: Environmental Assessment
COSTA RICA: Health Sector Strengthening and Modernization II Project
Environmental Issues: A report (attached below) was prepared by the Environmental Health Unit of
PAHO covering the following: (1) an analysis of the existing legislation regarding medical waste
management in Costa Rica; (2) an analysis of the actual procedures used in Costa Rica for medical waste
management and control; (3) an analysis of the activities done and under implementation by the CCSS,
the Ministry of Health and/or other national or international agencies regarding this subject; (4)
conclusions and recommendations in each of these areas.
Summary: The report concludes that there is an important stock of legislation regarding medical waste
management and control in Costa Rica. The CCSS and the Ministry of Health have been active partners
in transforming Costa Rica into the pioneer country on medical waste management regulations and
procedures in the Central American Region. Costa Rica belongs to the Panamerican Network for Waste
Management, REPAMAR, which is now in its third phase, developing six projects in this area.
REPAMAR-Costa Rica is the leader of the project on "Hospital Waste Management, Chemical and
Pharmaceutical Waste". The CCSS has a unit dedicated to the implementation of the legislation and
special programs, while the Ministry of Health is the regulator of environmental health issues. Under its
programs he CCSS has set goals such as: i) the reduction of hospital waste production by 16 percent in
five years; and, ii) the reduction in the production of hospital waste per bed from 6.5 kg/day to 2.5 kg./day
by the year 2003. In reality, the program has been so successful that the CCSS reached its five year goal
in one year. This goal of reducing 16 percent hospital waste production annually is being kept thereafter.
The CCSS works under strict environmental regulations which require it to carry out an environmental
assessment for any physical works over 150 square meters. Training programs for hospital and primary
care staff have been under way for several years, and the CCSS has selected the use of "autoclaves" to
reduce contamination potential of waste at hospitals and some EBAIS. Both PAHO and the GTZ have
been supporting the country's effort on improving medical waste management and control. At present,
PAHO works closely with the Ministry of Health on the regulatory aspects and with the appropriate unit
at the CCSS for the implementation of procedures at the national level.
The report suggests that the CCSS continue with the strategy it has developed and does not recommend
the use of "autoclaves" in all primary health care facilities. By the same token, it suggests strengthening
the existing campaigns in national and regional hospitals always under a cost benefit rationale. On the
other hand, it recommends that each health establishment plans its budget in such a way that it will be
able to provide the necessary inputs for waste management and control. This is an issue that will be
facilitated through the "deconcentration" process under implementation in the CCSS and supported by the
proposed project.
The assessment concluded that Costa Rica is one of the countries that has produced a detailed a stock of
regulations in this area, that has progressed in the implementation of the procedures, has created the
appropriate institutional arrangements for regulation, design, implementation and evaluation, and has
worked with other agencies in improving the existing system. Discussions with the Executive Presidency
of the CCSS regarding whether it would be appropriate to introduce environmental actions in the
proposed project given what the environmental evaluation report has found, concluded that an
institutional health reform project of this nature would not be the most appropriate instrument to
strengthen medical waste management in CCSS hospitals and primary care network, since those activities
are addressed in a unique manner through the specialized unit and the strategy under implementation.
Trying to do too many things at the same time with the same instrument would not be beneficial for the
reform objectives of the project. Both CCSS officials and the Bank team concluded that in this case and
given the particular circumstances found in the report, the proposed was not the appropriate instrument to
54



handle the strengthening of environmental regulation and implementation. Both the CCSS and the
Ministry of Health feel confident that they are progressing and that they do have the support of other
agencies to deal with these issues. To try from another angle would jeopardize the results of the actions
proposed by the reform -which no other agency would be supporting, and might delay the
implementation of ongoing environmental health programs that do count with the support of other
agencies.
55



ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
PANAMERICAN HEALTH ORGANIZATION
Regional Bureau of the
WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
Calle 16, Av. 6 y 8              P.O. Box: 3745-1000        Telephone: (506) 258.58.10
Edificio Ministerio de Salud         e-mail@cor.ops-oms.org  Fax:    (506) 258.58.30
San Jose, Costa Rica
(English translation)
(REFERENCE: request for support to the World Bank).
Item 1. Review of existing legislation on hospital waste management:
With regard to hospital waste management, the legislation which directly covers this matter and permits
institutions to operate, includes:
General Health Law
(No. 5393 dated October 30, 1973. Gazette No. 22 dated November 24, 1973. LATEST REFORMS:
Law No. 7600 dated May 2, 1996, Gazette No. 102 dated May 29, 1996; Law No. 5789 dated September
1, 1975, Gazette No. 178 dated September 20, 1975; Law No. 6430 dated May 15, 1980; Law No. 7093
dated April 22, 1988)
Article 36. The burial or incineration of human cadavers is prohibited without a death certificate issued
on official forms and in accordance with pertinent regulatory provisions.
Article 278. All solid waste arising from current personal or family activities, or from the community and
agricultural, livestock, industrial or commercial operations, must be collected, accumulated, utilized as
needed, and subject to treatment or disposed of by those responsible, in order to avoid or decrease as
much as possible air, soil and water pollution.
Article 279. It is prohibited for any individual or firm to dump or accumulate solid waste in places
unauthorized for such purpose, to use improper means for its transportation and accumulation, and to
proceed to utilize, treat or dispose of solid waste by means of systems not approved by the Ministry.
Article 280. The trash collection, hauling and disposal service, as well the cleaning of pipes, ditches,
sewers, roads and public places, shall be handled by municipalities which may do so by administration or
through contracts with firrns or individuals, to be issued in accordance with legal formalities and requiring
the Ministry's approval before becoming valid. All persons are obliged to use this public service and to
contribute economically to its financing in accordance with pertinent legal and regulatory provisions.
Article 281. Agricultural, industrial and commercial firms should have a system for separation and
collection, accumulation and final disposal of solid waste arising from their operations, approved by the
Ministry when , due to the nature or quantity of this waste, the use of the public system is not sanitarily
acceptable or when such public system does not exist in the locality.
Article 282. Owners of unoccupied lands in urban areas are obliged to keep them enclosed and in good,
hygienic conditions.
They shall also be obliged to perform the practices or work within the deadline ordered by the health
authority, when such lands constitute a focus of environmental contamination.
56



Article 283. The recovery of solid waste and residues in places not approved by the health authority for
such purposes is prohibited. Individuals and firms which deal with the recovery, utilization, marketing or
industrialization of such materials must request prior permission from the health authority. Said authority
may grant such permission when it is proven that the work of selecting, collecting and utilizing waste and
residues does not imply a hazard of environmental contamination or risks to the health of persons who
work in these tasks or of third-parties.
Article 284. The authorization mentioned in the previous article shall be in effect for one year and may
be canceled at any time when the pernit holder does not comply with pertinent regulatory provisions or
does not carry out the special practices and works required by the health authority as requisites for
safeguarding people's health or the sanitation of the operation.
Article 329. The burial and cremation of cadavers and human remains may only be performed in
cemeteries and crematoriums, authorized by the health administration and with prior compliance with all
regulatory requirements.
Organic Law of the Environment
(No. 7554 dated October 4, 1996, Gazette No. 215 dated November 13, 1995. LATEST REFORMS:
Law No. 7575 Statement to Gazette No. 72 dated April 16, 1996).
Article 60. Prevention and control of contamination
To prevent and control environmental contamination, the State, municipalities and other public
institutions shall assign priority, among other things, to the establishment and operation of proper services
in areas fundamental for environmental health, such as:
a) Water supply for human consumption.
b) Sanitary disposal of excreta, sewage and rainwater.
c) Waste collection and management.
d) Air pollution control.
e) Sound pollution control.
t) Control of chemical and radioactive substances.
These services shall be provided in the manner determined by specific laws and regulations, seeking the
participation of the population and its organizations.
Article 68. Prevention of soil contamination
It is the obligation of individuals and of public or private firms to avoid soil contamination caused by the
inadequate accumulation, storage, collection, transportation or final disposal of toxic or hazardous waste
and substances of any nature.
Article 69. Disposal of contaminated residues
In soil management and use, the disposal of residues that constitute a source of contamination must be
controlled.  Productive activities shall avoid discharges, dumping or infiltration of contaminating
substances or materials in the soil.
When the disposal of contaminants cannot be avoided, the necessary corrective measures must be
observed as determined by the relevant authority. When appropriate, the State, municipalities and the
57



private enterprise shall promote the recovery and proper treatment of waste to obtain other products or by-
products.
General Hospital Regulation
(Decree No. 2466 dated 6/4/197 1)
For the management of hospital waste, the guidelines established in the General Hospital Regulation
should be followed. Under these guidelines, medical assistance establishments separate special waste
from ordinary waste.
Thus, special waste is classified as:
* Pathogens and human remains in small amounts
* Sharp and pointed objects
* Human remains
* Radioactive materials
* Other hazardous waste.
Classification is made at the time and in the same place where waste is generated. The manner in which
the above-mentioned waste should be treated is also regulated.
Pathogens, as well as human remains and bodily fluids of small entities shall be deposited in polyethylene
bags with a thickness of between 0.12 and 0.15 mm and a capacity of 110 to 120 cm3, waterproof and
resistant to static load, which do not generate toxic emissions by combustion. Identified by their red
color, they shall exhibit the international symbol of infectious substances.
Pointed and sharp-edged waste shall be deposited in rigid, waterproof containers that cannot be internally
or externally perforated. Their infectious content shall be identified, except if they are repackaged in the
bags mentioned in the previous paragraph.
Bodily fluids of larger entities shall be treated in the place of origin in order to ensure that they are
harmless prior to their disposal.
Another aspect considered is in-house collection of waste. In this regard, regulations state that:
*  Single-use containers, duly sealed to avoid spills or exposure of waste, shall be collected every
two hours, except when the potential risk calls for a different frequency.
*  In-house collection shall be performed in a streamlined, quick and hygienic manner to ensure that
the operations are harmless to patients, visitors and staff.
*  The staff who perform collection tasks should be properly trained, immunized and provided with
waterproof, resistant gloves and apron.
*  In-house transport shall be performed through the use of smooth-walled, non-porous container
carts which, due to their design, are easy to clean and avoid dropping their loads during transfer.
They shall be identified by their red color, and no products other than hospital waste may be
transported in them.
* Under no circumstances shall ducts or standpipes be used for in-house transfer of special waste.
* Special waste shall be transferred directly from the area of origin to temporary storage, with no
further intermediary operations.
Finally, the temporary storage of waste is regulated.
58



The temporary storage room shall meet the conditions for hospital waste storage stated in the Waste
Management Regulation. In any case, it shall have running water and drainage for proper cleaning, a
floor with no more than a 5% slope, and easy access from the outside for loading and unloading
operations.
Waste shall not remain in storage for over seventy-two hours.
Regulation on Cremation of Cadavers
(Decree No. 17286-S of 11/12/1986)
Article 2: The cremation of cadavers and human remains may only be performed in crematoriums duly
authorized by the Ministry, following compliance with existing regulatory requirements.
Article 4. The Ministry's Departments of Disease Surveillance and Sanitary Engineering shall be
responsible for standardizing, regulating, controlling and evaluating the organization and functioning of
all of the country's crematoriums.
Article 21. In order to begin operating, all crematories which are installed for the purpose of cremating
cadavers in a cemetery must present construction plans and documentation on the cremation equipment,
the processor and the system to prevent any type of contamination. These documents must be presented
to the Ministry's Department of Sanitary Engineering, which shall give its authorization for this activity,
subject to a study and eye-witness inspection thereof.
Article 23. The removal of residue from crematory ovens, on the outside, must follow the standards
issued by the Ministry for atmospheric emissions, in order not to produce environmental pollution.
Moreover, these ovens must be handled by qualified staff and receive proper maintenance that allows
them to be used.
Article 24. Crematories may be used to reduce to ashes: cadavers, organic remains from hospitals,
autopsy rooms and pathologic anatomy laboratories and remains that have been exhumed in other
cemeteries.
Decree No. 28.828-S.  General Regulation for the Certification of Health and Related
Establishments
Waste Management Regulation
(Executive Decree No. 19049-S dated July 7, 1989)
On final disposal of waste:
Users' Responsibility
Article 11. Users of the ordinary waste management service shall have the following obligations with
regard to storage:
*  Store in a sanitary manner all trash generated, as specified by this regulation.
*  Do not deposit liquid substances, excreta, or trash such as that contemplated for the special
service, in containers used for ordinary trash collection.
*  Place containers in the collection place, in accordance with the schedule established by the trash
collection agency.
59



*  Other provisions established by this regulation which are the users' responsibility.
Article 12. Returnable containers for trash storage under ordinary service shall have the following
features, among others:
*  Weight and construction which facilitate handling during collection.
*  They shall be constructed of waterproof material, easy to clean, with protection against corrosion,
such as plastic or metal.
*  They shall have well-fitting lids that do not hinder the emptying process during collection.
*  They shall be constructed in such a way that, if closed or covered, they will not let in water,
insects, rodents, nor allow liquids to escape through their walls or bottoms.
* Rounded edges and corners, larger in the upper part, to facilitate emptying.
*  Capacity in accordance with the trash company's stipulations.
Article 13. The disposable containers used for trash storage in ordinary service shall be bags of plastic
material or of similar characteristics and should have at least the following features:
*  They should be able to withstand the pressure placed by the trash contained within them and by
handling.
*  Their capacity should be in accordance with stipulations by the agency that provides trash
service.
*  Opaque color.
*  They should be closeable by means of a fixed tying device or by means of a knot.
Regulation on Sanitary Landfills
(Executive Decree No. 27378-S, Official Gazette No 206 dated October 23, 1998)
Definitions:
Article 1. For the purposes of the present regulation, the following definitions are used:
...c) Special waste: includes solids, gases, fluid and thick liquids held in containers which, due to their
chemical reactivity, toxic, explosive, corrosive, radioactive or other characteristic, or their quantity, cause
damage to health or the environment.
Such waste needs special management and vigilance, from its generation to its final disposal. According
to its type and origin, it is grouped as follows:
health establishments: this requires special handling within and outside the health institution where it is
generated.  It comes from  isolation areas for patients with infectious or contagious diseases,
microbiological laboratories, surgery, childbirth, hemodialysis and other services. It also includes human
organic remains from the areas of surgery, childbirth, morgue and pathologic anatomy, as well as remains
of animals used for diagnostic or experimental testing.
On final disposal of waste:
Article 15: Infectious and contagious waste may be disposed of in sanitary landfills after treatment
through incineration or sterilization. In special situations, this type of waste may be accepted without
treatment, in specially equipped cells, in which case the authorization for location of the storage and for
procedures to carry it out, shall be granted by the Bureau of Human Environmental Protection of the
Ministry of Health.
60



Article 16. Industrial waste may be dumped in sanitary landfills after treatment or neutralization to make
it harmless. If, after treatment or neutralization, industrial waste is not able to be assimilated with
ordinary or harmless waste, it should be disposed of in special cells designed for this type of waste.
The above requires authorization by the Bureau of Human Environmental Protection of the Ministry of
Health, to locate the storage and for procedures to carry it out.
Item 2. Analysis of procedures existing in Costa Rica's Hospitals and Health Centers with regard
to the handling, collection, transportation and final disposal of waste:
With regard to hospital waste, the Ministry of Health of Costa Rica acts as the regulatory agency and
authority which carries out surveillance efforts through its Surveillance Program, carried out by the
Bureau of Human Environmental Protection which inspects and controls solid, liquid and gaseous waste
from all public and/or private health establishments, among other duties.
The procedures regarding the handling, collection, transportation and final disposal of waste from health
establishments are the latter's responsibility, whether they are public or private. The CCSS, through its
Department of Basic Sanitation, is generating regulations and training the staff of hospitals, clinics and
EBAIS in the application of these procedures.
In recent years the Caja has been executing a program for the reduction of hazardous waste in all the
establishments for which it is responsible. The program set a target for a 2% annual decrease, to achieve
in 5 years the target of a 16% reduction in hazardous waste. After an evaluation from 1999 to 2000, it
was found that the target had been reached in only one year. This sample considered decentralized,
regional and peripheral hospitals. The CCSS is currently working to maintain this indicator.
CCSS statistics for 1999 showed a distribution of hospital waste with the following structure:
Waste    Production    in  1999               2000
Hospitals
Food                        30%               23%
Common                      32%               54%
Special                     11%               8%
Hazardous                   27%               15%
Another target to be achieved deals with reducing the current average production of 6.5 kg/bed/day to 2.5
kg/bed/day, for which a minimization and recycling program must be executed.
The application of the Regulation for Hazardous Waste Management in Health Establishments calls for
the segregation of waste. Hazardous (infectious, and infectious sharp/pointed) waste is deposited in
labeled red bags. For the Integrated Hospital Solid Waste Plan for 2001, the CCSS has planned for all
biohazardous waste to be sterilized before it leaves health establishments, for which autoclaves are being
acquired.
61



Item 3. Description of actions being considered by the Ministry of Health, CCSS and other
agencies to improve hospital waste management:
The Ministry of Health is executing surveillance and control efforts dealing with solid, liquid and gaseous
waste from all public and/or private health establishments. In addition, following the provisions of the
General Regulation for the Certification of Health and Related Establishments (Decree No. 28.828-S), the
Bureau of Human Environmental Protection is in charge of issuing a record of compliance with sanitary
and environmental requirements by each health and related establishment that requests certification.
Certification, following issuance of this record, is issued the Ministry's Bureau of Health Services.
During this certification process, the faculties of medicine of the country's different universities are also
being included.
The Ministry currently coordinates with the inter-institutional commission for the preparation of the
regulation on "REQUIREMENTS FOR THE SEPARATION, PACKAGING, STORAGE,
COLLECTION, TRANSPORTATION, TREATMENT AND FINAL DISPOSAL OF BIOLOGICAL
AND INFECTIOUS HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATED IN ESTABLISHMENTS THAT PROVIDE
MEDICAL CARE." The regulation will be enacted during the present six-month period.
Currently, the Pan-American Network of Environmental Management of Waste, in its third phase of
work, is carrying out six regional projects dealing with Hazardous Waste. REPAMAR Costa Rica is
heading the "Management of Hospital, Anatomical-Pathologic, Chemical and Pharmaceutical Waste"
Project. REPAMAR Costa Rica is comprised of various institutions working in the area of Hazardous
Waste, Ministries, CCSS, Research and Information Management Centers of various universities, among
others. This commission is coordinated by the Ministry of Health.
With regard to the Hospital Waste Management project, actions are being carried out under the
established timetable, with the participation of the working group organized by the Costa Rican Social
Security Fund which is acting as technical counterpart. The activities carried out are being disseminated
through REPAMAR's SERVICE LIST, on the Intemet, to all members and other professionals interested
in this matter, in order to agree on products. The intention is to support the official management and offer
inputs to solve problems in hospital waste management in Costa Rica and the Network's member
countries.
Project products include:
*  Regulation for Proper Handling of Anatomical-Pathologic Waste
*  Instruments for applying and evaluating the regulation
*  Collection of technical documents on this subject (Anthology)
*  Training Program
*  Training Video
The CCSS group is working on the preparation of forms to evaluate the presence of chemical substances
in hospitals, storage procedures, handling and final disposal of these substances, and training modules.
The last component of the project deals with pharmaceutical waste.
Item 4. Recommendations and actions to consider with regard to hospital waste management:
In October 1999 PAHO/WHO supported the CCSS with a one-week consultancy to review various issues
and provide technical assistance for the preparation of a proposal for solid waste treatment, together with
the Caja's ad hoc commission, mainly comprised of staff of the Caja's Basic Sanitation Program, now
defined at the Caja's Basic Sanitation Department, under the Technical Bureau.
62



The main recommendations emanating from this technical assistance and results that are being achieved
from their application by the CCSS may be summarized as follows:
1. Together with the ad hoc commission, the draft proposal for Integrated Management of Solid Waste
in CCSS Health Care Units was prepared, with emphasis on the treatment and disposal of hazardous
waste. Results were typified and more adequate processes for treatment and final disposal were
indicated. The Caja's Basic Sanitation Program, based upon this proposal, generated a working
document which is managed by the EBAIS, treating waste with autoclaves for sterilization and later
disposal as ordinary waste. The smaller EBAIS units which lack an autoclave send their waste to
larger EBAIS which do have them.
2. This proposal also included general recommendations on hospital waste management, with emphasis
in the minimization of residue, and suggested the purchase of certain types of treatment services, also
recommending the strengthening of the Basic Institutional Sanitation program and thus of the ad hoc
commission. The Caja's Basic Sanitation Program has been strengthened by being designated the
Caja's Basic Sanitation Department (SB), under the Technical Bureau, and comprised of 4 areas:
Training, Technical, Intra-Hospital Infections, and Auditing.
3. Moreover, the proposal suggested the preparation of a feasibility study with the hiring of experts to
carry out an evaluation of technology options for the treatment and disposal of solid waste generated
in CCSS Health Units. Draft terms of reference (basic guidelines) were prepared. The proposed
studies, in the understanding of the SB Department and CCSS authorities, imply the use of very
costly technologies. The biggest problem being dealt with is the final treatment of waste due to the
lack of autoclaves in many health units. Currently, CCSS is handling regulations, in line with the
national basic sanitation policy in all hospitals, clinics and EBAIS throughout the country for
Hazardous Waste Management in Health Establishments, Use of Antiseptics and Disinfectants, and
Handling of Anatomical-Pathologic Waste. In some of the country's EBAIS, it has established a
waste recycling program, especially for waste stemming from administrative activities. Some EBAIS
have created their own collection centers. The training program promoted by the SB Department is
moving along vertically.
4. The recommendations emanating from the technical assistance regarding equipment installed at
Mexico Hospital (microwaves with grinding) suggested that an assessment be made of the
disinfection treatment provided. It was recommended that the team representative in Costa Rica
provide information from the manufacturer on the analysis of samples performed on equipment that is
in operation. CCSS has a contract with the CELEC of the University of Costa Rica to evaluate the
efficacy of treatment. The cultures generated confirm that the equipment is operating well and
efficiently. Temperature and pressure controls are also performed to ensure the process.
New recommendations and actions to be strenethened by the CCSS:
I. The CCSS has adopted the use of autoclaves for sterilization as a technique for controlling hazardous
waste (including crushing in large hospitals), which is a process now under implementation. We
would recommend to continue with the strengthening of the procedures for purchasing and installing
autoclave equipment where appropriate, to encourage on-site treatment of hazardous waste;
2. In many EBAIS, the installation of autoclaves may not be the most appropriate solution, due to the
low volume of waste that is generated. After waste is properly treated in the EBAIS, it is regularly
transported to the Health Area, in which the autoclave is located. For those distant places where
transportation implies risks or where the quantities of waste generated are small, we suggest the
practice of burying waste in safety pits built under current guidelines and described in the
PAHO/WHO manual for hospital waste management; likewise, in those localities where the
municipal solid waste collection service does not consider the use of a sanitary landfill for final
disposal of this waste but rather uses open dumps, the use of safety pits for on-site disposal of
63



hazardous waste could be considered;
3. To ensure financial resources, each establishment should separate budget items in order to ensure the
ongoing provision of inputs for hazardous waste management;
4. The CCSS should strengthen waste minimization and recycling campaigns, especially in national and
regional hospitals, in accordance with cost-benefit rationale, and continue to promote this practice
throughout the remaining establishments.
64



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
COSTA RICA: Health Sector Strengthening and Modernization II Project
Local         Foreign         Total
Project Cost By Component                                 US $ million
Policy Design and Implementation                             8.4           10.3            18.7
Project Management and Evaluation                            1.6            1.0             2.6
Total Baseline Cost                                         10.0           11.3           21.3
Physical Contingencies (5%)                               0.5            0.6             1.1
Price Contingencies (10%)                                 1.0            0.00            1.0
Total Project Costs                   11.4            11.9           23.3
Interest during construction
Front-end fee                      0.17           0.17
Total Financing Required              11.4            12.1           23.5
Local         Foreign          Total
Project Cost by Category                                 US $ million
Goods                                                        0.8            1.8             2.6
Consultant Services                                          2.4            5.6             8.0
Training                                                     1.2            0.5             1.7
Subprojects for Deconcentration and Ambulatory Care          5.4            3.6             9.0
Operating Costs                                              1.6            0.4             2.0
Total Project Costs                   11.4            11.9           23.3
Interest during construction    0.0             0.0            0.0
Front-end fee       0.0            0.17           0.17
Total Financing Required              11.4            12.1           23.5
Figures may not add exactly because of rounding
I Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 23.5 (US$m). Therefore, the
project cost sharing ratio is 72.34% of total project cost net of taxes.
65



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Costa Rica Health Sector Strengthening and Modernization
This annex presents the summary results of the cost-benefit analysis of the Costa Rica Health
Sector Strengthening and Modernization Project, based upon the program's costs and the
measurable economic benefits expected from the successful implementation of the proposed
program. The economic evaluation considers only the direct benefits, since the productivity
improvements in health status or reduced mortality are difficult to measure for a project that has a
sector wide approach. The project would produce important indirect benefits that will measured
by the monitoring and evaluation system to allow for ex post evaluation but will no be assumed
ex-ante. As an example, reducing the length of time each patient remains in hospital by increasing
ambulatory surgery will reduce the productivity losses associated with medical care. While the
relationship is not direct since some patients will simply spend more time convalescing at home,
increased ambulatory surgery would result in a direct productivity saving. In a complementary
section, the annex provides a financial analysis to examine the impact of the Project upon the
fiscal burden resulting from project implementation (during project execution and recurrent
costs).
In total, enhancement of system performance is expected to save over $68 million over the life of
the project and over $190 million over a ten year horizon. To determine the overall cost-benefit of
the proposed investment, the economic analysis includes the project costs of $23 million, plus
nearly $1 million in recurrent expenditure per year related to the ongoing costs associated with
improving access to primary health care services, improving supply chain efficiency and
decentralizing services in the provider network. Recurrent costs are estimated at 15% of capital
investment and a depreciation schedule of 5 years for equipment purchases, 3 years for computer
equipment, and 40 years for infrastructure improvements. In summary, the project would yield a
net present value (NPV) of benefits, after investment and recurrent costs, of over $75 million and
produce an internal rate of return (IRR) of nearly 80% over ten years.
The main results include:
Table 1: Summary of Estimated Costs and Benefits
5 years         10 years
NPV (US$millions)                                    $12.0           $75.0
IRR                                                                  79%
Total Costs                                          $22             $29
Benefit:Cost Ratio (CBR)                                             7:1
Note: NPV Benefits is equal to the direct and indirect
benefits, minus total project costs
(in US$millions)
Benefit:Cost is equal to total benefits divided by total
costs
IRR_was_calculated based on_net benefits_over  Oyears
Assuming the cost and benefit measures truly capture their full value, then NPV > 0, CBR >1 or
IRR > discount rate (10%) would automatically imply that the project is worth supporting.
Several factors indicate the present analysis is more likely to underestimate the full value than to
66



overestimate: the analysis uses only three proxy indicators to measure multiple benefits, no
indirect benefits are included, and target levels for direct benefits are conservatively estimated
given the benefits demonstrated in the ongoing Health Sector Reform Project.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The Costa Rica Health Sector Strengthening and Modernization Project will produce substantial
savings for the sector, primarily through reductions in hospitalization costs resulting from
ambulatory surgery. Important savings will also be made in management of pharmaceuticals and
reduced overhead from increasing decentralization. The cost-benefit analysis, which gives the
project a CBR of 7, will yield significant health benefits and economic benefits for the population
Costa Rica. Even when projected recurrent expenditures generated by the project are considered,
the stream of benefits shows that the project would be deemed highly desirable and would be
financially sustainable.
As mentioned in the previous section, the analysis relies entirely on the direct benefits. The direct
benefits are the expected tangible benefits accruable to the project from the reduced hospital
stays, eliminating unnecessary discharges, improving the efficiency of the supply chain and
restructuring and strengthening the CCSS and MH organizational structures. The cost-benefit
analysis assumes that the strengthening and changes in the health care system will be targeted to
3.5 million people, equivalent to estimated population covered by the CCSS (estimate at 85
percent of Costa Rica's total population) and that a ten year period is required to reflect the flow
of costs and benefits. In all cases, the analysis assumes that benefits will not accrue in full until
year 4 of the project.
The most important direct benefits are derived from savings in unnecessary hospitalization. To
estimate the potentially ambulatory interventions a list of DRGs that are potentially ambulatory
intervention was compared with those DRGs in the CCSS. Over 70 interventions were identified
as potential targets for ambulatory intervention and the total number of hospital days allocated to
these interventions was calculated. The total number of days was then multiplied by the average
hospital cost per day, excluding physician and other staff costs, to determine the total savings.
The savings in unnecessary hospitalization would also have an important impact on productivity,
however, these benefits are not included in the present analysis.
The second area of direct benefits is calculated from the improvements in the supply chain. The
long and tedious bidding process, leading to the need to keep excess inventory and thus causing
problems in the storage and distribution of drugs, causes sizable losses to the CCSS in the area of
pharmaceuticals and supplies. A recent analysis point to the fact that the CCSS is currently
spending over $9 million per year to rent space and incurs excess inventory costs that reach well
over $3 million per year. The proposed project will specifically address these problems and will
potentially produce savings in this area of more than $10 million per year. This is a very
conservative estimate of the potential savings since it excludes any indication of savings from
reduced spoilage, theft and delays in distribution.
The final area measured under the direct benefits includes the administrative savings that will be
produced by reorganizations and improved management information systems in the MH and
CCSS. Prior studies by both organizations highlight potential areas for savings. In total, the
present analysis conservatively assumes that ten percent of total administrative expenditures
could be saved by these measures. This would produce annual savings of over $4 million per
year; however, the indicator of $2.4 million will be used to ensure lower bound estimates. Total
administrative costs for the CCSS are under 5 percent, however, the decentralization process
67



liberates resources as activities are devolved and business processes are reengineered. The
following table displays the estimated savings reflected in the direct benefits, the present value,
the investment and recurrent costs and the NPV and IRR for the project.
As shown in the table, benefits outweigh investments nearly seven to one. Over ten years, the net
present value of the project would yield benefits of approximately US$75 million. With the
exception of the first several years, the project is expected to generate annual savings to the
system that outstrip the investment cost, thereby paying for them. The internal rate of return
(IRR) for the project is estimated at 79%, reflecting the extremely high benefits relative to project
costs. This ratio can be used to demonstrate the value of this project relative to other projects in
other sectors; any number lower than the discount rate (10%) would imply that the project should
not be carried out.
Table 1. Summary Costs and Benefits over 10 years
A:nbulatoly             Sa ings      Total Diredt
Year    ImpactSurgely       Supply Chain Admin. Cost  Benefits     PFesent Value Costs      Net Benefits
0  0     0%          -                            , -       -                   3,300,000    (3,300XU)
1        5%      600,000 .     0O,000      120,000     1 i20,000    1,109pp91    6 ,6EOOPO   (5,380o0)
2       256%    3pW.3,00    2,SOO,000      600o00      6,100,000    5.041,322   6,600,000 .O0;3)0)
i  3      %SOW    6,000,0   6,!n7Xn       1,200,W  12,2000          9,166,041    3,300,000     ,900,03)
4.     100%    12000,0      000.0 l0,   2,400,0WO    24,400,00    16,666,628   2,200,000    22,200,000
i  5   100%    12,033,000   10,t000000    2,400,000 )    24,400,000    15,150,480  900,000   23,500,000
6:     100%    12,000,001   107,Q0000    2,400,000    24,400,00    13,773,164.   900,1       23,500,000
7      100%    12 ,P000D   10000W0)      2,400,000    24,400,000    12,621,068     000 2J,600,0
0  8,  100%    12,000pO33i  10,000,000   2,4007X'        24,400,000    11,382,780  900,000    23,500,000
9      100%    12.000o000   o10,000000   2,400.000    24,400,000    10,347,982   900,000    23,500710
10      100%    120000W    10,0010    2,400,000    24,400,001        9,407,257    900pO0 3    23,500pO01
40toal        93JM0,eo   78M,00,01    18,720,0oo0  190,320,001 l 104,564,703  27,400,000    162,920,001;
,5 yeams      33,600,000 2_ 0(90,080    6,720,0     6320,010    47,132,462   19,6111,000 W  48,720,001
t NPV(10 yrs) 575,591,779f62
NPV (5 yrs)  $12,041,334.73
ICSR (10 yrs)        6.9
IRR                  79%
PV Benefhs    104,564,703
In terms of the costs of implementation, the analysis considers two basic elements: (i) the external
investment costs of the World Bank project; and (ii) the recurrent costs. The total project cost
amounts to $23.5 million over nine years. The World Bank would finance $18 million and local
funding sources would finance $5.5 million. The external financing is disbursed over five years
as the project advances with the following disbursement schedule: 15% of total project costs year
1; 30 % year 2; 30% year 3; 15% year 4 and 10% year 5. The recurrent costs reach $0.9 million
per year after the fifth year, once the project is fully operational. This amount includes the
recurrent and incremental costs of investments in equipment and maintenance, as well as the cost
of increasing the coverage of basic health services through the primary care network. Over a ten-
year horizon, the total cost of the project is $27.4 million.
Main Assumptions:
The following parameters are considered relevant in estimating the economic benefits of the
proposed project: the length of the project horizon and the time to impact the health system
performance, the existing patterns of expenditure in each category and existing levels of hospital
utilization and of morbidity and mortality. A discount rate of 10 percent is used in line with the
Bank's 10-12 percent recommendation for discount rates in economic analysis. Given the
medium-to-long-term effect of the changes, the estimates presented in terms of lower direct costs,
assume a project horizon of 10 years.
68



The analysis of the Costa Rica Health Sector Strengthening and Modernization Project uses the
following assumptions to measure the direct and indirect benefits:
(i)    Ambulatory surgery would increase to cover potentially ambulatory interventions,
thereby saving 78,000 unnecessary hospital bed days per year (this is equivalent to less
than 5% of total bed days per year);
(ii)   Supply chain improvements would reduce excess inventories and unnecessary warehouse
rentals, saving $10 million per year by year 4;
(iii)   Reorganization of CCSS and MH would save 10 percent of administrative costs by year 4
of the project; and
(vi)   Discount rate of 10%.
In the following sections, these assumptions will be used evaluate the benefits of the project and
to assess, from an economic perspective, the impact of the project on public finances. All target
reductions in morbidity and mortality would be reached after three years.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
While the above results are conservative, it is important to test the robustness of the results with
regard to potential delays or reductions in benefits. Sensitivity analysis explores how plausible
changes in assumptions about uncertain variables affect conclusions regarding the project.
Uncertainty in the three main assumptions is reflected by using sensitivity analysis to test the
impact of delays of 2 and 3 years, as well as a reduction in benefits of 20%, and 40%. The
following table summarizes the results of the sensitivity analysis.
Table 2: Sensitivity Analysis
Type of Sensitivity Analysis
NPV            IRR
(US$            (%)
millions)
Base Scenario                                              74.1            79%
2 year delay                                               43.5            70%
3 year delay                                               30.2            62%
20% reduction in benefits                                  55.1            65%
40% reductions in benefits                                 24.6            39%
The previous table shows the effect of delays and lower than expected benefits on the NPV and
IRR. Overall, the project would remain justifiable even assuming a 3 year delay in project
benefits or a 40 percent reduction in the benefits received, assuming the traditional parameters
which dictate that annual rate of return earned should be greater than or equal to the discount rate
of the project, to maintain an efficient allocation of Bank resources. The high IRR also
underscores the cost-effective nature of the program.
69



Annex 5: Financial Summary
COSTA RICA: Health Sector Strengthening and Modernization II Project
Years Ending
Implementation Period
Year 1       Year 2   l Year 3  l Year 4 l Year 5
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         1,735,000    8,235,000  7,125,000 3,225,000    650,000
Recurrent Costs           395,000       487,500   390,000   682,500   487,500
rotal Project Costs            2,130,000    8,722,500  7,515,000 3,907,500  1,137,500
Front-end Fee (1%)
170,000           0         0         0         0
rotal Project Financing        2,300,000    8,722,500  7,515,000 3,907,500  1,137,500
70



Annex 6
Procurement Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
COSTA RICA
Procurement Arranuements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and BANK Credits ", published in January 1995 (revised
January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in September 1997 and
January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
Procurement methods: The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the
estimated amounts of each method, are summarized in Table A.
Procurement of Works. This project will finance procurement of minor rehabilitation works of
health facilities (in ambulatory areas) under the framework of Ambulatory Care (AC) subprojects (see
below), designed to promote and foster results linked to management agreements (Compromisos de
Gestioin). Financing of subprojects related to infrastructure rehabilitation would be associated to grants
made by health units in the compliance of targets of the Implementation Policy and Support Matrix (see
Annex 2B). No International Competitive Bidding (ICB) or National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedures for works are expected in view of the nature of the works. Individual contract values of
rehabilitation works are estimated to cost less than US$150,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of
US$1.35 million. Works may be procured directly by participating health entities on the basis of
competitive procedures of at least three quotations from qualified local contractors, received in response
to a written invitation. Quotations documentation will include a detailed description of the works, basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of request for quotations, and a proforma of a
lump-sum fixed-price contract, and relevant drawings, as applicable. TA to support hospitals in
preparation of these subprojects is included in the project.
Procurement of Goods. Goods procured under this project may include medical and computing
equipment and software licenses, office and medical furniture, totaling US$4.5 million equivalent. To the
extent possible, contracts of computing equipment procured at central level will be grouped into bidding
packages of more than US$250,000 equivalent and procured following ICB procedures, using Bank-
issued Standard Bidding Documents (SDBs). Contracts for medical equipment and furniture and which
cannot be grouped into larger bidding packages and estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent
per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$2.25 million, may be procured using shopping
(National/International) procedures, using an agreed model document for requests of quotations. The
latter purchases would be carried out by local hospital teams. Direct contracting may be use to purchase
additional licenses for software from providers of the original licenses procured competitively under
under the ongoing project up to an aggregate of US$150,000.
Selection of Consultants. Consulting services will be contracted in the project mainly in the
following areas of expertise: policy design and implementation, health sector regulatory framework,
restructuring and human resources planning and reengineering, institutional strengthening (organization,
operation and procurement), studies and assessments, training, and project monitoring and evaluation.
71



Firms:
All consulting services with contract values above US$100,000 will be contracted following
QCBS procedures, using Bank Standard Request for Proposals (RFP), up to an aggregate value of
US$8.39 . The balance of other consulting services required in the project, with contract values estimated
to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent, may be contracted following selection procedures for
Consultants'Qualifications, as described in paragraph 3.7 of Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of
US$0.18. Least-cost selection procedures would be applicable, as described in para. 3.6 of Guidelines,
for contracting consultants services required for technical assistance, auditing, and training activities in
Deconcentrations and Ambulatory Care subprojects, and for project concurrent and annual audits, up to
an aggregate amount of US$5.70 million equivalent. All TORs for consulting services in this category
would be subject to ex-ante review of the Bank; and for contracts valued more than US$100,000, Bank's
ex-ante review would apply to short lists, criteria for selection and contracting documentation.
Individuals
Specialized advisory or technical assistance and project administration services would be
provided by national and international individual consultants selected by comparison of qualifications of
at least three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 and 5.2 of the
Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.625 million. All TORs would be subject to
ex-ante review by Bank, and for contracts valued above US$50,000, Bank prior review would apply to all
candidates personal information (CVs) and honoraria proposed.
Trainine. Training activities in the project will finance cost related to the delivery of training
seminars and workshops, production and printing of training materials, and logistics costs related to
transportation, housing and subsistence of trainees and trainers, national and international study tours to
foster professional development of CCSS staff in hospital management, decentralization policies, and
implementation. Contracting of these activities would follow closely competitive procedures and contract
value thresholds agreed for other consultants services in the project. QCBS aggregates in this category are
US$1.6 million, while least-cost contract values aggregate to US$0.1 million.
Deconcentration and Ambulatory Care Subproiects. Under the deconcentration incentive
framework of the management agreements, the Bank has agreed to finance subprojects with grants from
the CCSS to Project hospitals to finance a menu of procurement activities in the subprojects approved.
Hospitals will determine the mix of inputs in their subprojects and will be responsible for the bidding and
contracting, while the PCU would be responsible for making payments to providers, upon receipt of
satisfactory documentation from hospitals. Procedures for flow of actions will be included in OM.
Subprojects may include different procurement activities, depending on the needs of each hospital, and
may involve minor rehabilitation works (remodeling), and procurement of medical equipment and
furniture and other miscellaneous goods, training, and study tours. Methodologies for these activities
have been agreed under applicable procedures for shopping for goods, three quotations for minor works,
and selection of consulting services for firms under LCS (paragraph. 3.6); and for individuals Section V
(paragraphs 5.1 and 5.2) of Guidelines. No aggregates in the expenditure categories have been set for the
individual mix of inputs included in a subproject, however, no single subproject may exceed the value of
US$350,000 for rehabilitation works, and US$100,000 for goods, training or consulting services. A
hospital may apply for financing of one or several subprojects during project life.
Operational Costs. These costs include contracts for long-term consultants performing key
functions in the PCU and other administrative staff, incremental office rentals and utilities, maintenance
of office equipment and consumable office supplies. Since Bank will not finance any activity in this
expenditure category no definition of procedures has been made.
72



Prior review thresholds: The threshold contract values for the use of each procurement method
are shown in Table B. In addition to prior review of individual procurement actions as detailed in the
PACs, the annual operating plans and budgets (POAs) prepared by the CCSS will be reviewed and agreed
with the Bank annually, including criteria related to the financing of DC and AC subprojects agreed under
the project.
Assessment of the Agency's capacity to implement procurement
Project coordination and administration for the new operation shows readiness for
implementation with a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) already operating in the CCSS, with well
seasoned and sufficient staff, knowledgeable of Bank procurement policies and procedures. Presence of
key administrative, financial and procurement functions in the PCU, including a full set of project specific
SBDs and RFP documents, indicate an advanced status for readiness for implementation.
Notwithstanding this report, it is proposed to strengthen even further the PCU monitoring and supervisory
capacity and new organization arrangements. Strengthening and staff development measures will seek to
ensure an even stronger platform to implement this second operation. They may include, inter alia,
specific actions directed to reach a higher degree of communication and collaboration of the PCU with the
controlling national and internal entities in CCSS and General Comptroller's Office (CGO), which could
contribute to reduce impasses, such as those that have afflicted implementation in the ongoing project.
Indeed, communication and collaboration are expected to be critical project accountabilities of the PCU in
the case of procurement and other project activities directed to contribute to the achievement of project
monitoring and evaluation results. It is expected that by project launching, a series of training activities
would have taken place to foster the knowledge base of key actors in the procurement process, including
staff from the internal Direcci6n Juridica and the CGO, and selected staff from health units.
The procurement function in the PCU is presently carried out by one procurement officer and an
assistant who are closely supervised by the Administrative and Financial Manager of the PCU. Terms of
reference and profiles were evaluated and found satisfactory. However, the Action Plan agreed at
negotiations with the borrower, will include training activities. Contracts of individual consultants will
detail accountability of staff in the monitoring and supervision of the PACs. With regards to the health
units, these entities are already engaged in procurement of required inputs in their areas, under the regular
budgets. Since the threshold and methodology proposed in the project for procurement by these units will
be conducted only following shopping or three quotations procedures, the capacity of these units has been
assessed as satisfactory. The OM will be revised to include, in addition to all other technical, financial
and administrative procedures recommended during appraisal, a separate detailed procurement section on
procedures, methodologies, action flow charts and documentation that would apply in the new operation
at the central and local levels. Under the proposed operation, the PCU accountability in the execution and
supervision of procurement actions in the annual PACs, will be substantially increased in its key role of
proactive partner in the achievement of results of the IMAS.
An assessment of the procurement capacity of CCSS, and particularly of the PCU and the health
units, has been completed and has been filed with the office of the Regional Procurement Advisor. The
assessment results focus basically on three main issues: (i) difficult national procurement environment
regarding prevalence of Bank's Guidelines and controversies vis a vis the role of the CGO in the ex-post
review of signed contracts, (ii) demonstrated limitations of the PCU to respond timely and effectively to
the delays impressed on project PACs and following up of frequent bidder disputes; and (iii) capacity of
the PCU to coordinate and advise the health units in the procurement of inputs included in their
subprojects.
The principal risks identified in the assessment include: (i) the possibility of continued impasses
in the contracting of project inputs in time to meet project goals, which may continue to occur as a result
73



of the ex-post review of signed contracts by the institutional and national controlling agencies; (ii)
contrasting procurement activity between the procurement system of the CCSS guided by the national
contracting law procedures, and the norms and procedures that govern procurement in the Bank-financed
project; (iii) in the case of decentralization (DC) and Ambulatory Care (AC) subprojects, the capacity and
energy of the PCU to monitor and supervise procurement activities carried out by health units (hospitals
and health centers); and (iv) changes in administration of CCSS that may require adjustments or
renegotiation of the agreements reached with the controlling bodies vis-a-vis project procurement for this
operation, or bottlenecks that may occur by simply staff turnover.
The overall project risk for procurement, on the assumption of the prevailing contracting
environment and the piloting of DC and AC subprojects, is average.
Although the overall risk is medium at project appraisal, it is expected that gains from an
increased involvement and communication of the PCU the controlling entities may reduce the risk. To
ensure that sufficient monitoring and supervision measures are advanced by the PCU, an Action Plan has
been agreed at negotiations to ensure that all systems for documents filing, monitoring and reporting of
procurement are in place and are consistent with the financial management activities agreed for the
project for issuance of PMRs-3. While the Financial Management System (FMS) for the project is put in
place (see section below on financial assessment), the PCU will be manually preparing the PMR-3
required for procurement reporting. However, such situation should be re-assessed when the work on the
FMS is completed and the new organizational chart becomes effective. OM will include specific
procedures that would apply to the approval of subprojects during project life.
Procurement Plan. A global procurement plan (GPAC) for all physical and services inputs in
the life of the project is available. In the case of DC and AC subprojects, initial steps were taken to
ensure the development of specific procurement strategies in support to engage health entities in the
preparation of their subprojects and the selection of inputs from the basket of requirements detailed under
the project strategic matrix. It has been agreed that the PCU, prior to project effectiveness, would update
and finalize the PAC for the first year of project implementation, and would continue to carry out an
annual update of the PAC, with as much detail as permnitted in response to the POA agreed with the Bank.
The following is the Procurement Capacity Enhancements Action Plan that has been agreed with CCSS at
negotiations:
PROCUREMENT CAPACITY - ACTION PLAN
Activities and Target Dates
PLANNING
a) Completion of GPAC for the project, and the  By effectiveness
detailed procurement plan for the first year of
the project implementation
b) Monitor and evaluation of yearly PAC vis a   Ongoing. Report to Bank delays above 15 calendar
vis Ex-post review by General Comptroller's  days of agreed procurement schedule.
Office (GCO).
POLICY & PROCEDURES
c) Obtain the endorsement of the General    By effectiveness
Comptroller's Office (GCO) regarding the
prevalence of Bank Guidelines over national
Law.
74



PROCUREMENT CAPACITY - ACTION PLAN
Activities an Target Dates
d) Publication of a Code of Ethics; include CE    By effectiveness
in each signed contract of staff in long-term
service at PCU and other similar consultants
providing long tertn TA to project.
e) Updating of the Operational Manual (OM)    Draft by August 2001 for Bank's prior review.
regarding (i) procurement covenants in the    Adoption by effectiveness
new project, (ii) detailed procedures for
approval and contracting in subprojects, and
(iii) monitoring of physical-financial-
procurement.
TRA[NING
f) Periodic participation of PCU specialized  Review with Bank during annual evaluations, or earlier
staff in procurement workshops, as they  as training is available.
become available during the life of the
project.
g) Carry out a seminar, coordinated by high  By September 30, 2001
officials of the Bank, for substantive
exchange on differences between national
procurement in CR and Bank's Guidelines.
Training will include staff in the PCU, legal
unit in CCSS, and selected officials in the
GCO.
CONSULTANT SERVICES
h) Develop a system of identification of    a) Publish by Jan 30 of each year, a notice of
specialized consultants (including data base)  Requests for "Expressions of Interest in
required to assume technical assistance in  Development Business, and national press, yearly
critical areas publishing requests for      plans of contracting technical assistance.
expressions of interest at least every six  b) Update notice no later than July 30 each year.
months.
i) Integrate technical commissions in CCSS  Hold initial meetings with all members of commissions
responsible for short-listing firms.    in charge of short-listing after expressions of interests
have been received.
At least 3 weeks before issuance of RFP.
j)  Enforce use of critical path monitoring  By effectiveness.
systems (i.e. MS Project) and instruments by
all technical staff in PCU.
k) Quarterly review by the Bank of contracting   Beginning first quarter after effectiveness.
programs of consultants' services for
contracts below US$100,000 for firms and
US$50,000 for individual consultants.
PROCUREMENT RECORDS
1) Maintain in one file all documentation related  By effectiveness, or earlier if retroactive financing is
to the selection, contract and product delivery used.
schedules for all consultants in the project.
Freiiuency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out by Bank from its offices, the capacity
assessment recommends one full supervision mission to carry out post-review of procurement actions.
75



Based on the overall risk assessment (medium), the ex-post review analysis by Bank should cover a
sample of not less than I in 5 contracts signed. Close monitoring of the PAC by project team will be
required throughout project life in order to ensure that the agreements reached in terms of timing and
level of ex-post examination by the controlling entities are in place, as a proactive approach to avoid
major disruption to implementation.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method (1)
Expenditure Category              ICB    NCB   Other (2) NBF   Total Cost
1. Goods                                     2.40               0.35                2.75
2. Consulting Services and Audits            0.00    0.00       7.70   0.00         7.70
3. Training                                  0.00    0.00       1.70                 1.70
4. Subprojects
(a) Deconcentration                          0.00    0.00       4.60   0.00         4.60
(b) Ambulatory Care                          0.0(    0.0C       4.50   0.00         4.50
5. Operating Costs                                              2.00                2.00
II  V.iIEI.
6. Front-end Fee                                                0.17                0.17
Total:   2.40    0.001    21.10   0.0C         23.5
(1) Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by BIRF. All costs include contingencies.
(2) Procurement methodologies, where applicable, in this column include: (i) for good and computing
equipment: national or international shopping; (ii) consulting services: procedures described in respective
Section A of this Annex; (iii) grants financing subprojects: nationalVinternational shopping for medical
equipment and furniture purchased; small works, 3 quotations, fixed-priced lump sum contracts, and (iv)
for incremental operational costs, national procedures since Bank will not be financing purchases, O&M,
nor long-term consultants and support staff in PCU.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
76



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent, figures include contingencies)
Consultant                              Selection Method                             Total
Services/Training                                                                        Cost
Expenditure
Categories
QCBS       QCQ   SFB        LCS          CQ      Other   N.B.F
A. Firms                  8.39   N/A                5.70       0.180                       14.27
Category 2              6.79                       0.10       0.180                        7.07
Category 3               1.6                        .10                                    1.7
Category 4                                         5.50                                    5.50
B. Individuals                                                            0.63               .63
Total                                                                                14.9
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  Least-Cost Selection
CQ   Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
77



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          Contract Value            Procurement            Contracts
Category             (Threshold)                Method              Subject to
Prior Review
US $ thousands                              US $ millions
1. Goods
More than $250,000          ICB                     All
Less than $250,000          NCB                     First contract
Less than $50,000           Shopping                   None
Less than $50,000     Direct Contracting        None
(software licenses only)
2.Consulting
Services and Audits
3. Training
(a) Firms          More than $200,000            QBCS,                      All
MandatoryPublication
Less than $200,00 and more    QCBS                      All
than US$100,000
Less than $100,000              LCS                    None
(b) Individuals    Less than $50,000           Section V                  None
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  10.500
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 month(s)
(includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits).
Financial management assessment
In accordance with IBRD's policy OP/BP 10.02, the Regional Financial Management Team (LCOAA)
reviewed the project's financial management (FM) arrangements. The review was focused on the
assessment of the: accounting and internal control system; financial and management reporting; and
auditing arrangements.
It was concluded that that the PCU has in place adequate FM arrangements for the ongoing Health Sector
Reform Project. An action plan (below) was prepared with the purpose of enhancing these arrangements
and adapting them to the proposed new project.
78



Substantial completion of certain tasks (see action plan) will be a condition of loan effectiveness. The
action plan, all together, aims at allowing the project to implement FM arrangements that can provide,
with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely financial information via Project Management Reports
(PMRs).
Financial management action plan
Area / Action                 Expected date          C.E.
1. Implementing entity
None
2. Flow of funds     _____
2.1 Perform the study on Special Account deposit   Jun - Aug 01       X
time lags and agree with MOF on mitigating
actions.
2.2 Open the project bank accounts: the Special  Sep - Nov 01
Account in US Dollars in a bank to be selected by
the CCSS, subject to IBRD's concurrence; and the
account in colones for local payments
3. Staffing
3.1 Before effectiveness, extend the contracts of key  Sep - Nov 01   X
PCU's financial staff to ensure continuation of
efforts for the new project.
3.2 Develop annual plans for training and formal    Ongoing
staff evaluations.                           through
implementation
period
4. Accounting and internal control
4.1 On the basis of the manual and chart of accounts  Jun - Aug01     X
for the ongoing project, prepare the equivalent
documents for the proposed project (in view of its
specific components and disbursement categories).
4.2 Acquire accounting-specific software able to  Sep - Nov 01        X
manage the project chart of accounts.
4.3 Establish a subsidiary register of the assets
acquired by the project (specific information on
code number, location, responsible person, etc. will  Ongoing
be drawn from CCSS' own system for asset     through
accounting), and reconcile on a monthly basis the    implementation
total cost shown by the register with the balance of   period
the "goods" account in project records.
4.4 Perform physical inventories, at least annually,
of the project's register of assets.
79



Area / Action                 Expected date         C.E.
4.5 Ensure that each journal entry is signed by the Ongoing
General Accountant, and monthly subsidiary records through
and reconciliations of accounts payable/receivable  implementation
are maintained.                              period
4.6 As agreed during negotiations, prepare annual   Jun - Aug 01     X
project budgets (quarterly for the first year)
considering, at least, segregation by source of funds,
disbursement category and project component.
4.7 Incorporate the project's budget to CCSS' 2002  Jun -Nov 01      X
budget proposal.
4.8 Prepare the financial management section of the  Jun - Nov 01    X
project's Operational Manual. Areas to be covered
include but are not limited to: payment procedures;
flow-of-funds chart; accounting manual; filing of
accounting documentation; budget preparation;
distribution and review of financial statements;
follow-up procedures to audit recommendations;
and special procedures for management of
subprojects.
5. External audit
5.1 Submit audit report on CCSS's financial Jun-Aug 01               X
statements as of December 31, 2000.
5.2 Prepare the audit TORs and short list of firms  Sep -Nov 01      X
for the new project. The TORs would contemplate
interim reporting.
5.3 Once the Bank clears the cited documents (see
5. 1), proceed with the appointment of the external    Sep - Nov 01
auditors.
6. Financial reports and monitoring
6.1 Agree on the formats for quarterly and annual Jun - Aug 01       X
financial statements.
6.2 Submit first quarterly project management  Apr - Jun 02
report (PMR) to IBRD no later than six months after
effectiveness.
(*) To be considered for compliance with FM condition of effectiveness (CE)
For monitoring purposes the CCSS would prepare, every two months, reports on the progress in execution
of the FM Action Plan.
Project Management Reports (PMRs)
Beginning no later than six months after effectiveness, the Borrower would prepare quarterly PMRs to be
submitted to IBRD 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter. In accordance with formnats to be
agreed with IBRD, each PMR should comprise at least:
80



(i) a financial section that will include cumulative and quarter information on: (i) sources and uses of
funds; (ii) expenditures classified by project component and disbursement category compared to the
respective projected figures; (iii) expenditures by source of funds; and (iv) reconciliation of the Special
Account;
(ii) an output monitoring section that: (a) describes physical progress in project implementation (based on
the Monitoring & Evaluation system); and (b) explains variances between the actual and previously
forecast implementation targets; and
(iii) a procurement section setting forth the status of procurement under the project and expenditures
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
Auditing arrangements
Project and CCSS's accounts will be audited annually by an independent firm acceptable to IBRD, under
terms of reference to be approved by IBRD. Certified copies of the audit reports would be furnished to
IBRD no later than June 30 of the year following the period under review. However, interim auditing
activities will be provided throughout the year (at least biannually).
Disbursements
Allocation of loan proceeds (see Table C). The proposed IBRD loan would be disbursed over an
implementation period of about five years; the loan closing date would be December 31, 2006.
Disbursements would be in accordance with guidelines set out in the World Bank's Disbursement
Handbook and LACI Implementation Handbook, as applicable.
Disbursements would be made against the following categories of expenditure:
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount in US$million       Financing Percentage
1. Goods                               1.5                       60%
2. Consultants Services and            6.0                       75%
Audits
3. Training                            1.3                       75%
4. Subprojects
(a) Deconcentration                    4.0                       75%
(b) Ambulatory Care                    2.5                       70%
5. Fee                                0.17                      100%
5. Unallocated                         1.53
Total Loan Proceeds:         17.0
81



Table D: Disbursement Schedule of Loan Proceeds
FISCAL Years, US$ Million equivalent
Period           Disbursement Appraisal   Cumulative        Annual
Estimate          Disbursement  Percentage of
Total
FY 2002       June 2001-June 2002              1.14                1.14            7
FY 2003      June 2002- June 2003             3.70                 4.84            22
FY 2004       June 2003-June 2004              5.00                9.84            29
FY 2005       June 2004-June 2005             3.54                13.38            21
FY 2006       June 2005-June 2006              1.82               15.20            11
FY 2007    June 2006-December 2006             1.80                17.00           11
Table E: Disbursement Schedule of Loan Proceeds
CALENDAR Years, US$ Million equivalent
Period               Disbursement        Cumulative        Annual
Appraisal Estimate   Disbursements  Percentage of
Total
FY 2002 *     May 2001-December 2002             2.30              2.30             13
FY 2003    January 2002-December 2003           5.17              7.47             30
FY 2004    January 2004-December 2004           4.77              12.24            28
FY 2005    Januery 2005-December 2005           2.30              14.54            14
FY 2006    January 2006-December 2006           1.34              15.88            8
FY 2007       January 2007-June 2007            1.12              17.00            7
* Includes retroactive financing
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Loan withdrawal applications can be supported by SOEs for
expenditures relating to contracts that are not subject to IBRD's prior review (see Table B).
Reimbursement of other expenditures would require submittal to IBRD of full supporting documentation.
Documents in support of SOEs must be maintained by the Government at least until one year after IBRD
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last loan withdrawal was made. Such
documents must be available to review by the external auditors and IBRD representatives.
Use of Project Management Reports (PMRs). If the Government shall so request, loan disbursements
would be based on quarterly PMRs upon satisfactory implementation of the financial management,
monitoring and procurement system. Until then, "traditional" disbursement procedures (e.g.,
reimbursements, direct payments, full documentation, SOEs) would be used for loan disbursements.
Special Account. To facilitate project implementation, the CCSS would establish, maintain and operate a
Special Account to be opened in US Dollars at a bank to be selected by the CCSS, subject to IBRD's
concurrence. The size of the Special Account will be U$1.5 million, with an initial deposit of U$750,000
until such time that aggregate disbursements reach U$4 million.
The Special Account is only to be used for eligible expenditures under the loan (under no circumstances
may funds in the Special Account be used to cover the share of expenditures corresponding to the
82



counterpart and/or other financiers). Transfers from the Special Account to other bank accounts will only
be permitted to meet eligible expenditures for a limited period of less than 30 days.
Under "traditional" disbursement procedures, total advances to the Special Account at any given time
would not exceed the "authorized allocation" of US$1.5 million.
Under PMR-based disbursement procedures, IBRD would deposit quarterly into the Special Account an
amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested by the Government; and (b) the amount which
IBRD has determined, based on the PMR, is required to be deposited in order to finance eligible
expenditures during the six-month period following the date of the PMR; provided, however, that the
amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said PMR to be remaining in the Special
Account, shall not exceed an amount equal to US$3 million.
Separate audit opinions on the Special Account, SOEs and PMRs would be provided in conjunction with
the annual independent audit of the project.
83



Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
COSTA RICA: Health Sector Strengthening and Modernization II Project
Project Schedule                                 Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)          6                     6
First Bank mission (identification)             12/02/2000            12/02/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     05/21/2001           05/21/2001
Negotiations                                    06/06/2001           06/11/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   10/20/2001
Prepared by: Maria Luisa Escobar
Preparation assistance: Sonia Levere
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                            Specialty
Maria-Luisa Escobar (LCSHD)                       Task Manager Sr. HNP Economist
Ruth Levine (LCSHD)                               Sr. HNP Economist
Suzana Augusto (LCC2C)                            Principal Operations Officer
Sonia Levere (LCSHD)                              Language Program Assistant
Manuel Vargas (LCOAA)                             Financial Management Officer
Eduardo Brito (LEGOP)                             Sr. Counsel
M6nica Rojas de Amez (LOAEL)                      Disbursement Officer, a.i.
Rosa Estrada (LCSHD)                              Procurement and Implementation Analyst
Maria Valeria Pena (LCSEO)                        Lead Sociologist
Local Counterpart Team:
Carlos Mufioz                                     CCSS
Giovanni Marquez                                  CCSS
James Cercone                                     CCSS
Carlos Montoya                                    CCSS
Juan Carlos Sanchez                               CCSS
Marita Rojas                                      CCSS
Fabio Duran                                       CCSS
Roxana Viquez                                     CCSS
Marielos Miranda                                  CCSS
Claudio Arce                                      ccss
Xinia Carvajal                                    Ministry of Health
Peer Reviewers
Jean Jacques de St. Antoine (ECSHD)               Lead Operations Officer
Gerard La Forgia (LCSHD)                          Sr. Health Specialist
84



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
COSTA RICA: Health Sector Strengthening and Modernization II Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Assessment
1. Financial Assessment Report
2. Action Plan
3. Financial Management Certificate
Procurement Assessment
1. Procurement Capacity Assessment of CCSS
2. Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement - Setting Thresholds
3. Marco Juridico
4. Plan de Adquisiciones y Contrataciones 2002-2006
5. Informe de Evaluaci6n Anual de la Direcci6n de Compra de Servicios de Salud, CCSS
Environmental Assessment
1. Manejo y Tratamiento de Desechos Hospitalarios, CCSS
2. General Health Law.
3. Ricardo Torres Ruiz, Pan American Health Organization. Environmental Assessment Report.
4. Manejo de Desechos Hospitalarios, Coste Suprema de Justicia, Costa Rica
5. Tratamiento y Disposici6n Final de los Desechos Hospitalarios Peligrosos, CCSS
Social Assessment
1. A.S.ILS. Analisis de Situaci6n Integral de Salud, CCSS
2. Estimaci6n del Costo de la Atenci6n en Salud de Usuarios Panamefios y Nicaraguenses,
Secci6n de Analisis Demografico, CC
3. Perfil de los Pueblos Indigenas de Costa Rica, Banco Mundial y RUTA
C. Other
1. Estancia Total Y Media Por GDR con Estancia Menor o Igual a 2 dias, C.C.S.S, 1999
2. Seguro de Salud Gasto en Servicios Personales (en valores absolutos
y relativos), 1999
3. La Agenda Pendiente de la Reforma de la CCSS: Los Retos del Nuevo
Milenio, CCS, 18 de enero del 2000
4. Proyecto de Modernizaci6n: Perspectivas para Enfrentar la Agenda Pendiente
Caja Costarricense de Seguro Social (CCSS). Junio 2000
5. Borrador Informe PER Consolidado, 13 noviembre 2000
6. Defensoria habitantes
7. Juntas/Salud y otros
8. Opini6n Publica CCSS - Universidad de Costa Rica.
9. Cooperativas de Salud en Costa Rica
10. Cooperativas de Servicios de Salud, Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto Reforma Prestamo
3654-CR
85



11. Costa Rica: Poverty Reduction and Social Protection Adjustment Loan Concept Note.
12. El Desmantelamiento de los Servicios de Salud
13. Analisis de los Equipos Basicos de Atenci6n Integral de Salud (EBAIS).
14. Instituto Mixto de Ayuda Social, Equipo SIPO
15. Compromiso de Gesti6n, Genesis e Inpacto en los Servicios de Salud
16. Health Sector Component
17. Health Sector Concept Note.
Impacto del proceso de reforma del Sector Salud: Hacia la mejora de la equidad, solidaridad,
calidad y eficiencia social, Dr. Juan Carlos Sanchez Arguedas, Gerente, Modernizaci6n y
Desarrollo, 21 de marzo 2001.
18. Issues in Health Sector Regulation OPI Seminar Series, Trinity Term 2000: Week Seven.
19. Informe sobre el funcionamiento de las Juntas de Salud.
20. Prioridades para el Sector Salud Expresadas por diferentes personas.
Articulos La Naci6n (3 articulos); Articulo La Repuiblica (1); Informe sobre el
funcionamiento de lasjuntas de salud.
21. Matriz de Politica -Traducci6n al espaflol.
22. Opini6n Puiblica CCSS - Universidad de Costa Rica (varios documentos).
23. Overview of Costa Rican Health Sector Reforms.
24. Analisis del Gasto Publico Social, Borrador para Discusi6n, Abril 2001.
25. La Reforma de la CCSS: agenda para el nuevo milenio (borrador para discusi6n).
26. Policy Matrix, April 21, 2001.
27. Policy Matrix, Rev_6
28. Policy Matrix Risks
29. Costa Rica: A Public Expenditure Review.
30. Referencia Bibliografica Encuestas UCR.
31. The Pharmaceutical Sector CCSS
James Cercone and Magda Rosenmoller (2000), "Costa Rica: A new Hospital for Heredia, a
public partnership for health care", case study prepared for the conference "Challenges in
Health Reform: Reaching the Poor, San Josd, Costa Rica, May 2000."
32. Procedimientos de Contrataci6n con Fondos de Emprestitos
Efectos del Fortalecimiento de la Atenci6n Integral de la Salud en la Capacidad Resolutiva
Cobertura de la Atenci6n Primaria y Actividades Hospitalarias, CCSS
33. Encuesta de opini6n sobre la Calidad de Atenci6n, CCSS
*Including electronic files.
86



Annex 9 -Costa Rica
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
As Of Date 05/01/2001
Closed Projects        35
IBRD/IDA *
Total Disbursed (Active)         76.70
of which has been repaid    27.36
Total Disbursed (Closed)         637.40
of which has been repaid    754.60
Total Disbursed (Active + Closed)  714.07
of which has been repaid    781.95
Total Undisbursed (Active)       40.90
Total Undisbursed (Closed)       0.38
Total Undisbursed (Active + Closed)   41.28
Active Proiects                                                                                                                   Difference Between
Last PSR                                                          Expected and Actual
SPN Rating                Original Amount in US$ Millions           Disbursements "
Project ID                       Project Name                  DO        IP        FY       IBRD    IDA   GRANT Cancel. Undisb.   Orig. Frmn Rev'd
P039876                          BIODIVERSITY               HS           HS       1998          0       0         7       0      3.6   -1.1          0
P006954                          CR- HEALTH SECTOR REFORMS               S        1994         22       0         0       0      3.2    3.2         3.2
P052009                         ECOMARKET                   S            S        2000        326       0         0       0     32.6    5.1          0
P061314                         ECOMARKETS                  S            S        2000          0       0         8      0       7.8    0.9          0
P006926                         TRNSPRT SCTR INV            S            S        1990         60       0         0      12      2.3   14.3         0.2
P006941                         WATER SUPPLY                S            S        1993         26       0         0      10      2.8    12.8        2.8
Overall result                                                                   Result      140.6      0        15      22     52.3   35.2         6.2
87



CAS Annex B8 (IFC) for Costa Rica
Costa Rica
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 12/31/2000
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                    Disbursed
FY Approval Company           Loan  Equity Quasi Partic Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
1991 Banex             0.36      0      0     0  0.36       0      0     0
1998 CIMA Costa           0    1.2      0     0      0    1.2      0     0
1994 HIDROZARCAS   1.65          0  0.65  1.21  1.65        0  0.65   1.21
1993 INTERFIN          1.43      0      0     0  1.43       0      0     0
1999 Superunidos         30     10      0     0    17      10      0     0
Total Portfolio:      33.44   11.2  0.65   1.21 20.44   11.2  0.65   1.21
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
2001 Aeropuerto IJS   35000       0     0 85000
Total Pending Commitment:  35000       0      0 85000
88



Annex 10
Costa Rica at a glance
Latin    Lownr-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    Costa   America   mddle- 
Rica   & Cartb.  Income       Development diamondi
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                         316        509     2,094                  Life expectancy
GNP per capia (Atlas method, US$)                     3.670      3 840    1t200
GNP (Atlas method, US$ hbilions)                        13.2     1,955     2,513
Average annuat growth, 1993-99
Population(%)                                            1t9       11S       1.1
Labor force(%)                                          2.3        2.5       1t2      GNP                              Gross
per          \                  omany
Most recent estimate Ilatest year atvatiabtae 1993-99)                                capita              /         nrollment
Poverty l(% of population betow national poverty hne)
Urban population (% of total populthion)                 45         75        43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         77         70        69
infant mortality (per 1,000 live birthsi                1'3         31        33
Cnilrd malnutrition (% of children under 5)               5          8        15                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water souroe (% of populalion)        92         75        8t
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      5         12        16
Gross primaryenrollment (%6of school-age population)    104        113       114               Costa Rica
Mate                                                  104                  114               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                103                  116
KEY ECONOMIC RAtiOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     198S       tS98      l "mro
GOP (US  bitions)                              51       6.6       13.9       15.0
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                 25.3     26.5       20.5       16                       Trade
Exports of goods and servces/GP               2659     35.2       48.0      53,9
Gross dornestic savings/GDP                   15.0     22.6       17.6      23,1
Grossnational savings/GOP                     124       17.1      15.2      13.8
Current account balance/GOP                  -10'9     -6 6        -5.3     -3.1      Dmsi
Interest paymentsvGDP                          2.3      2.0        1.3        1.3     Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GOP                                41 7      695       28.6      27.9
Toal debt serviwalexports                     34.9      177        7.9       62
Present value of debt/GDP                                 -       27.3
Present value of detglexports                                     54.7
Indebtedness
197949  1189-99      199        1999   199943
(average annual gro wth)
GDP                                   2.3      5 0      8 0        8.4       S 2                Costa Rica
GNP per capita                       -0.7      2.7      4.6       -1 6       3.7                Lower-rnidde4nconme group
Exportsofgoodsand services            47      104      26.4       17.0       64
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investmrent and GDP I%)
(% of GDP)
Agnculture                                    21.1      19.6      12.7       12.5
Industry                                      30.1      30.6      30.6      30.7     |8
Manufacturing                                20.B     23.2       23.5      23 6
Services                                      48.8  49.B   56.7   56 8   o 9
Prvate consumption                            66.9     60.5       69.3      64.0
General government consumption                18.1      17.0      13.2       12.9              -GD*  GDP
Imports of goods and services                 37.2     39.1       50.9      47.4
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999      Growth of exports and tnmports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    2.7       4 2       6 0        3.6    30
Industry                                       2.0      5.7       11.3      21 1     20
Manufacturing                                 2.4      6.1       11.0      247
Services                                       2.5      5.4        6.7       371   10
Private consumption                            4.7      4.5        5.5      -0.1 '
General govemment consumption                  05        1.8       31         1.0                  9           97   98   99
Gross domestic investment                     -8.2       8.3      11.6       -2.6    -
Imports of goods and services                  3.8      9 0       20.2       -1.0              -Erports    -1Irnports
Gross national product                         2.1       4 8       6.4        0.1
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average if data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.






IBRD 29280
To  Logo do                                       54                                              8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3'  87'I        87-0TS
M.,9o               Niciara'u                            NICA       AGU
C'Cc,                                                   COSTA RICA
,,. [ mAZ4                     S            TE4. o ;/* PHYSICAL FEATURES
$J    -    35'                     sra   AND TRANSPORTATION
o               8
RE' , > ,  j:0  D                                          e87?  UEVATION
U,            AR                                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 000 FEET 12744 METERS)
6,TT0 FEET (91829 METEES)
Fit.                                                                                                                                                     3,000 rEET 1 5 METERS)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTFET(95MEES
Poohoto  CON  1R  rN b49   bN 
0    SELECTED TOWNS
(j3  PROVINCE CAPITALS
IS  A0                                                                                                                                                                                                                    *    NATIONAL CAPITAL
-NPAN-AMERICAN HIGHWAT
S..t-                                                                                                                                        OTHER MAIN ROADS
SECONDART ROADS
RAILROADS
MEXICO  7                                                                                                                                     PROVINCE P  tOLUNDARIET
Sk~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CONSERVATION AREAS
RIVERS
A   C  I F t C  0   C  EAN  ~          ~          ~          Poi.wpo                    ./'5:                                                              ,INTERNATIONAL BOUNcDARIES
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  / >
THE BARAMAS~Z~W>ttJ/ANM
EL SALVADOfLR  FICsARAOVA           _n      ,        $<r                                                                                                              -- . N'.    -- ,-.                       fco,oo o8sco,co,ooo,r9o0FrorIhoco9oo,,ooceo o(ho,oder,
MEXICOR%AMA                    f               LTLLJ7
COStA~~          ~~                     ~ R1   EltUL                          I          LD0       -7                                         >     S                              i>j>.           Ths oLo,,oore rodlor' d,o ohe,cor,osogd onyoAher,,,form oooooho,o,
P A CItfI/C                    i? COOM  Ao -~                                                                                                                                                                      h,  .fES      odg pdi  ocoeglt,op   of Aonperooo(h yWor  edBorIemDro o,
C)o~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
, SIA N                        C,-M  A                                 _                                                                                      )B                                             Ad,ro Zh ogI,rLoo(rgI.orooorOoooerlo
STA  A,  VE BIEZUFLACK                         84'50   71
MOMTERS                                                                 T6 b-d.-,                                   h-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FRRAT  9



