Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7068-CR
Project Agreement
(Health Sector Strengthening and Modernization Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CAJA COSTARRICENSE DE SEGURO SOCIAL
Dated August 23, 2001 
LOAN NUMBER 7068-CR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 23, 2001 , between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CAJA COSTARRICENSE DE SEGURO SOCIAL (CCSS).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of 
Costa Rica (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to seventeen million Dollars ($17,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that CCSS agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and CCSS, 
the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available 
to CCSS on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS CCSS, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Page  2
Section 2.01. CCSS declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate health, 
technical, administrative, financial, educational, engineering and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) CCSS shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, CCSS shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and CCSS, a plan for the future operation of the 
Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
CCSS on said plan.
Section 2.04. CCSS shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary  
Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CCSS shall not take or concur in 
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning, waiving or 
failing to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. CCSS shall: (a) at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters 
related to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens 
to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the Loan, or the performance by CCSS of its obligations under this Agreement and under 
the Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) CCSS shall carry out the Project in accordance with a manual 
(the Operational Manual), acceptable to the Bank, said manual to include, inter alia: 
(a) the procurement, financial management, and administrative  guidelines to be 
followed during Project implementation by CCSS; (b) the guidelines for the preparation 
of Annual Action Plans referred to in Section 2.07 of this Agreement; and (c) the 
eligibility criteria for sub-projects and selection mechanisms.
(b)
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
those of this Agreement or the Loan Agreement, the terms of this Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement shall prevail.
Section 2.07. CCSS shall: (a) not later than December 31 of each year of Project 
implementation, starting in year 2001, furnish to the Bank, for its approval, an 
annual action plan, each said plan to include, inter alia: (i) the Project activities 
to be carried out by CCSS during the calendar year following the presentation of each 
said plan; and (ii) the procurement plan and disbursement schedule for each said 
Project activities; and (b) thereafter implement each said Annual Action Plan in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 2.08. CCSS shall: (a) operate and maintain at all times during Project 
implementation, a project coordination unit (the PCU) with a structure, functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia, the responsibility of 
the PCU to coordinate, monitor and supervise the carrying out of the Project; and
(b)
ensure that the PCU is, at all times during Project implementation, 
headed by an Executive Director and a financial and administrative director, assisted 
by adequate professional and administrative staff, contracted under terms of reference 
Page  3
acceptable to the Bank. 
Section 2.09. CCSS shall: 
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objective thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, each June 15 and December 15 during Project implementation, starting with 
the report due not later than June 15, 2002, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
calendar semester preceding the date of presentation of the report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof during the following calendar semester; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by December 15 of every two years of Project 
implementation, or such later date as the Bank shall request, starting in year 2002, 
the pertinent reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and thereafter 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
said reports and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 2.10. For implementation of a Subproject, CCSS shall make a grant 
allocation to the unit within CCSS responsible for the carrying out of said 
Subproject. 
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CCSS
Section 3.01. CCSS shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound health, technical, administrative, financial, educational, 
engineering, and  environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. CCSS shall at all times operate and maintain its buildings, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative, 
engineering, financial and health care practices.
Section 3.03. CCSS shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  CCSS shall maintain within the PCU a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in 
accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
adequate to reflect CCSS’ operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
CCSS shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements), 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and the report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  4
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement, CCSS shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank 
for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) 
of said Section 4.01 in order to enable CCSS, not later than May 31, 2002, or such 
later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and applications of funds 
for the Project for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; and
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and
(B)
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, CCSS shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of CCSS 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify CCSS thereof.
Section 5.03. All this provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
Page  5
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For CCSS:
Caja Costarricense de
Seguro Social
Proyecto de Modernización
Edificio María Cecilia
Cuarto Piso
Calles 5 y 7
Avenida 1
San José, Costa Rica 
Facsimile:
(506) 
256-3959
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CCSS may be 
taken or executed by the President of CCSS or such other person or persons as she or 
he shall designate in writing, and CCSS shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence 
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CAJA COSTARRICENSE DE SEGURO SOCIAL
By /s/ Juan C. Sánchez Arguedas
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Page  6
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of  shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Direct Contracting
Software licenses up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, 
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,350,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of the Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods or works to be awarded under Part 
B.1 of this Section; and (ii) each contract for works to be awarded under Part A.3 (b) 
of the Project and estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or more, and for goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
Page  7
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Consultant’s services (for Subprojects) estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount of $5,700,000 equivalent may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Consultant’s services (other than for Subprojects) estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount of $180,000 may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Consultant’s services, as approved by the Bank, for tasks that meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $625,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
Page  8
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
