Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7068-CR
Loan Agreement
(Health Sector Strengthening and Modernization Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 23, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7068-CR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 23, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project) has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS (B) the Project will be carried out by Caja Costarricense de Seguro 
Social (CCSS) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan) available to CCSS, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and CCSS;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Ambulatory Care Subproject" means any of the investments referred to in 
Part A.3 (b) of the Project; 
(b)
"Annual Action Plan" means any of the plans referred to in Section 2.07 
of the Project Agreement;
(c)
"Deconcentration Subproject" means any of the investments referred to in 
Part A.3 (a) of the Project;
(d)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
Table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(e)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works, and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(f)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from CCSS 
to the Bank setting forth the Project monitoring indicators referred to in Section 
2.09 of the Project Agreement;
(g)
"Law No. 17" means the Borrower’s Ley Número 17: Ley Constitutiva de la 
Caja Costarricense de Seguro Social, dated October 22, 1943, which established the 
legal framework for the operations of CCSS;  
(h)
"Law No. 7852" means  the Borrower’s Ley Número 7852: Ley de 
Desconcentración de los Hospitales y Clínicas de la Caja Costarricense de Seguro 
Social, dated November 30, 1998, which established the legal framework for CCSS’ 
deconcentration reform;
(i)
"Law No. 7983" means the Borrower’s Ley Número 7983: Ley de Protección al 
Trabajador, dated January 24, 2000, which established the new legal system for 
collection of social security contributions from employers and employees;
(j)
"MH" means Ministerio de Salud, the Borrower’s Ministry of Health; 
(k) 
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 2.06 (a) of 
the Project Agreement;
(l)
"PCU" means the unit referred to in Section 2.08 (a) of the Project 
Agreement;
(m)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and CCSS of even 
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Bank and CCSS, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreement;
(n)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section  4.02 (a) of the Project Agreement;
(o)
"Second-Phase Health Sector Reforms" means a set of actions and policies 
designed to increase the access of the Costa Rican population to health care services 
and improve the efficiency, effectiveness and quality of said health care services 
delivered by CCSS;
(p)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(q)
"Subproject" means either an Ambulatory Care Subproject (as defined 
herein) and/or a Deconcentration Subproject (as defined herein); and
(r)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and CCSS pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to CCSS.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to seventeen 
million Dollars ($17,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works, and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 
of this Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General 
Conditions.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower  of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in the amount 
of one hundred seventy thousand Dollars ($170,000). The Borrower agrees that on or 
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period 
at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate 
to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions 
of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless otherwise notified by the Borrower 
in accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each 
Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for 
Page  4
the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(d)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium 
be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any 
premium payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to 
the amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the Table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause CCSS to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of CCSS therein set forth, 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable CCSS to 
perform such obligations and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall onlend the proceeds of the Loan to CCSS under a 
subsidiary agreement (the Subsidiary Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and CCSS, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which may 
include, inter alia, at the Borrower’s option and without limitation to the Borrower’s 
obligations under this Agreement, the delegation to CCSS to:
(i)
operate the Special Account in a manner acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
maintain the records and accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (a) 
of this Agreement; and
(iii)
carry out the actions referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this 
Agreement,
as an agent of the Borrower for the sole purpose of facilitating the Borrower’s 
compliance with the Borrower’s obligations under this Agreement. 
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not take or concur in any action which 
would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating, waiving or failing to 
enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the  
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03.  The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports,  maintenance and land acquisition, respectively), shall be carried out by 
CCSS pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain in accordance with sound accounting practices, records 
and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
Page  5
retained until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made;  including as part of the information 
to be provided in each such report, a management letter concerning 
the Borrower’s internal controls; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the Project Management 
Reports or statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
CCSS shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that CCSS will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)
Law No. 17 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to, in the opinion of the Bank affect,  materially 
and adversely the ability of CCSS to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(d)
Law No. 7852 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to, in the opinion of the Bank, affect materially 
and adversely the ability of CCSS to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement; and
(e)
Law No. 7983 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to, in the opinion of the Bank, affect materially 
and adversely the ability of CCSS to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
(b)
Any of the events specified in paragraphs (c) , (d) or (e) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Page  6
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
CCSS;
(b)
CCSS shall have established a financial management system to the 
satisfaction of the Bank;
(c)
CCSS shall have adopted the Operational Manual in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank;
(d)
the independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of the 
Project Agreement and Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement have been employed by 
CCSS as provided in said Section of the Project Agreement and by the Borrower (or CCSS 
on the Borrower’s behalf) as provided in said Section of this Agreement; and
(e)
CCSS has adopted the Annual Action Plan for the year 2002, satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by CCSS, 
and is legally binding upon CCSS in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and CCSS and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CCSS in accordance with 
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date November 21, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Avenida 2, Calles 1 y 3
San José, Costa Rica
Facsimile:
(506) 255-4874
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  7
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
By /s/ Laura Dachner
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
  (Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods (except
  1,500,000
60%
as covered by
Category (4)
below)
(2)
Consultants'
   6,000,000
75%
services and
audits (except
as covered by 
Category (4) 
below)
(3)
Training (except as
   1,300,000
75%
covered by
Category (4)
below)
(4) Subprojects
(a)
Goods, works,    4,000,000
75%
consultants’ services
and/or training for
Deconcentration
Subprojects
(b)
Goods, works,
consultants’ services
and/or training for 
Ambulatory Care
   2,500,000
70%
Subprojects
(5)
Fee
     170,000
Amount due 
pursuant to 
Page  8
Section 2.04
of this Agreement
(6)
Premia for Interest
  0
Amount due
Rate Caps and Interest
pursuant to 
Rate Collars
Section 2.09 (d)
of this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
   1,530,000
TOTAL
  17,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term "training" means reasonable expenditures (other than those for 
consultants’ services) incurred by the Borrower to finance transportation costs, 
per-diem of trainees, rental of training facilities, training materials and equipment 
required for training activities under the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,700,000 equivalent, 
may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the Table in paragraph 1 
of Part A of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after May 21, 2001.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under contracts for goods costing 
less than $150,000 equivalent per contract and works costing less than $350,000 
equivalent per contract; (b) under contracts for the employment of consultants’ 
services of firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (c) under 
contracts for the employment of individual consultant services costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract; and (d) for training as set forth in Category (3) of 
the Table in paragraph 1 of Part A of this Schedule, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit 
account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement; and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower 
for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
Page  9
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of the 
Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means the 
amount of $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount of $750,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the amount of 
$4,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
Page  10
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to said 
Categories, shall equal twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan 
allocated to said Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2. 
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed  $3,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the implementation of  Costa Rica’s 
Second-Phase Health Sector Reforms. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Policy Design and Implementation
1.
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the institutional capacity of CCSS and 
MH to improve the provision of health services through, inter alia: (a) the carrying 
out of studies to improve the organizational, legal and regulatory framework of said 
institutions; (b) the provision of technical assistance and/or training to said 
institutions’ staff required therefore; (c) carrying out of seminars and workshops and 
study tours in Costa Rica and abroad with respect to health sector reform; and (d) the 
acquisition and utilization of goods required therefore.
Page  11
2. 
Provision of support for CCSS’ deconcentration initiatives as provided by Law 
No. 7852 through, inter alia: (a) the design and implementation of a deconcentration 
program; (b) the design and implementation of a program to improve and promote 
ambulatory health care services; (c) the strengthening of CCSS’ systems used for the 
planning, procurement and distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies; and 
(d) the strengthening of CCSS’ programs through which CCSS contracts the delivery of 
health care services with public and other entities. 
3.
Carrying out of investments for purposes: (a) of improving the managerial 
capacity of CCSS’ health care facilities; and (b) of promoting, expanding and/or 
improving CCSS’ ambulatory health care services.
4.
Carrying out of a program  to strengthen CCSS’ resource allocation and payment 
mechanisms to health care service providers through, inter alia: (a) the carrying out 
of studies to: (i) improve the criteria for the allocation of resources and the 
targeting of public subsidies to CCSS’ beneficiaries; and (ii) establish new payment 
mechanisms for health care service providers; (b) the introduction of new 
reimbursement mechanisms for CCSS’ hospitals; and (c) seminars, study tours and 
workshops to support implementation of resource allocation mechanisms and to exchange 
experiences with other health systems.
Part B:
Monitoring and Evaluation and Project Management 
1.
(a) Design and implementation of a program to monitor  and evaluate the carrying 
out of the Project; and (b) strengthening of the operational capacity of the PCU to 
assist CCSS in the coordination, monitoring and supervision of the Project.
2.
Carrying out of information, education and communication campaigns to promote 
the benefits of the Second-Phase Health Sector Reforms among the Costa Rican 
population, including health sector workers.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 2008
through March 15, 2016
6,25%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the Table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Page  12
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a currency Conversion applies. 
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.
