Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23419
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26340)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
FOR A
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
JANUARY 15, 2002
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 2002)
Currency Unit = Som
1 Som = US$ 0.02
US$ 1 = 47.7 Som
FISCAL YEAR
January I   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMPS                        Advanced Mobile Phone System
CIS                         Commonwealth of Independent States
EBRD                        European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ERR                         Economic Rate of Retum
GNP                         Gross National Product
GSM                         Global System for Mobile Comnunications
ICC                         Intemational Chamber of Commerce
ICT                         Information and Communications Technologies
IDA                         Intemational Development Association
IFC                         Intemational Finance Corporation
IRR                         Internal Rate of Return
ISP                         Internet Service Provider
KT                          KyrgyzTelecom
MoTC                        Ministry of Transport and Communications
NCA                         National Communications Agency
PDH                         Plesiochronous Digital Hierarchy
PPF                         Project Preparation Facility
PIU                         Project Implementation Unit
QAG                         Quality Assurance Group
RPO RMTR                    Republican Production Amalgamation of Microwave
Links, Television and Radio Broadcasting
SAR                         Staff Appraisal Report
SDH                         Synchronous Digital Hierarchy
SDR                         Special Drawing Rights
SES                         Standard A Earth Satellite Station
SPF                         State Property Fund
SRFC                        State Radio Frequency Commission
TA                          Technical Assistance
TAE                         Trans Asia-Europe
TORs                        Terms of Reference
WTO                         World Trade Organization
Vice President:  Johannes Linn
Country Manager:    Dennis de Tray
Sector Manager:   Pierre Guislain
Task Team Leader:    Svetoslav Tintchev



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                10
6. Sustainability                                                                   11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   14
9. Partner Comments                                                                  14
10. Additional Informnation                                                         16
Annex 1. Key Performnance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008518                                      Project Name: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Team Leader: Svetoslav K. Tintchev                       TL Unit: CITPO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: January 15, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: TELECOMMUNICATIONS                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-26340
Country/Department: KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                                    Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: CC - Telecommunications & Informatics
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   08/26/1993                            Effective: 02/01/1995         02/01/1995
Appraisal:  06/03/1994                               MTR:                      03/16/1998
Approval:  06/23/1994                             Closing: 06/30/2001          06/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF KYRGYZ REPUBLIC/MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND
COMUNICATIONS
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                         Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Dennis de Tray                           Russell Cheetham
Sector Manager:      Pierre Guislain                          Jonathan Brown
Team Leader at ICR:  Svetoslav Tintchev                       Ann Ishee
ICR Primary Author:  Svetoslav Tintchev; Anupama
Dokeniya; Kashmira Daruwalla;
Mather B. Pfeiffenberger
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L--Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The US$18 million IDA Telecommunications Credit to the Kyrgyz Republic was intended to fulfill the



objectives of the Kyrgyz Government to modernize the telecommunications network and introduce sector
reform. The main objectives were to assist the government to:
(a) Make priority replacement/expansion investments in the telecommunications network to facilitate
growth and improve quality of service;
(b) Build the institutional capacity of the main telecommunications operator, particularly management
and financial analysis skills, and commercialize and corporatize communication activities; and
(c) Establish a regulatory and policy framework for the restructuring of the telecommunications sector.
aimed at liberalizing and attracting private investment to the sector.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The components of the project followed from the government's three-phase strategy for the development of
the ICT sector, and were intended to fulfill specifically the goals of the second phase. Several reform
measures were already undertaken under Phase 1. Under Phase 1, the govemment improved sector
finances and stabilized existing network operations with the support of an IDA Rehabilitation Credit
(Credit 2491-KG, approved on May 13, 1993). International call charges were raised to world price levels
First steps towards restructuring the national operator were taken in 1993, with the establishment of three
independent associations: KyrgyzTelecom (KT), the broadcasting corporation, RPO RMTR, and the postal
department, Kyrgyzpochtasy. In February 1994, telecommunications regulatory and policy functions were
split from operations, with KyrgyzTelecom being in charge of the latter.
In the second phase, the government had the following main objectives: (a) fulfilling demand from priority
subscribers to promote economic growth in other sectors; (b) introducing further market-oriented sector
reform, particularly with respect to cost recovery; and (c) promoting institutional development of the main
telecommunications operator to ensure it is operated commercially. The IDA Telecommunications Credit
was intended to fulfill the objectives of this second phase. Advances under the second phase would lead to
the longer-term Phase 3 goals of liberalization and sector reform beyond the project. The three main
project components are described below.
A:     Rehabilitation/Expansion of the Telecommunications Network:
The project supported investment to relieve bottlenecks in the system, especially for businesses, to
modernize the national and international networks, and improve international access and overall service
quality. It aimed to implement a digital overlay network of 40,000 new telephone lines in high priority
demand areas, based on the following rationale: The existing 333,000 analog lines were completely
depreciated. At then prevailing tariffs, KyrgyzTelecom received only around USS17 per line per year,
compared with US$300 to US$500 per line needed to maintain the network based on global experience.
Under the new tariff system, customers of the existing analog network would continue paying very small
rates for local and domestic long distance calls, while the priority customers of the new digital network
would pay international rates, related to the investment and maintenance costs of the digital network. The
specific physical infrastructure investment components involved:
* Digital exchanges (financed by IDA credit): Implementation of a new international exchange in
- 2 -



Bishkek, with a total capacity of 1000 trunks. Upgrading of local exchanges in Bishkek, Osh,
Jalal-Abad, Cholpon-Ata, Karakol, Narin, and Talas, for 43,000 telephone lines.
* Outside plant and fiber optic transmission systems (financed by IDA credit): Upgrading/expansion of
the cable network in the cities with new exchanges for 60% of the capacity of the new exchanges (or
about 26,000 lines). Upgrading/expansion of the inter-exchange circuit capacity in the cities of
Bishkek, Osh, Jalal-Abad, Narin, and Talas, through installing fiber-optic cables. Upgrading of
multiplex equipment to interconnect transmission links to exchanges in about 5000 channels.
*   Standard A Earth Satellite Station (financed by EBRD cofinancing credit)
* Digital microwave transmission systems (financed by EBRD credit): Upgrading and expansion of long
distance transmission facilities through the installation of digital microwave links between Bishkek and
Osh, Jalal-Abad, Karakol, Narin, and Talas.
B:     Institutional Development:
The second component focused on building the institutional capacity of KyrgyzTelecom, strengthening its
commercial autonomy and accountability, and building management and planning capabilities. The main
elements of the institutional development program were the following:
(i) Licensing KyrgyzTelecom to provide local, long distance, and intemational telecommunication services
(by June 30, 1995). Preparing a new law elaborating the legal framework for the license conditions.
(ii) Strengthening the commercial autonomy and accountability ofKyrgyzTelecom through: (a) improving
quality, cost, and efficiency of services; (b) introducing a performance-based incentive program; (c)
subcontracting and/or divesting activities to the private sector, including installation of customer premise
equipment and building construction; (d) building financial viability through tariff and international
account settlement reform, better financial management, and controls (particularly audits), a commercial
accounting system following international standards, and a new billing system; and (e) providing KT
autonomy in staffing and salary issues. To achieve these objectives, the project provided for training in
management, planning, finance and accounting, marketing and customer service, engineering, and human
resource development for telecommunications staff, both at the Ministry of Transport and Communications
(MoTC) and KT. KT was required not to make any transfers to the postal department either directly or
through the MoTC and to furnish to IDA information of such transfers made during 1994. KT was also
required to submit to IDA audited reports for each fiscal year. Finally, KT was required to furnish 100% of
its annual capital expenditures from internal resources and to maintain an adequately staffed Project
Implementation Unit (PIU).
(iii) Providing management information systems: Reviewing management and operational computerization
requirements and introducing new computerized, commercial billing, accounting and financial management
systems, a management information system, and a network planning system. Providing technical assistance
to finance preparation of detailed engineering documents and bidding specifications.
C:     Sector Restructuring:
In 1994, restructuring and private participation in the telecommunications sector was at an incipient stage.
The sector restructuring strategy envisaged under the project consisted of the following elements:
(i) Drafting of a new Telecommunications Law and new regulations and submitting the Law to
Parliament.
-3 -



(ii) Promoting private sector participation and competition in the telecommunications sector, including, as
appropriate, partial or full liberalization of non-basic telecommunications market segments. This included
actions on introducing competition in public payphone and e-mail services markets and evaluating
opportunities for private investment in basic telecommunications and in KyrgyzTelecom. KT was required
to prepare and submit to IDA a plan evaluating private investment opportunities in KT.
(iii) Separation of regulatory, policy, and operationalfunctions: A telecoms regulator, separate from the
policy-making function, would be established with the following functions: (a) setting tariffs; (b) drafting
licenses on behalf of the Ministry; (c) monitoring operator performance and adherence to licenses; (d)
advising and arbitrating on interconnection arrangements; (e) ensuring that telecommunications equipment
conformed to intemational technical standards; and (f) managing radio frequency allocation and
assignment. MoTC would continue to be responsible for telecommunications policy. Its responsibilities
would include advising on the appointment of regulators, representing the Government of Kyrgyz at the
intemational level, managing legislative matters when changes were required, and issuing licenses. An IDA
Project Preparation Facility grant of US$450,000 was provided to assist the MoTC in finalizing the sector
restructuring plan, preparing procurement documents, and evaluating investment proposals.
KyrgyzTelecom would be in charge of the operational function. Technical assistance was also provided to
help in establishing policy and regulatory capabilities and in corporatizing and comnmercializing KT.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised.
3.5 Qu2ality at Entry:
Quality at entry is considered to be satisfactory based on the following criteria:
* The objectives of the project were closely linked to the government's objectives, which aimed to
stabilize the operations of the existing network and to ensure that demand from businesses and other
priority subscribers was met, that telecommunications services were efficient and affordable, that
customer choice on services was extended, and, in the long term, competitively priced, and that
reasonable quality services were provided to meet demand fully.
* The project was responsive and cognizant of the institutional capacity of the country. The government
had already undertaken some key reform measures (as outlined above) that made it possible for the
project to further these goals.
*   Significant technical assistance was provided to support project objectives. The Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) provided assistance to MoTC to design and implement both the reform program and new
licenses.
*   The project provided for measures to mitigate risks to sector development. To mitigate the risk of
losing qualified telecommunications managers and technical staff due to uncompetitive compensation,
the project included agreements for KyrgyzTelecom's commercial autonomy and its authority to set
competitive salaries. While the project called for tariff reform to reduce the risk of high inflation and
ensure financial viability, it required that tariff reforms for international calls and calls to countries
within the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) be indexed to the US dollar.
-4 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's outcome was satisfactory. Almost all the objectives were achieved. In the investment
component, 130,000 digital lines were installed and 60,000 analog lines were phased out, bringing the total
number of new lines installed to 70,000. This significantly improved the capacity of the overall network.
Other significant network extension activities were undertaken, providing better services to both high
priority as well as residential users.
At the same time, the technical assistance and funding provided under the project enabled the Government
of Kyrgyz to undertake far-reaching reforms and institutional changes. A new Telecommunications Law
was presented to Parliament and passed. Steps were taken to strengthen and commercialize
KyrgyzTelecom, making it a viable entity for privatization. An independent regulatory authority, separate
from the ministry, was set up. In addition to Katel, a joint venture between KyrgyzTelecom and an
American company (Tk Tel), a second mobile license was granted to Bitel.
The project proved to be a catalyst for a broader reform agenda going beyond its original objectives and
components, in response to significant structural changes in the sector over the project's seven-year period.
Bank advice was crucial in many initiatives, including starting the privatization process, introducing
competition in the ISP and cellular segments, and taking the first steps towards a national ICT strategy
through mobilizing trust funds to finance a technical assistance study.
The legal/regulatory reform aspects of the project contributed very significantly to the successful accession
of the Kyrgyz Republic to the WTO. While the new telecoms law and regulatory framework predated the
country's WTO accession, Bank advice on the draft law was directed at making the law "WTO-compliant",
so that at the time of WTO accession, no further work on implementing the national legal framework in
telecoms would be necessary. The Kyrgyz Republic was the first country of the former Soviet Union to
join the WTO, and the success in legal/regulatory reform with this project contributed in large measure to
that fact.
4.2 Outputs bv components:
A:     Rehabilitation/Expansion of the Telecommunications Network
The quality of telecommunications service before the project was quite poor: there were huge waiting lists,
the majority of outgoing intemational traffic was handled through operator-assisted calls via Moscow or
Ankara which took 3 to 10 hours to place, and incoming calls were also routed through those gateways.
The project helped KT achieve better quality telecommunications services and international access, meeting
business as well as residential customer demand and contributing to economic growth and improvements in
delivery of basic social services.
The physical investment program was fully carried out, and in some instances, exceeded. KyrgyzTelecom
invested considerably in telecommunications infrastructure build-out, including construction of technical
buildings, restoration and construction of towers and masts, repair of existing technical buildings, and
preparation of ducts for cable installation. In accordance with project objectives, an Earth Satellite Station
was put into operation. A total of 23 microwave (radio relay) stations were constructed under the project.
- 5 -



An international switch with a capacity of 2700 lines and digital exchanges with total capacity of 54,000
lines were installed, exceeding project requirements. A total of 23 digital exchanges were put into operation
under the contract with Ericsson. The installation of outside plant and a fiber-optic network considerably
improved the status of the KyrgyzTelecom outside plant.
As mentioned above, a total of 130,000 new digital lines were added, while 60,000 analog lines were
phased out, resulting in a net increase of 70,000 lines. An interface between analog and digital exchanges
was provided. The average telephone density or penetration reached 16.5% in urban areas and 2.86% in
rural areas, for a total of 7.70 %.
B:     Institutional Development
(i) Licensing and corporatizing the new telecommunications entity: According to Decree No. 280 of May
15, 1997, KyrgyzTelecom, till then a state-owned enterprise, was converted into a joint-stock company.
Licenses were awarded to it to provide local, long distance, and international service exclusively until
January 1, 2003.
(ii) Strengthening of the commercial autonomy and accountability of KyrgyzTelecom: Consulting
services were provided to KyrgyzTelecom to develop an organizational and strategic plan, improve the
finance and accounting departments, and revise existing accounting standards for further development of
payment system. A total of 102 professionals completed training in various subjects such as Satellite
Communication Systems, Digital Radio Relay Systems, Digital Switching Exchanges, Outside Plant, Fiber
Optic Systems and SDH Equipment. Training was also provided to KyrgyzTelecom officials in such areas
as English, computers, accounting, finance, marketing, and other commercial disciplines. A workshop on
financial management and customer care was held in October 1995 with the participation of MoTC and KT
management. Institution building and commercialization of KT resulted in greater cost recovery, improved
financial viability, more efficient operations, and improved quality and selection of services.
(iii) Providing information systems: A billing system was developed with Sun Microsystems server and
Oracle software. Training was provided for the use of this system. A pilot project was launched to simulate
the real system and test its effectiveness. The data transmission network structure for the billing system
was also developed.
C:     Sector Restructuring
(i) Drafting of a new telecommunications law and new regulations: The project funded consultants to
draft the new telecommunications law. The Telecommunications and Postal Law was adopted by the
Legislative Assembly on March 6, 1998.  In drafting the Law, MoTC took into account the
recommnendations and comments of EBRD and World Bank experts. The Law establishes the legal
principles for telecommunications network operation and service provision, sets the tenns of reference for
state executive bodies authorized to regulate services, and establishes the basis for service licenses. It also
determines the rights and duties of legal and physical entities, both service providers (including KT) and
users. The Law also included provisions for the corporatization and privatization of KyrgyzTelecom, price
and tariff regulation, and the establishment of an independent regulating body.
(ii) Promoting private sector participation and competition: The initial objectives of the project on
private participation were limited to promoting private participation in general terms. However, the project
- 6 -



proved catalytic in effecting reforms beyond the initial limited objectives. World Bank staff provided
advice and assistance on key liberalization measures such as liberalization of the cellular market and
privatization of the incumbent KT. The cellular segment was opened up and there are now two cellular
mobile operators: the KyrgyzTelecom-Tk Tel joint venture, Katel, providing AMPS standard services, and
Bitel, providing GSM standard cellular communication. The Internet service provider (ISP) segment was
also liberalized, and there are currently eleven ISPs.
To foster competition, amendments were brought to the telecommunications legislation to reduce KT's
license exclusivity period in the basic, long distance, and international fixed segments to January 1, 2003
(reduced from 2008), which is in accordance with the commitment submitted by the government for WTO
accession. In addition, in order to promote fair competition amendments were enacted providing that if a
new cellular license was tendered with KT's assets during KT's privatization, it would require a separate
legal entity to be created in order to ensure equal terms of access to the existing fixed network by all
licensed mobile operators. IDA emphasized during its supervision missions that equal and transparent
treatment should be provided to all mobile service providers, particularly on direct international access.
Significant first steps towards KT's privatization were taken, including hiring consulting services and
elaboration of the privatization program. While IDA and EBRD offered to finance technical assistance for
privatization, the government decided to do this on its own. Some of KT's shares were divested according
to the following specifications: 5% distributed to staff at no charge; 1% reserved for KT management at
nominal cost; 3.65% sold on coupon auction; and 12.5 1% transferred to the Social Fund. While 77.84% of
shares were retained by the government, the sale of 40% (later increased to 51%) to a strategic investor on
an open tender basis was expected to be completed in 2000.
The privatization process, however, has run into some significant difficulties. First, the government set
many terms and conditions that were not conducive to the successful sale of KT's assets. It set a minimum
price of US$150 million, which was a significant overvaluation of KT. The tenders also required an
investment commitment of US$400 million and had unattractive conditions, such as not giving the buyer
full management control. The market did not respond favorably to these conditions, and in the first
tendering for KT's assets in November 1999 no compliant bids were received.
At the request of the State Property Fund (SPF), IDA sent comments on the draft Information
Memorandum for the privatization transaction, pointing out the key requirements to assure potential
investor interest. The Bank supervision team advised the govermnent to eliminate both the minimum price
and the investment plan for KT amounting to US$400 million over the next 10 years. The Bank was
successful in persuading the government to reconsider these conditions and make a realistic valuation of the
company. After the October 2000 mission, SPF confirmed that the Bank's recormmendations on
privatization had been accepted, including: elimination of the US$150 million minimum price; no obligation
for an unrealistic investment commitment of USS400 million; agreeing to sale of a new GSM license in
package with KT shares; and full management control to the strategic investor. In addition, SPF announced
that 51% of KT shares (instead of 40%) would be offered for sale to a strategic investor. Such an increase
(coming from the remaining 78% of state-owned shares) would necessitate certain additional procedural
and legal steps to be undertaken by the government and Parliament.
While these conditions have been dropped to make privatization a more feasible proposition, a conflict on
consulting fees between SPF and the privatization advisor has further stalled the process. This is a serious
roadblock to the continuation of the reform process. The supervision team has emphasized that the next
step in the privatization process (second invitation to bidders to submit proposals) should be performned
only with properly updated tender documents and in a fully transparent way, so as not to provoke tender
- 7-



fatigue and discourage investors.
During the project cycle, KT rebalanced tariffs, increasing local and national long distance and decreasing
international tariffs. This had a positive effect on its financial performance. The Bank supervision team
advised the government that any assessments of KT's value by the bidders would be directly affected by a
clear and predictable tariff framework, and that the tariff rebalancing plan would be of key importance to
any potential tender participant and should be included in updated tender documents. The Bank also
advised the government that the option it had adopted of excluding any tariff information/commitment from
the privatization process added a risk to potential investors, which would lead to fewer or no offers. KT
finally agreed to add to the tendering package of its shares a next-step rebalancing of tariffs along with a
clear tariff policy for the next 8 - 10 years.
Due to changes in the status of the regulator in January 2001 (as discussed below), and its curtailed powers
over the tariff structure, the last tariff rebalancing did not take place in March 2001 as envisaged. The
implementation of the rebalancing plan remains an important prerequisite for the privatization of KT, and
delays might have a negative impact on its overall financial performance.
(iii) Separation of regulatory and policy functions: Substantial sector reforms were implemented. The
enactment of telecommunications legislation and the creation of an independent sector regulatory agency,
the National Communications Agency (NCA), in 1997 with full financial independence, were among the
first steps in telecoms restructuring among CIS countries. The State Radio Frequency Commission (SRFC)
was also established to coordinate the activity of ministries and agencies involved with frequency
allocation, to develop recommendations, procedures, and rules for frequency allocation, and to plan and
create the National Frequency Assignment Table. Training was provided to the regulatory agency to build
capacity.
The independence and powers of the regulatory agency were threatened in January 2001, when it was
brought under the control of the ministry and some of its functions were curtailed, including approving
tariff rebalancing and changes in staffing and management. While its status as an independent agency was
restored in March 2001, it still does not have oversight over the tariff rebalancing, which requires the
authorization of the Ministry of Finance. In addition, the agency still reports to the President, but its
relation to the Council of Ministers is not very clear.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project had a beneficial economic impact. The increase in telecommunications capacity, especially in
improved access for priority and business consumers, had a positive upward impact on businesses.
Liberalization in the telecoms sector resulted in private participation and investmnent in the cellular and ISP
segments. This led to the introduction of a competitive environment, as well as a greater choice of services
and providers for consumers. Greater investment in these segments also had positive employment benefits.
The SAR had calculated the economic rate of return (ERR) as being above 37%, but at project end the
ERR was calculated as exceeding this at 42.57%.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
'The Financial Covenant required KT to achieve the following ratio: After Tax Profit + Depreciation to
Total Debt Service > or = 1.5. The project consistently met this financial covenant. The Debt Service
Ratio was 2.69 in 1998, and 1.67 in 1999.
- 8 -



KT also agreed that, subject to an annual review, telecommunications operations would generate adequate
internal funds to finance 100% of the local costs required for annual capital expenditures. It met its intemal
revenue generation requirements, which consistently exceeded the total local investment.
The project's financial rate of return was measured using an incremental cash flow approach, since KT's
ongoing operations and the project combined rehabilitation and expansion elements. The Staff Appraisal
Report projected a ten-year financial internal rate of return (IRR) of 23%. Financial benefits were expected
from increased traffic generated by the increase in and improvements to network performance and capacity.
At the end of the project period, the financial IRR was calculated to be 30.51%.
KT derived financial benefits from rebalancing in tariffs as envisaged under the project. During the
implementation of the project, the government approved and began implementing an aggressive tariff
rebalancing plan. It included considerable rebalancing for domestic long distance and monthly rental fees.
In 1997, a new tariff structure was approved and became effective in January 1998, resulting in a 50%
increase in tariffs for long distance calls. After October 1, 1998, tariffs increased again by 50%. Moreover,
the tariffs for intemational calls were set in US dollars to avoid the negative impact of inflation on KT's
income. This action coincided with Som to Dollar exchange rate slump; therefore the actual tariff increase
was more than 50%. The company's income analysis for November 1998 showed that the change in tariffs
combined with the exchange rate change of 47.6% increased KT's income by 48.8%. However, due to the
turmoil regarding the status of NCA during the first quarter of 2001, the last tariff adjustment agreed with
IDA/EBRD was not approved in March 2001.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a significant institutional development impact. It started the process of reform in the
telecommunications sector in the Kyrgyz Republic and prepared the sector for competition through
introducing some key elements in the legal and regulatory framework. Most significantly, reform measures
in the telecommunications sector were an important component in instituting the liberalization agenda in the
government as a whole, and in reorienting the institutional capacity of the government to function in a
market-driven economy.
The independent regulatory agency NCA was set up in 1997. Significant expertise was built in the agency
through technical assistance and training. Prior to January 2001, the structure of the NCA was in
compliance with the requirements needed by an independent regulator. However, its independence was
threatened in January 2001 as the result of a decree issued in December 2000 which downgraded NCA to a
department reporting to MoTC. The government will have to recommit fully to NCA's independence in
order to sustain the reform agenda.
KyrgyzTelecom was also restructured and organized on commercial principles, in order to make its
remaining 78% state-owned shares attractive to potential investors for privatization, and to make it a viable
competitor to additional service providers such as the two private cellular operators, Katel and Bitel. KT
staff were trained in a number of technical, managerial, and organizational areas. Consultancies on finance
and accounting operations, tariff and settlement agreements, and tender evaluations enabled KT to develop
these areas. To carry out the evaluation of bids for supplying the physical components, KT created four
evaluation commissions. IDA and EBRD agreed that the evaluation was objective and performed on a high
professional level and in compliance with the two Banks' procedures. This was evidence of KT's improved
capabilities.
-9-



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Opening up of the sector globally certainly had a strong catalytic impact on reform measures in the Kyrgyz
Republic. Participating in the global economy necessitated reforming the sector and providing the necessary
legal, regulatory, and institutional framework to attract investment.
The financial crisis facing CIS countries in 1998 threatened macroeconomic stability in general and had a
deleterious impact on settlement rates. But because the settlements covenant was set in dollar terms, it
avoided the worst impact of the crisis.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The government's commitment had a positive impact on the early phases of the reform process. Its
willingness to implement a tariff rebalancing plan was very important in rationalizing the sector and
making services more affordable. In addition, its readiness to share information with Bank staff and to
consult them regularly on key issues enabled the Bank to provide important advisory input and to
contribute to significant achievements in the reform program.
However, the government's commitment waned in the last phase of the project, as evidenced by both its
actions on privatization and its actions to curb the independence of the regulatory agency. On the
privatization issues, as a result of unrealistic valuation of KT and unattractive license conditions (as
discussed in Section 4.2 - C), the first round of bidding did not invite any compliant bids. The Government
initially declined the Bank's or EBRD's advice or technical assistance in this matter. However, both IDA
and EBRD were able to maintain a dialogue with the Government on these issues, and SPF finally removed
these restrictive conditions. Another major problem with the reform process was the legal dispute between
the privatization advisor and the SPF on advisory services for the privatization of KT. In September 2000,
the privatization advisor filed a case with the Intemational Chamber of Comrnerce (ICC) in Paris with
material claims, based on the contract signed between the Government of Kyrgyz and the advisor (neither
IDA nor EBRD had any involvement in the contract). No amicable settlement has been reached. The
inability to resolve this issue has been detrimental to the privatization process.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The main implementing agencies were KyrgyzTelecom, the Ministry of Transport and Communications,
and the National Communications Agency.
The factors under their control included commitment to the reform process, completing the necessary
actions on time, and collaborating closely with the Bank on key issues to take advantage of the Bank's
expertise. On these fronts, the ministry, KT and the regulator have a mixed record. The ministry showed
commitment to the reform process and maintained a dialogue with the Bank. In the areas where regulatory
authority remains curtailed, the ministry needs to take the necessary actions to restore it and instill
confidence in the regulator's autonomy.
KT management also undertook the necessary steps for improving its organizational and management
- 10 -



structure and rules related to staffing, customer service, and financial and accounting management. It
performed with efficiency the evaluation of tenders for the physical component. Procurement of both
consultants as well as equipment for the management information system was performed with relative
efficiency. KT fulfilled its obligations under the legal covenants to report its financial status to IDA, and
also accepted and implemented IDA's advice.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost is estimated at US$31.0 million. The IDA credit totaled US$18 million, and the
EBRD credit was US$8 million. The breakdown was as follows:
Expansion of telecommunications network: US$28.57 million
Institutional development and sector restructuring: US$2.42 million
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the reform process in the Kyrgyz Republic is likely because of two main reasons:
* The capacity built in different institutions for administering the sector: The new law and regulatory
authority provide a legal basis for the continuance of the reform.
*   The government's commitment: The President has taken a personal interest in the sector and has
requested IFC financing for the ICT sector. The continuance of the reforrns will result in external
investment in the ICT sector, both from IFC and from other donors.
At the same time, some threats remain to the reform process and will need to be addressed by the
government, particularly in the privatization controversy between SPF and the privatization advisor. SPF
has proposed to IFC and EBRD equity participation of 27% of the state-owned shares remaining after the
sale of 51% to a strategic investor, as this would increase the attractiveness of KT to private investors.
However, unless this conflict is resolved, neither IFC nor EBRD nor private sector investors will
participate further in the privatization. The larger issue at hand is the confidence of investors in the
government's willingness to honor its contractual obligations. The next steps in the privatization process
can be performed only with properly updated tender documents and in a fully transparent way, so as not to
provoke tender fatigue and discourage bidders.
In order to make the prospects for sector development more sustainable, certain other key measures need to
be taken, including opening up the basic telecoms sector to competition and building up further regulatory
capacity. The temporary suspension of NCA's independence in January 2001 shows the precariousness of
the regulatory agency. An effective independent regulatory entity and the stability of legislation are critical
for attracting foreign investment. While NCA was reinstalled as an independent agency a couple of months
later, some of its prerogatives remain curtailed. It is crucial that NCA have full financial independence in
accordance with the Telecommunications Law.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N/A.



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during preparation was satisfactory. The Bank team had a good skills mix with
expertise in the technical, financial, policy, and structural aspects of the telecommunications sector.
Combined with expertise of the EBRD team, this provided a strong resource for advising the government
on sector development and the reform agenda. The Bank team was comprised of telecommunications
engineers and financial and procurement specialists. The Bank's relationship with the cofinancier and the
client were good. The project appraisal mission involved the Borrower closely.
The project, moreover, was designed to build on the assistance that the Bank had already provided as part
of the Rehabilitation Credit (Credit 2491-KG). While this earlier credit had assisted in the first phase of
the reform process, the IDA Teleconmnunications Credit was geared to fulfill the objectives of the second
phase. The project therefore closely reflected the government's progress in this area. The Bank also
formulated a clear set of performance indicators to ensure monitoring and evaluation during project
implementation. As Annex I shows, most of these performance targets have been fulfilled.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance during supervision was satisfactory. All disbursements were done on time. There were
no delays in payments, procurement, or project implementation. However, in its evaluation the Borrower
pointed out that the Bank could improve the accessibility of its standard bidding and procurement
documents on diskettes or over the Internet to facilitate ease of use.
A close working relationship between Bank staff and the government resulted in the project exceeding its
physical objectives and taking important strides towards sector restructuring and reform. It bolstered the
government's commitment and enabled the Bank to advise on crucial issues such as procedures for granting
of licenses, tariff reform, and resolution of privatization disputes. The Bank team was also able to advise
on other elements in response to global changes in the sector: these related to the introduction of
competition, privatization of the incumbent, development of the national information infrastructure, and
reform of the postal sector.
There was an excellent working relationship and cooperation between the two cofmanciers, IDA and
EBRD. All supervision missions were carried out by the two institutions together, and they gave
complementary policy advice to the government. The Quality of Supervision Assessment undertaken by
QAG rated the Bank's performance as satisfactory in September 2000 (a summary of the assessment is
provided in Section 10).
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory because Bank staff maintained a close dialogue with the
government, provided technical assistance on key issues and areas, and factored in global changes in the
ICT sector into the progress of the project. The Bank provided advice even in those areas that were not
directly within the purview of the original project design such as postal reform, information infrastructure,
and Internet and cellular liberalization, providing a catalyst to advances in these areas.
On privatization, as discussed in detail above, the Bank provided advice on changing the restrictive
- 12-



conditions of the initial tenders, which SPF eventually accepted. The Bank also advised on the importance
of tariff rebalancing to make privatization more attractive. To promote a competitive market, the Bank
advised the government to restrict the exclusivity of KT until January 1, 2003 instead of 2008, and this was
followed by the government. On regulation, the Bank in its last mission pointed out to the government the
importance of restoring the functions and powers of NCA as mandated by the Telecommunications Law. In
retrospect, the Bank could have leveraged both this operation as well as other adjustment instruments more
strongly and consistently to push the privatization agenda.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation is rated as satisfactory. There was borrower commitment to the
project, largely because the project was closely aligned with the government's own plan for the development
of the sector and was intended to assist in fulfilling the second phase of the government's reform agenda.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's implementation performance is rated as satisfactory. The government undertook most of
reform measures on schedule. It was fairly speedy about processing the relevant documents, and did so with
transparency. The government complied with most of the Bank's requests, and responded with speed and
efficiency.
However, the last phases of the project have seen a waning of Government commitment to the reform
process. The first attempt at privatization of KT failed because of unrealistic and unattractive conditions
for the sale. While these have been remedied, the continuing problems with the privatization advisor have in
essence stalled the privatization process. The action of the Council of Ministers in curbing the authority
and independence of regulators, including those in energy and telecommunications, was a serious setback to
the reform process. The Government of Kyrgyz needs to take further action to resolve these issues and to
institute a more credible regulatory regime.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performnance of the main implementing agencies, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, as
well as KyrgyzTelecom, is rated as satisfactory. NCA has succeeded in building up its capacity and
expertise, but its regulatory capacity has not fully been put to the test, since KyrgyzTelecom continues to
have a dominant position. Moreover, NCA's independence, stipulated by law, has also been shaken. KT has
exceeded its infrastructure expansion targets, improved its organizational capacity, built up its commercial
strengths to be both a good candidate for privatization and commercially viable in the face of competition,
and performed well financially.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performnance is rated as satisfactory.
- 13 -



8. Lessons Learned
Several lessons were learned in the course of the implementation of the project:
First, training and capacity building are a necessary component in projects that seek to introduce
technological and institutional innovation. Training in new technologies, policy-making, and regulation
proved crucial for progress on both physical and reform objectives. The regulatory authority developed
significant skills to regulate in a competitive environment. KT developed skills that made it a better
candidate for privatization, and that would enable it to operate more effectively under competition.
Second. projects with long durations need to take into account significant changes in the sector, and adjust
project objectives to respond to these changes. The project did provide advice on privatization, cellular
competition, and broader information infrastructure issues. However, incorporating the privatization as a
clear component of project objectives might have given the process of privatization greater support
Third, it is crucially important to leverage the potential synergies between multiple operations in any
country to enable the achievement of sector and development objectives. The proper emphasis on
privatization as an explicit objective and covenant in parallel adjustment operations would also have put
pressure on the government to expedite and seriously address this issue.
Fourth, the failure of privatization and the erosion of investor confidence as a result of the dispute with the
privatization advisor demonstrated that it is very crucial for the government to establish appropriate
contractual arrangements.
Fiflh, another lesson learned was that sound project design and implementation (especially in stand-alone
projects) matters. For any project involving complex sector reform, while all elements of reform and all
project elements can be in place and perfectly implemented, acts of government can threaten to undermnine
the reform process. Because of sound project design and implementation, the reform process overall was
able to withstand major setbacks.
Sixth (as the Borrower has pointed out in its assessment of the project), in implementing the physical
infrastructure, the gap between implementation and planning of network and switching facilities needs to be
taken into account. In laying out the physical infrastructure, the gap between switching capacity and
connected (subscriber) lines widened in percentage terns, resulting in excess idle switching capacity. The
relatively short planning cycle of switching network construction permits switching planning on a
"just-in-time" basis relative to the access network, and this would yield better utilization of capital
employed and a faster return on invested capital.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The overall operational experience has been very positive. The operation has run smoothly with small
impediments along the path but no major interruptions. All physical performance goals have been met. The
fault rate, the call completion rate, and staff productivity have improved significantly.  One main
shortcoming has been the gap between switching capacity and connected (subscriber) lines, which widened
in percentage terms, resulting in an increased proportion of underutilized capital during the period.
- 14 -



Evaluation of Borrower's Performance: KyrgyzTelecom managed the project through its Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) supported by TA components financed by the EBRD. PIU staff, which took a
part in implementation of the First Telecommunications Project, used their capacity to participate in
implementation of network modernization projects in the Chui and Osh regions financed by Korea ExIm
Bank and the Kuwait Fund, the construction of the Trans Asia-Europe (TAE) fiber-optic cable trunk line
and other projects. The skills and knowledge gained during First Telecommunications Project played a
significant role for the successful finalization of these other projects. Taking advantage of the good
relationship with the Bank, the Borrower's previous operations, and benefits from technical assistance,
consultancy, and earlier training, KyrgyzTelecom successfully managed the procedures of bidding,
procurement, installation, and finalization of different components of the projects.
Evaluation of Bank's Performance: Aside from the financial contribution, the support from the Bank been
appreciated and initiatives undertaken during the Bank's missions to the Kyrgyz Republic have been highly
valued as inputs for further improvements. The Bank and KyrgyzTelecom management staff maintained a
harmonious working relationship throughout project implementation.
The Bank could improve the accessibility of important documents such as "Standard Bidding Documents",
"Procurement of Goods", and "Procurement of Works" on diskettes or over the Internet to facilitate their
ease of use. The documents would then always be up to date and would thus reduce the workload on both
the Borrower and the Bank.
Lessons Leamed:
*   To meet demand in a timely fashion and improve overall investment efficiency, KyrgyzTelecom needs
to concentrate on shortening the time spent on project component implementation, especially the
tendering and contract set-up phases.
*   The gap between switching capacity and connected (subscriber) lines has widened in percentage terms
over the period of the project, resulting in excess idle switching capacity. To avoid this gap in future
projects the much longer actual implementation time and planning horizon of outside plant network
construction compared with switching network construction needs to be fully taken into account. The
relatively short planning cycle of switching network construction permits switching planning on a
"just-in-time" basis relative to access network and this would yield better utilization of capital
employed and a faster return on invested capital.
*   The planning and coordination of components of the project that physically overlap or otherwise
interrelate needs to be improved to avoid confusion and unnecessary delay in completion of work.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments not received.
(c) Other partners lNGOs/private sector):
N/A.
- 15 -



10. Additional Information
T he following is the summary of the QAG Quality of Supervision Assessment.
FY00 QUALITY OF SUPERVISION ASSESSMENT
Summary Assessment Sheet
]'roject: Telecommunications                  Country: Kyrgyz Republic
Sector: Telecommunications                    Region: ECA
Task 1Team Leader: S. Tintchev                Country Director: K. Kodera
P'roject ID: P008518                          Sector Manager: H. Razavi
LoanlCredit Amount (SMil): 18                 Loan/Credit Number: 26340 Credit
I)ate Approved: 06/23/94                      Date Effective: 02/01/95
EFY00 Supervision Budget $000
WPA: 80                                       Actual: 98
IPerson (s) Interviewed:
S. Tintchev, TTL
Others: A. Cruzat, K. Daruwalla, P. Thomson
T'TL was: Headquarters
At Risk Status (as of 6/30/00): Non-Risky
I nvironment Category A, B, C Or Fl: C
First Stage Review:
QAG Moderator: R. Drysdale
Planel Leader: Marc Heitner
flanel member(s): Robert Saunders
Specialized Reviewers
EInvironment: Rusdian Lubis
Social assessment : Dan Aronson
Financial management : Josephine Masanque
P'rocurement : Kurt Constant
Overall Rating: 2                             Assessment date:09/01/2000
Main points on which overall assessment was based
The panel judged the Bank's supervision of this project as satisfactory overall and in each of the four
dimensions.
T he Bank supervision team is focusing its efforts on sector reform, including the privatization of
KyrgyzTelecom (KT). This is the right approach for the Bank to follow at this juncture. This assessment
- 16 -



is based on the following considerations:
The team maintains a focus on the big picture of reform in the sector as well as action plan for the key
utility and tariff reform and regulation; team is fully equipped in terms of skills and resources for this
challenge; Bank manages expertly relations with the client; excellent collaboration with EBRD.
The Project was (appropriately) designed in 1993, in a wholly different context, and has become somewhat
outdated. In the view of the panel, the Bank supervision team may have missed an opportunity to amend
and update the Project Objectives, within the framework of a Mid-Term Review, and agree on a set of
indicators, which are more relevant to today's context.
The sensitive issue of tariff reform and tariff setting is a key, though complex, challenge under this
operation. Staff must continue to focus attention of the client to this central aspect of sustainability.
The Bank team may also have sought to direct greater attention to the social impacts of sector reform.
In light of this assessment, list two or three factors, which will require particular attention to improve the
prospects for achieving the proiect's development objectives
The most important contribution the Bank could make at this juncture is to support the privatization
process of KT. This will involve working with the authorities on policy formulation, regulation (in
particular with the aspects of the regulator's work the government interferes with) and privatization of KT.
It is important for the Bank to focus also on the social impacts of the privatization of KT, both in terms of
the consumer's ability to pay and the introduction of a safety net for KT staff.
Assessment Rating
1   = Highly Satisfactory
2     Satisfactory
3   = Marginal
4     Unsatisfactory
NA = Not Applicable
Supervision Assessment
Focus on Development Effectiveness: 2
Supervision of Fiduciary/Safeguard Aspects: 2
Adequacy of Supervision Inputs and Processes: 2
Quality and Realism of Reporting: 2
Overall Assessment: 2
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
(a) Installed Switching capacity      385,000 analog + 41,000 digital        354,846 analog + 141,520 digital
(b) Number of Working Lines           343,000 analog + 34,850 digital        288,431 analog + 92,406 digital
(c) Efficiency = Staff per 1,000 Working  10                                 17
Lines
(d) Progress in enacting new Telecom Law  N/A                                Adopted in April 1998
(e) Progress in establishment of Regulatory  N/A                             National Communications Agency (NCA)
Agency                                                                       created in October 1997
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected In last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Fault rate = faults per 100 lines / year  30                                 30
Call Completion rate %                50                                     50
End of project
- 18 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component           US$ million  US$ million
Rehabilitation/Expansion of the Network           15.00          16.81          112
Institutional Development                          0.80          0.46           57.5
Sector Restructuring                               0.45          0.30           66.6
Total Baseline Cost                               16.25          17.57
Physical Contingencies                            0.80          0.00
Price Contingencies                               0.95          0.00
Total Project Costs            18.00         17.57
Total Financing Required            18.00         17.57
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB         Other2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    20.93        0.00         0.00         7.64        28.57
(17.15)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (17.15)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         0.89         1.53        2.42
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.85)        (0.00)      (0.85)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                    20.93         0.00        0.89         9.17        30.99
(17.15)      (0.00)       (0.85)       (0.00)      (18.00)
- 19 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB           NCB          Other2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                       0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
_______________________       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                       31.16          0.00          0.00          0.00         31.16
(16.81)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (16.81)
3. Services                    0.00           0.00          0.00          3.21         3.21
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.76)        (0.76)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       31.16          0.00          0.00          3.21         34.37
(16.81)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.76)        (17.57)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component             Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.     CoF.     Bank      Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Rehabilitation/Expansion  15.00   3.90      6.10      16.81     3.00     14.49   112.1   76.9  237.5
of the Network
Institutional Development  0.80   0.25      1.40      0.46      0.00     2.45     57.5   0.0   175.0
Sector Restructuring    0.45      0.02      0.00      0.31      0.00     0.00     68.9   0.0    0.0
- 20 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
See attached tables for increase in network capacity.
- 21 -



ANNEX 3, TABLE 1: INSTALLED     &  WORKING CAPACITY BY' REGION/ CITY
AS OF JUrNE 25,2001
JALAL-
t - INSTALLED LINES      TOTAL     BISHKEK     CHUI     TALAS      ABAD         OSH         NARIN       BATlKEN   ISYIK - Khlil
RI iRAL
-GOLDSTAR                 1,440                1,440
ERICSSON                     0          0        0         0          0            0                         I           (
Korean -* HANWHA        20,808               20,808
SUMITOMO                 1.792                                                  1,280                      512
TOTAL DIGITAI            24,040          0    22,248        0          0         1,280           0          512           0
IOTAL ANALOG             108,060         0     15,100    8,500     24,500        19,550      10,250       10.712      19,448
701'AL Ol(.ITAL +
AN'IOG                     132,100         0     37,348    8,500     24,500        20,830       10,250      11,224      19,448
iR BAN
GOLDSTAR                 4,600                4,600
- DRX-4                    3,000                          3,000
ERICSSON                56,000     30,000        0     2,000      7,000        10,000        1,000                   60(10
Korean - DAEWOO              0                                        0
Si -MITOMO              23,296                                                 22,528                      768
Korean - IAN`0'HA       18,584               18.584
TOlAl. DIGITAL           105,480     30,000    23,184    5,000      7,000        32,528        1,000         768       6,000
I'C) 1\L iANALOG         236,354    141,434   21,292         0     20,048       17,800        6,200        6,724      22,856
I 0I'AL DiGITAL. +
XE A I ()                 341,834     171,434   44,476     5,000     27,048       50,328        7,200        7,492      28,856
f RURAL + URBAN
.IO'ALDIGITA.              129,520     30,000   45,432     5,000      7,000       33,808        1,000        1,280       6,000
'T(3TAI. ANALOG            344,414    141,434   36,392     8,500     44,548       37,350       16,450       17,436      42.304
(IRAND TOTAL    LINES     473,934    171,434    81,824    13,500    51,548        71,158       17,450      18,716      48.304
B - VORKING LINES 31
DEC. 00                   TOTAL    BISHKEK      CHUI     TALAS    LAL-ABAD      OSH          NARIN      BATKEN     ISYK - KI L
RlUIRAI.
- GOLDSrAR                  840                  840
LRICSSON                    0          0         0         0         0             0            0           C            0
-SUMi FC'MO                 329                                                    265                        64
- Korean HANWHA            12,426
TOTAL LlGITAL             13,595         0       840         0         0           265            0           64           0
'TOTAL ANALCIG            70,348         0     11,172    4,205     14,436        13,669        6,053       5,890       14,923
TOTAL DIGITAL +
ANALOG                      71,517         0     12,012    4,205     14,436        13,934       6,053        5,954      14,923
URBAN
- GOLD',TAR                3,274                3,274
- DRX-4                     1,856         0               1,856
ERICSSON                46,128     24,750        0     1,924      6,662         8.556         900          312       3.024
Korean - DAEWOO              0
- SUMITOMO                 17.481                                                 17.481
- Korean - HANHWA              0
TO-TAL l)IGITAL           68,739     24,750     3,274    3,780      6,662        26,037         900          312       3,024
TOTAL ANALOG             207,896    135,051    17,226        0     12,775        14,284        4,502       4,967       19,091
OTAL DIGITAL. +
ANAILOG                    276,635    159,801    20,500    3,780     19,437        40,321        5,402         688      22,115
RURAL + URBAN
T'OTAL DIGITAL              82,334     24,750     4,114    3,780      6,662        26,302         900          376       3,024
TO'AL. ANALOG              278,244    135,051    28,398    4,205     27,211        27,953       10,555       5,890      34,014
GRAND TOTAL     LINES     343,185    159,801    32,512    7,985     33,873        54,255       11,455       6,266      37,038
P'opulation
Urban                   1,689,000   761,300   167,800    34,100   203,600       277,300       45.900       73.600     125,400
_Rural                   3,178,400      4,200   604,100   167,600   677,200       915,300      205.700     314,200     290,100
Total                   4,867,400   765,500   771,900   201,700   880,800      1,192,600     251.600      387.800     415,500
4,867,400
Ieclephone .Iensitv
-,rhan                    16.38%     20.99%    12 22%    1109%      9.55%        1454%        11 77%        093%       17.464%
- Rural                      2.25%      0.00%     1.99%    251%       2.13%         1.52%        2 94%        1 89%       5.14%/o
- Total                      7.15%     2088%      421%     396%       385%          4.55%        455%         1 71%       891%/
-  22   -



ANNEX 3, TABLE 2: EBRD / IDA PROJECT for originally 50,000, now 140,000 DIGITAL LINES
INSTAILLED   & WORKING LINES -- DIGITAL         PLAN (Including Goldstar - DRX-Turkey - Daewoo - Kuwait - with HANHWA CHUY 39,392 LINES)
As of June 25, 2001
Working    Installed  Connected    Working    Installed   Installed  Connected  Working Installed   Installed  Connected   Working    Installed  Installed
as of      as of     In 1998      as of      during       as of     In 1999     as of    during     as of     In 2000      as of     during      as of
31 Dec 97   31 Dec 97              31 Dec 98     1998    31 Dec. 98              31 Dec 99         31 Dec. 99              31 Dec. 00            31 Dec. 00
HISHKEK                    599      28,000       8,401       9,000         0       28,00C      10,436    19,436   2,000      30,00        4,229     23,665          0     30,00
CHUI inl GS (6040)        3,47       6,040        636        4,115         0         6,04        300      4,415       0       6,04         200       4,615          0      6,04
C    UI:                                                                                                                                    0                      0
Korean l.oan -
Hanhwa                                   0          0            0                                 0         0                           20,091     20,091     39,392     39,392
TALAS incl DRX
(3000)                    2,88        5,00C      1,028       3,912         0         5,00       (182)     3,730       0       5,00          69       3,799          0      5,00
0                     0
JALAL-ABAD                  103      3,000       4,628       4,731     4,000         7,00       1,305     6,036       0       7,00         313       6,349          0      7,00
Korean - Daewoo                 ______              A                ___________                   0         0        0                      0           0     12,000     12,00(
OSH0                                 10,000      6,918       6,918         0        10,00C      1,833     8,751       0      10,00          26       8,777          0     10,00(
- OSH - Kuwait
Fund                                     0          0            0                                           0                    0      21,760     21,760     25,088     25,08
NARIN -                       3       1,000       402          405         0         1,00C       316       721        0       1,000         90         811          0      1,00(
ISYK-KUL                                                                                                                                                            0
- KARAKOL                             3,000       246          246         0         3,00        204       450        0       3,000         100        550          0      3,00
- CHOLPON - ATA         .            3,000       1,764        1,764        0         3,000        175     1,939       0       3,000          50      1,989          0      3,00t
New Digital                                      4,010       4,010                               638      4,648                          12,055     16,703
Vol-Transfer              6,96                   1,900       8,862                              1,833    10,695                           4,648     15,343
Fcd-Transfer                10                  18,113       18,219                            11,916    30,135                          30,225     60,360
TOTAL                   7,06       59,04      24,023       31,091     4,000       63,04      14,387    45,478    2,000     65,040      46,928      92,406     76,480    141,52
Total Installed           7,06E          0      24,023      31,091                 63 040      14,387    45,478              65,040      46,928     92,406               141,52
1      -         I                      IX                      I                  I                      IX I0X       
Working    Installed  Connected    Working    Installed   Installed  Connected  Working Installed   Installed  Connected   Working    Installed  Instilled
as of      as of     in 2001       as of     during       as of     in 2002      as of   during     as of      in 2003     as of      during     as of
31 Dec 93  31 Dec 93               31 Dec 01              31 Dec 01              31 Dec 02          31 Dec 02              31 Dec 03             31 Dec 03
BISHKEK                                          2,335      26,000         0        30,000      2,000    28,000       0      30,000       2,000     30,000          0     30,000
CHUI ine GS (6040)                                300        4,915         0         6,04        400      5,315       0       6,04          500      5,815          0      6,04
CHUI:
Korean Loan -
HANHWA                                           6,000      26,091         0        39,392      6,000    32,091       0      39,392       7,301     39,392          0     39,392
TALAS incl DRX
(3000)                                            300        4,099         0         5,00        350      4,449       0       5,000         200      4,649          0      5,00
JALAL-ABAD                                        651         7,000        0         7,00           0     7,000       0       7,000           0      7,000          0      7,00
Korean - Daewoo                                  5,000       5,000         0        12,000      1,000     6,000       0      12,000       1,000      7,000          0     12,00(
OSH                                               700        9,477         0        10,000       523     10,000       0      10,000          0      10,000          0     1 0o0o
- OSH0- Kuwait
Fund                                             1,664      23,424         0       25,088       1,664    25,088       0      25,088          0      25,088          0     25,088
NARIN -                                            100         911         0         1,000        89      1,000       0       1,000          0       1,000          0      1,00
ISYK-KUL
- KARAKOL                                         200          750         0         3,00        200       950        0       3,00          200      1,150          0      3,00
- CHOLPON - ATA                                   300        2,289         0         3,000       300      2,589       0       3,00          100      2,689          0      3,00
New Digital                                      6,764      23,467                              3,600    27,067                           4,381     31,447
Vol-Transfer                                     2,935       18,278                             3,250    21,528                           3,000     24,528
Fcd-Transfer                                     7,851      68,211                              5,676    73,887                           3,920     77,808
TOTAL                                         17,550      109,956        0       141,52      12.526   122,482       0      141,520     11,301     133,783         0     141,52
Total Installed                                 17,550      109,956                141.52      12,526   122,482             141,52       11,301     133,783              141,52C



ANNEX 3, TABLE 3: KYRGYZ TELECOM TARIFFS (values without VAT = 20%) As of June 25, 2001
Valid since Jan. 98             Valid since Ist Oct. 98             Valid since lst April2000
Service                                                                                                                              2001      2002      2003
in SOM           in US$ ( 17.5)     in SOM        in US$ ( 29.38)     in SOM             in US5     48.2
Annual    Monthly   nnual Monthly Annual    Monthl Annual     Monthly Annual     Monthly   Annual     Monthly
Monthly Rental Analog
- Business                  324.00     27.00  18.51      1.54   324.00           11.03                                                       62.50      78.12    109.37
- Bishkek                                                         27.00              0.92                50.00                1.04
- Oblast & Rayon                                                  27.00              0.92               35.42                 0.73
- rural                                                           27.00              0.92               27.00                 0.56
- Budget                    216.00     18.00  12.34      1.03   216.00            7.35                                                       45.56      78.12    109.37
- Bishkek                                                         18.00              0.61               26.80                 0.56
- Oblast& Rayon                                                   18.00              0.61               21.88                 0.45
- rural                                                           18.00              0.61                16.66                0.35
- Residential               200.00     16.67  11.43     0.95   200.00             6.81                                                       34.84      47.03     70.00
- Bishkek                                                         16.67              0.57               26.80                 0.56
- Oblast & Rayon                                                  16.67              0.57               21.88                 0.45
- rural                                                           16.67              0.57                16.67                0.35
p.
Monthly Rental Digital
I        - Business & Budget ***    1,800.00  150.00  102.86     8.57  1,260.00           42.89                                                      120.75    138.86     159.69
- BishkektOblast+_Rayon                                               105.00             3.57               105.00                 2.18
- rural                                                               105.00             3.57                83.34                 1.73
- Residential               600.00     50.00  34.29     2.86   420.00            14.30                                                       43.75      54.69     70.00
- Bishkek+Oblast+_Rayon                                                35.00              1.19               35.00                 0.73
- rural                                                                35.00              1.19               25.00                 0.52
Transfer to Digital
- Business                  500.00            28.57             100.00            3.40            100.00                  3.40
- Residential               500.00            28.57             100.00            3.40            100.00                  3.40
0.84/3                                                                1.50/1.22/3=
Public phones
- charge per min. (Som)       0 28           0.0160              0.28           0.010              0.41                0.0085
*** includes 400 local milutes per month.



ANNEX 3, TABLE 4: KYRGYZ LD TELECOM TARIFFS
(values without VAT= 20%)
As of June 25, 2001
Valid Sept. 97               Valid I Oct. 98            Valid 1 April 2000
Per minute   Per minute      Per minute  Per minute     Per minute  Per minute       2001      2002       2003
SOM          USS             SOM          US$           SOM          lASs
17.5                        29.38                       42.8
LOCAL PER MIN. RATES
Business analog & digital - Bishkek
Public phones (token & card) perr 3 min.                                                               150   0.035047
DOMESTIC LONG DISTANCE
- Inter Oblast ( Som)
lBusiness                            0.5000                      1.0000                     2.0000                 2.6000     3.3800    3.8397
- Residential                         0.2084                       0.5000                     1.0000                 1.8000    2.4800     2.6000
- Intra Oblast ( Som)
-Business                            0.2500                      0.5000                      1.0000                1.6000     2.0800    3.8400
Residential                          0.1250                      0.3000                     0.7500                 1.1250     1.6900    2.5992
CIS TARIFFS                                                                                                                 1.95%     1.91%     2.35%
Russia - Business                             4 00                                     0.41                        0.41     0.418     0.426      0.436
Residential                            2.00                                     0.20                       0.20     0.260      0338      0.436
tUkraine - Business                           2. 40                                    0.41                        0.41   30.00%     30.00%    28.99%
- Residential                            1.20                                    0.20                        0.20
Belarus                                       3.80                                     0.41                        0.41
- Residential                            1.90                                    0.20                        0.20
Moldova                                       5.10                                     0.41                        0.41
- Residential                           2.60                                     0.20                        0.20
Kazakhstan-Turmekistan-Tadjikistan            3,10                                     0.31                        0.31
- Residential                            1.55                                    0.15                        0.15
tUzbekistan                                   2.00                                     0.31                        0.31
- Residential                            1.35                                    0.15                        0.15
Armenia-Georgia-Azerkaijian                   5.10                                     0.38                        0.38
- Residential                           2.40                                     0.23                        0.23
INTERNATIONAL LD TRAFFIC
LATVIA-LITIIUANIA-ESTONIA                                  1.00                         1,00                       0.90       0.84      0.78      0.72
TURKEY                                                     1.50                         1.50                       1.35       1.26      1.17       1.09
EUROPE                                                     2.00                        2.00                        1.80       1.67      1.55       1.44
AFRICA-AMERICA-ASIA-others                                 3.00                        3.00                        2.70      2.60       2.42      2.25
INMARSAT A                                                                           6.90
INMARSAT B,M                                                                         4.05
INMARSAT Mini M                                                                      2.40



ANNEX3,TABLE5: CIS TARIFFS-COVENANT
Covenant year 2000
"K" Factor = 0.74 since Jan 2001 and 0.80 by Dec. 2001
Route                AR with          Covenanted                 Current Tariffs (CR - since I October 98)
Accounting   coef        Minimum Collection Rate                                        CR (WA)                                Covenant
rates    K=0.74         min. CR= AR* 1.5                                   Weighted   versus      Traffic Minutes           Weighted
(AR)        0.74    1.38      66.93    48.5     Zone     Business  Resident  Average    AR            1999            %       Ratio
Currency    SDR       SDR       SDR      SOM       USD                IJSD      USD       USD     in USD
Azerbaijan   0.1525  0.11285  0.16928    11.3296    0.2336        3      0.38      0.23     0.35      2.23          143,268.00     0.01      0.02
Armenia      0.2500  0.18500  0.27750    18.5731    0.3830        3      0.38      0.23     0.35      1.36           29,409.00     0.00      0.00
Bclarus      0.1700  0.12580  0.18870    12.6297    0.2604        2      0.41      0.20     0.33      1.89          209,990.00     (.01      0.02
Estonia      0.2000  0.14800  0.22200    14.8585    0.3064        4       0.9       0.9     1.17      5.72           11,315.00     0.00      0.00
Georgia      0.2000  0.14800  0.22200    14.8585    0.3064        3      0.38      0.23     0.35      1.70           36,040.00     0.00      0.00
Kazakhstai   0.1500  0.11100  0.16650    11.1438    0.2298        1      0.31      0.15     0.25     1.61         5.943,745.00     0.29      0.46
Latvia       0.2500  0.18500  0.27750    18.5731    0.3830        4       0.9       0.9     1.17      4.58           22,888.00     0.00      0.01
Lithuania    0.2500  0.18500  0.27750    18.5731    0.3830        4       0.9       0.9     1.17      4.58           23,939.00     0,00      0.01
Moldova      0.1400  0.10360  0.15540    10.4009    0.2145        2      0.41      0.20     0.33      2.29           39,142.00     0.00      0.00
Russia       0.2610  0.19314  0.28971    19.3903    0.3998        2      (0.41     0.20     0.33      1.23       10,283.223.0)0)   0.50      0.61
Tajikistan   0).1250  0.09250  0.13875    9.2865    0.1915        1      0.31      0,15     0.25      1.93          544,478.00     0.03     ().05
Turkmenist   0.1400  0.10360  0.15540    10.4009    0.2145        1      0.31      0.15     0.25      1.72          171,795.00     0.01      0.01
lJzbekistan  0.1339  0.09909  0).14863    9.9477    0.2051        1      0.31      0.15     0.25      1.80        2,696,557.00     0.13      0.24
Ukraine      0.2300  0.17020  0.25530    17.0872    0.3523        2      0.41      0.20     0.33      1.40          486,958.00     0.0)2     0.03
'Total                                                                                                           20,642,747.00     1.00      1.47
'I'arrif in US Btusiness  Resident    'I'raffic  |  %               Time Dep. Co-effic     %
Zone I      0.31      0.15             Business     25                              0.5        5   00:00-06:00
Zone 2      0.41      0.20             Resident      75                              1     62.72   04:00-10:00 & 16:00-24:00
Zone 3      0.38      0.23                                                           2     32.28  10:00-16:00
Average      1.2978          Nedeed Rate increase            1.02237
SDR       66.9300 SOM           1.38
USD       48.5000 SOM
Note: The data from last year have been used in calculations.
Note: "K" factor increased to 0.74 on Ist January 2001.



ANNEX3,TABLE6: CIS TARIFFS-COVENANT
"K" Factor will be = 0.74 July - Dec. 2001  Covenant years 2001 - 2003
Route                AR with            Covenanted                 Current Tariffs (CR - since I October 98)
Accounting   coef          Minimum Collection Rate                                         CR (WA)                           Covenant
rates    K= 0.8          min. CR= AR*1.5                                      Weighted   versus       Traffic Minutes     Weighted
(AR)       0.8      1.38   | 79.8192    57.84     Zone    Business  Resident  Average     AR        1,999.00       %        Ratio
Currency     SDR       SDR       SDR      SOM        USD                USD       USD       USD      in USD_
Azerbaijan    0.1525  0.12200  0.18300     14.6069   0.2525         3      0.39      0.30      0.42      2.48    143,268.00      0.01      0.02
Armenia       0.2500  0.20000  0.30000     23.9458    0.4140        3      0.39      0.30      0.42      1.51     29,409.00      0.00      0.00
Belarus       0.1700  0.13600  0.20400     16.2831   0.2815         2      0.42      0.26      0.39      2.07    209,990.00      0.01      0.02
Estonia       0.2000  0.16000  0.24000     19.1566   0.3312         4                          0.78      3.53     11,315.00      0.00      0.00
Georgia       0.2000  0.16000  0.24000     19.1566    0.3312        3      0.39      0.30      0.42      1.89     36,040.00      0.00      0.00
Kazahstan     0.1500  0.12000  0.18000     14.3675    0.2484        1      0.32      0.20      0.29      1.77   5,943,745.00     0.29      0.51
Latvia          0.25  0.20000  0.30000     23.9458    0.4140        4                          0.78      2.83     22,888.00      0.00      0.00
Lithuania       0.25  0.20000  0.30000     23.9458    0.4140        4                          0.78      2.83     23,939.00      0.00      0.00
Moldova       0.1400  0.11200  0.16800     13.4096    0.2318        2      0.42      0.26      0.39      2.51     39,142.00      0.00      0.00
Russia        0.2610  0.20880  0.31320     24.9994    0.4322        2      0.42      0.26      0.39      1.35  10,283,223.00     0.50      (1.67
lajikistan    0.1250  0.10000  0.15000     11.9729   0.2070         1      0.32      0.20      0.29      2.12    544.478.00      0.03      0.06
'Iurkmenist   0.1400  0.11200  0.16800     13.4096    0.2318        1      0.32      0.20      0.29      1.89     171,795.00     0.01      0.02
Uzbekistan    0.1339  0.10712  0.16068     12.8253    0.2217        1      0.32      0.20      0.29      1.98   2,696.557.00     0.13      0.26
Ukraine       0.2300  0.18400  0.27600     22.0301    0.3809        2      0.42      0.26      0.39      1.53    486,958.00      0.02      0.04
Total                                              .        _                                                    20,642,747     1.0000    1.6032
Tarril in IUS Business  Resident       |Traffic       %               Time Dep. Co-effic      %     _l
Zone 1       0.31      0.15             Business     25                               0.5         5   00:00-06:00
Zone 2       0.41      0.20             Resident      75                                1      62.72  04:00-10:00 & 16:00-24:00
Zone 3       0.38      0.23                                                             2      32.28  10:00-16:00
Average       1.2978          Nedecd Rate increase       0.93565
SDR       79.8192 SOM            1.38
USD       57.8400 SOM
Ms. Kolesova



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS. etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year   | Count          Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
September 1992              4    1 Task Manager, 2
Telecommunications Engineers,
I Consultant
September 1993              3    1 Task Manager, 1
Telecommunications Engineer, I
j  Consultant
June 1993                   5    I Task Manager, I
Telecommunciations Engineer,
3 Consultants
May 1993                    4    1 Financial Analyst, I PSD
Specialist, I IT Specialist, I
Economist
February 1994               4    1 Task Manager. 2
Telecommunications Engineers,
I Financial Analyst
Appraisal/Negotiation
March 1994                  4    1 Task Manager, 2
Telecommunications
Engineers, t Financial
Analyst
Supervision                                 A
July 1995                    3   I Division Chief, I Task          S             S
Manager, I
Telecommunications
Engineer
Apnl 1996                    2   I Telecommunications Engineer,    S             S
I Economist
September 1996               3   I Telecommuncations Engineer.     S             S
2 Consultants
March 1997                   2   I ''clecommunications Engineer,  S             S
I Financial Analyst
September 1997               2 11 Telecommunications Engineer,     S             S
IFinancial Analyst
March 1998                   3   1 Telecommunications Engineer,    S            I-HS
I Financial Analyst, I Sr.
N   Counsel          E
November 1998                2    I Telecommunications Engineer,  S             S
I Financial Analyst
May 1999                     3 1I Telecommunications Engineer,     S             S
I Financial Analyst, I Sr.
Counselm    c
October 1999                 2   l Telecommunications Engineer,    S             S
I Financial Analyst
April 2000                       I i Telecommunications Engineer,  S             S
- 28 -



I Financial Analyst
October 2000                2   1 Telecommunications Engineer,    S             S
1 Financial Analyst
ICR
June 2001                   2    1 Telecommunications             S             S
Engineer, 1 Operations
Officer
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
.__ ___ _   No. Staff weeks        US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                                         438
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision                                                         577
ICR
Total                                                              1015
The SAP system combines the data for Appraisal/Negotiation with Identification/Preparation, and data for
ICR with Supervision. The data on No. of staff weeks is not available from SAP.
- 29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                         O H   OSUOM       O N  * NA
El Sector Policies                        O H  O SU O M    O N  0 NA
LI Physical                              * H   OSUOM       O N  O NA
El Financial                             O H   *SUOM       O N  O NA
E Institutional Development               0 H  0 SU O M    0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                         O H   OSUOM       O N  * NA
Social
3 Poverty Reduction                O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
E: Gender                          O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
LI Other (Please specify)          O H   O SU O M   O N   * NA
i Private sector development             0 H   0 SU 0 M    0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management               0 H   0 SU 0 M    0 N   O NA
O Other (Please specify)                 0 H   O SU O M    0 N   * NA
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS-Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
Li Lending                                          CHS*S        OU     OHU
O Supervision                                       O HS SS      OU     OHU
7 Overall                                           OHS *S       O U    O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
l Preparation                                       O HS * S     O U    O HU
. Government implementation performance             0 HS 0 S     0 U    0 HU
] Implementation agencyvperformance                 O HS * S     O  U   O HU
2] Overall                                          OHS OS       O  U   O HU
-31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Project Staff Appraisal Report
Project Supervision Aide Memoires
Project Supervision Reports
Final Project Report
Quality Assessment Group (QAG) Supervision Quality Review
Kyrgyz Country Assistance Strategy
Project Correspondence
Press Reports
Bank Research Reports
- 32 -



