Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICAL USE ONLY
Reprt No. P-6364-KG
MEMORAMNDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 12.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
FOR A
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
JUNE 3, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-    6364 KG
Type: MOP
This docment bas a restricted distribution and may be ued by recipients oly in de performan  of
tdir officiad dutes Its contents may not otberwis be dbseddwithout Wodd Dank authriatin.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Som
I US$ = 11 Som (Feb 94)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                                   Country Assistance Strategy
cis                                    Commonwealth of Independent States
EBRD                                  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ERR                                   Economic Rate of Return
ESW                                   Economic and Sector Work
FSU                                   Foi .er Soviet Union
GDP                                    Gross Domestic Product
IBRD                                   Intenational Bank For Reconstruction and Development
IDA                                   Intemational Development Association
IRR                                   Internal Rate of Return
MOC                                   Ministry of Communications
P1U                                   Project Implementation Unit
PPF                                    Project Preparation Facility
SDR                                   Standard Drawing Right
TA                                    Technical Assistance



FOR OFFICIAIL USE ONLY
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Botrower:           The Kyrgyz Republic
Beneficiary:        Kyrgyz Telecom
Amount:             SDR 12.8 million (US$ 18 million equivalent)
Tenns:              35 years, including 10 years grace, at standard IDA terms
On-lending:         US$ 17.6 million would be on-lent to Kyrgyz Telecom  with an
amortization period of 20 years including a 5-year grace period with
capitalization of interest. Funds would be on-lent at IBRD's standard
variable interest rate. Kyrgyz Telecom would bear the foreign exchange
risk. The balance of the credit (US$ - ',,000) would be passed to the
Ministry of Communications (MOC) for implementation of the sector
reform program.
inancing Plan
US$ Million equivalent---
Foreign       Local        Tottal
IDA          18.0          0.0          18.0
EBRD          8.0          0.0           8.0
MOC           0.0          5.0           5Q
Total      26.0          5.0          31.0
Economik Rate       37%
of Reftun:
Poverty Category:    N/A
Stff Appraisal
Rapot:              13105 KG
Map:                IBRD - 25800
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the pertonanme ofther
offical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
FOR A PROPOSED TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
TO THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
I.   I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendations on a
proposed credit to the Kyrgyz Republic for SDR 12.8 million, the equivalent of US$ 1S million,
on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 35 years to help finance a project in the
telecommunications sector. The amount of SDR 12.52 million, the equivalent of US$ 17.6
million, would -be on-lent to Kyrgyz Telecom for 20 years including 5 years grace with
capitalization of interest at IBRD's standard variable interest rate with Kyrgyz Telecom bearing
the foreign exchange risk. The project would be co-financed by EBRD. The balance of the
credit (SDR 280,OUO) would be passed to the Ministry of Communications IMOCI for
implementation of the sector reform program.
A. Background
2.    The Kyrgyz Republic, with roughly 4.5 million inhabitants, is a small, remote, land-
locked and mountainous country, and is among the poorest of the Former Soviet Union States
(FSU). Telephones were available to 338,600 subscribers or about 7.4 of every 100 people
in 1993.1/ 72% of lines are in urban areas (28% in rural) and slightly less than 25% of
installed lines are in business and government agencies.  Quality of service available,
particularly to business subscribers, is very poor. Local, long distance and international
telephone services are congested with call completion rates of less tilan 30%, versus 65% in
well functioning networks. There are over 50 faults per 100 subscr bers/year, as compared
with 20/100 in well maintained networks. Limited access to international telecommunications
and extremely low service quality throughout the system impede economic growth and the
transformation to a more market oriented economy in the Kyrgyz Republic. The Ministry of
Communications has recognized the need to shift from a centrally planned system. Currently,
as a government department, there are few incentives for management or staff to operate
commercially: decision-making is tightly controlled, salaries are uncompetitive and thus skilled
staff are leaving the sector, and investment and service provision decisions are politically rather
than economically driven.
B. Govemment Strategy
3.  To address the above constraints, MOC has developed, in consultation with IDA, a
strategy for reform of the telecommunications sector. As outlined below, a substantial part
of this strategy has already been agreed and is being implemented by the MOC. The strategy
includes three pnases:
Phase One, already underway, is to stabilize operations of the existing network and prevent
further deterioration. A Rehabilitation Credit (CR 2491-KYR, approved on May 13, 1993)
included a US$ 5.5 million component (subsequently reduced to USS 2 million) to purchase
critical spare parts to begin to stabilize the network operations.
1./  This compares with 15 in Russia, 11 in Kazakhstan, and an OECD average of 45.



2
Phase Two, which has also begun, will be implemented in the next two to fou. years, is to:
(a) restructure the telecommunications sector. - In March, 1994, the Prime Minister
approved a proposal to separate regulations from operations, split posts and
telecommunications to facilitate commercialization of basic telecommunication
activities, authoriza the establishment of a telecommunications corporation, and
authorize private in vestment in the new corporation. These reforms are key elements
of the Government's reform program as specified in a Letter of Sector Policy received
by IDA in March 1994 and will be implemented under the project. In addition,
selected non-basic 2/ market segments which are attractive to private investors,
are'will be liberalized under the reform program (see Annex A). These reforms will
require the drafting of a new Telecommunications law, new regulations, and licenses
for the new tetecommunications operator(s).
(b) ensure financial viability through:  (i) tariff reform, (ii) improved operational
performance (see (c) below); and (iii) better financial planning and management. In
November 1993, the MOC was given authority to set all business and selected state
budget and residential tariffs. In coordination with IDA, and as a condition of
Appraisal, the MOC has raised international call charges to world price levels and
denominated the charges in US dollars to hedge against inflation. The increases alone
are sufficient to ensure that the MOC has a positive nonminal net income. The MOC
has also raised FSU and long distance domestic tariffs in 1993 to account for inflation
and begun to raise call charges in real terms. It was agreed at negotiations that the
Kyrgyz Telecommunications will increase FSU call charges to world prices and that
FSU call charges will be indzxed through values expressed in US$ or SDRs in a
manner and timing acceptable to IDA.
(c) build manacement and planning capabilities, and restructure the telecommunications
operator through: (i) establishment of a commercial structure, business processes,
and financial, management, and audit controls for the new telecommunication
corporation; (ii) implementation of a training program; and (iii) establishment of a
performance-based incentive scheme and increases in salaries of key staff;
(d) provide the Kvrqvz Republic's key businesses and economic agents with quality
telecommunications services to meet their Prioritv needs. These subscribers will pay
world price equivalents for services;
An IDA Project Preparation Facility of $US 450,000 has been provided to assist the MOC
in (a) finalizing the sector strategy and restructuring plan, (b) carrying out detailed
engineering and preparing procurement documents, and (c) evaluating specific
investment proposals as requeszed by the MOC.
Phase Three, which will be carried out in the longer term, will continue to liberalize non-basic
services, and to privatize and/or introduce competition in basic services. The creation of a
licensing, regulatory capability, and commercialization/corporatization of the basic
telecommunication activities and gradual elimination of postal transfers, along with
improvements in the macro-economic environment would help reduce the country and project
risk thus making investments in basic services more attractive to private investors. IFC has
2/   Basic services include local, long distance, and international telecommunications. Other
services such as customer premise equipment provision, value-added services, data, leased
lines, etc. are defined as non-basic for the purposes caf this document.



3
indicated that it would be willing to: (i) assist in identifying strategic investors; and (ii) invest
in viable projects that are controlled by the private sector.
C. Rationale for IDA Involvement
4.   The IBRD/IDA Country Assistance Strategy for the Kyrgyz Republic was presented to the
Board in the context of the Rehabilitation Credit in May 1993. Based on a strong reform
scenario, the CAS set forth a program of policy advice, technical assistance, economic and
sector work, and lending to support the following kev objectives: (i) macroeconomic
stabilization through balance of payments support; (it) structural reforms covering' privatization,
enterprise and financial sector reforms, and private sector development; (iii) an effective social
safety net; (iv) sectoral reforms through operations in agriculture, infristructure, mining, and
environment; and (v} institution buildir g and reinforcement of the Government's impiementation
capacity. While priority has been placed on helping stabilize the economy and deepening the
structural reform effort, the Bank is increasingly exploring possibilities for simple investment
projects that can help induce a supply response in the productive sectors.   The
Telecommunications project will be the first such operation in the'Kyrgyz Republic and is fully
consistent witi the strategy laid out in the CAS. It meets three of the above CAS objectives
by (i) promoting private sector investment and governance .n state enterprises; lii) introducing
sector policy and regulatory reform to liberalize the provision of telecommunication services and
introduce competition where appropriate; and (iii) actively supporting institutional reforms in
the main telecommunications operator by improving its financial viability, operational efficiency,
client responsiveness; and attractiveness to private investors. Two additional operations for
the Kyrgyz Republic have already been negotiated. A proposed Privatization and Enterp,ise
Sector Adjustment Credit (PESAC) which supports privatization, enterprise restructuring and
private sector development will be presented for Board consideration in late June 1994. A
proposed Social Safety Net project, which helps ensure the provision of an effective and
adequate social safety net, will be presented to the Board in eariy FY95.
5.   The proposed project is consistent with the Bank's strategy in the telecommunications
sector, as recently presented to Bank Management, which calls for shifting the Government
from ownership and management to policy making and regulation, and promoting efficiency and
quality through commercialization of operational activities and competitive provision of services.
IDA involvement in this operation would facilitate the prospects for implementing the sector
reform program; build institutional capacity; determine a financially justified investment plan
and a sound strategy for overall financial viability of the sector. IDA involvement would also
catalyze other donor financing and lead to increased private sector participation in the longer
term.
D. Lessons from Experience
6.   IDA's telecommunication experience world-wide indicates four key lessons: (a) as a
country moves to a market economy, its service development objectives must shift over time
from subsidized coverage of households to meeting economic demand at prices that fully cover
costs; (b) substantial improvemnent in sector performance will not be achieved without a clear
policy and sound regulatory framework to fundamentally change the business environment and
incentives; (c) restructuring government departments is complex and requires adequate time
to introduce change and expert management of the reform process; and (d) key decisions
which materially affect implementation should be agreed prior to project approval.



4
E. Project Objectives
7.   The main objectives of the proposed Telecommunicasions Project are to assist the
Government to: (a) make priority replacement/expansion investments in telecommunications
in such a way as to best facilitate the country's economic growth and improve quality of
service; (b) build institutional capacity of the main telecommunications operator, particularly
managemnent and financial analysis skills, and commercialize and corporatize communication
activities; and (c) establish a regulatory and policy 'ramework for the restructuring of the
sector, aimed at liberalizing and attracting private sector investment to the sector.2/
F. Project Costs and Description
8.   Currently, the total project cost is estimated at US$ 31 million equivalent (US$ 26 million
foreign costs - see Schedule ..) and contains three components. The first component,
Reoiacementlfxoansion of the Telecommunications Network (US$ 25 million equivalent),
includes the implementation of a digital overlay network in high prictity demand areas for
business subscribers and othdr economic agents which will improve international access and
service quality for the c!erall network. The second component, Institutional Development 1US$
2.45 million equivalent), includes assistance to the telecommunications operator to carry out
the reforms outlined in para. 3.(b) and 3.{c) above. The third component, Sector Restructurina
(US$ 470,000 equivalent}, provides assistance to the MOC to carry out the reform program
as specified in para. 3.(a) and to train Ministry staff in regulation (including tariff setting,
spectrum frequency management, and li-rensing allocation criteria) and in policy formulation
with support from a training program.
G. Project Financing
9.   US$ 17.6 million would be on-lent to Kyrgyz Telecom with an amortization period of 20
years including a 5 year grace with capitalization of interest. Funds would be on-lent at IBRD's
standard variable interest rate. Kyrgyz Telecom would bear the foreign exchange risk. The IDA
Credit would finance the exchanges, local cable distribution network, and part of the technical
assistance and training for sector and institutional restructuring. EBRD would provide a US$
8 million loan plus a US$ 1.5 million grant to finance the transmission systems, the
international earth station, end some of the technical assistance and training (see Schedule
A).A/ Finally, MOC would iinance all local costs, including the construction of the local
cable network.
H. Project Implementation
10. MOC has created a Project Irm.plementation Unit (PIU) with key staff dedicated to
implementation of the proposed project. The PIU will include two engineers, one financial
expert, and one expert on sector restructuring. Two of the staff who are currently work;ng in
the PIU have gained implementation experience, particularly in procurement, through their
participation in implementation of the telecommunications component of the Rehabilitation
y/   Given perceptions of high country risk and lower rate of return prospects, private investors do not indicate
intercst in the local or long distance network at this time.
!I   The development of the Engineering Master Plan is currently underway and is financed by a Kuwait Pund
g8-t.



Credit. It is expected that PIU staff will be integrated into the new telecommunications
corporation. Disbursements would be made to the new telecommunications operator (Kyrgyz
Telecom) for the funds on-lent and to the MOC for all other funds. See Schedule B, Schedule
C, and Schedule D for procurement and disbursement plans, project processing, and Bank
operations.
1. Project Sustainability
11. Reforms necessary to improve all aspects of sector performance, including market
structure, institutional, technical and financial, and appropriate incentive systems would be
implemented under the project, Increases and periedic indexation in international, FSlJ, and
long distance call charges; adjustments of international account settlements; and improved
financial planning and management would ensure the financial viability of the
tele--ommunications operator.  In addition, an appropriate regulatory regime would be
established.
J. Issues and Conditionality
12. Durino Nenotiations. aareement was reached on: (a) key sector reform measures; (b)
financial covenants necessary to ensure financial sustainability of Kyrgyz Telecom in a high
inflation environment including indexation of international and CIS tariffs, further increases in
CIS business tariffs, a required debt service ratio of not less than 1.5, and elimination of
transfers from Kyrgyz Telecom to Posts; and (c) on-lerding arrangements acceptable to IDA
will be established between the GOK and the Kyrgyz Telecom; all of which are covenanted in
the legal documents. In addition, key assumptions reached during the appraisal mission on the
financial viability of Kyrgyz Telecom (tariff, traffic, subscriber volumes, etc.) were confirmed.
Coondiftio of Effectiveness are (a) an increase in CIS business tariffs according to a schedule
acceptable to IDA and to begin indexation of CIS tariffs for inflation; (b) all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan and Grant for the co-financing agency for the Project
will have been fulfilled; and (c) the on-lending agreement between the Kyrgyz Government and
Kyrgyz Telecom has been signed and put into effect.
K. Env:ronmental Aspects
13. More efficient use of telecommunications will substitute for personal and business
transport thus reducing environmental pollution and promoting energy conservation. Given the
existing infrastructure, only internal construction would be required in this project. This project
has been rated as a "C" project category, with no environmental risks.
L. Program Objectives Category
14. Functioning and reliable communications contribute to economic growth and
improvements in delivery of basic social services. Sector reforms foster private sector
investment and improved efficiency of government corporations.
M. Project Benefits
15. All sectors of the Kyrgyz economy stand to benefit from improved communications.
Telecommunications are a highly cost-effective and a preferred substitute for physical
transportation; particularly for long distance and international links. Liberalization of key



6
services alo.ig with better access to a higher quality and variety of telecommunication services
will increase businesses productivity and competitiveness, public sector efficiency, and
facilitate provision of emergency and social services. Structural reform will be beneficial to
the GOK by improving the sector's: (i, financial performance; (ii) user responsiveness; (iii)
overall productiviiy; and (ivl investment cost effectiveness.
N. Project Risks
16.  MOC ttas initiated a telecommunications reform program. A major project risk is that the
MOC may unintentionally institute retorms or issue licenses that are inconsistent with the long
run interests of the sector. To reduce tnis risk, assistance under the PPF and the planned
project would assist the MOC to; ti3 complete design ano mplement the reform program; and
{ii) secure advise an potenEial licenses or arrangernents which could materially impact sector
development. A second risk is continued loss of qualified telecommunication managers and
technical staff due to uncompetitive compensation., which could jeopardize the operational and
financial performance of the telecommunications operator. To reduce this risk, agreements to
give the operator commercial autonumy, authority to set competitive salaries, and reform tariffs
were reached with the GOK during appraisal and confirmed at negotiations  High inflation
presents a third potential risk. It was agreed at negotiations that tariff reforms for international
and FSU call charges will include iridexation to the US dollar to effectively hedge against
inflation and ernsure financial viability.
0. Recommendation
I 7.  I a.n satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
-he Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington. ID.C.
June 3, 1994



PROPOSED KYRGYZ TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
Category                     Objective                          Government Strategy                       Expected Action
1. Policy          Establish an appropriate policy framework  la) Send a letter or Sector Policy to IDA  (a) A Letter of Sector Policy was sent to
Framework          to ensure sustained sector development    articulating the sector policy and industry    IDA in March, 1994.5/
to meet demand.                        structure.
Ib) Develop and announce a Sector Reform   (b) Based on the draft Policy Statement.
Implementation Plan, discussed under     the MOC will prepare a detailed
categories 2 through 5.                  Implementation Plan by July 1994.
(c) Develop and present to Parliament    Icl MOC to prepare with re1evant
telecommunications legislation necessary  Government Ministries and agencies and
to implement the announced sector       present to Parliament the necessary
policies.                                telecoms tegi'4ation for the approved
Sector Policy by April 30, 1995.
2. Regulatory      Establish an appiopriate, transparent   Separate regulatory functions from      (a) MOC will include a section in ithe new
Framework          regulatory framework to ensure a level  operations and issue decree establishing a   telecommunications law separating
playing field for all potential players and    regulatory body.                 regulatory functions from operations.
that obligations of parties are enforced.
tb1 Onca approved by Parliament, the
IMOC will create a regulawory group by
June 30, 1995.
3. Tariff Reform   Begin to rationatize tariffs (structure and   Identify mechanisms to begin to rebalrtance   Tarifts to be inmreased according to a
levels).                               tarif1s and establish an appropriate     policy ard schedtJe acceprable to IDA oni
settlement and inter-connection regime.  an on-going basis.
(a) As a first step, intetrational tnor CIS)
tariffs have been revised tn accer .:
international levels.
Ib) AMOC is implementing a tariff reform
program agreed with IDA during
appraisal. The plan includes real rises in
C1S telephone tariffs and indexatior to
the US$. Reform of long distance and
loca; oall charges and installation and
rental fees is also included --the reforms
have begun and will continue according
to an agreed policy through 199 7.
0
A/ Actions in italics are in progress or completed.



4. Liberalization  Improve and expand telecommunications   (a) Issue a license to the main           (a) Consultants recruited by the MOC
and Private Sector   services by removing barriers to entry in   telecommunications operator by the end of  with ID  P;;f funding will assist in the
Participation      the provision of services and equipment    1995.                                  drafting of a license for the mai'
in key market segments and increased                                             operator.
private sector participation.
lb) Grant licenses/franchises to the private  fb) The Consultants ((a) above) will
sector for the provision of rural services in   assist the MOC to identify methods to
agreed upon areas beginning by the end of  fecilitate the provision of licenses for
1995.                                    rurai services.
(c) Fully liberalize the provision of customer  (c) Policy statement (item  (a,' above)
premise equipment (CFEI and value added   includes full liberalization of key
services (VAS) and domestic data services,  segments.
(dl Invite proposals aimed at issuing a  (d) The consultants ((a) above) will assist
license tor local pay phone service      the MOC to identify methods to faciltiate
(including but not limited to Bishkekl to the  the provision of licenses fIr local pay
private sector by June 30, 1996.         phone services.
5. Main Operator    lmp1ove the performance of the         (a) Split post and telecommunication      (a) Posts and telecommunication
Performance and    telecommunications operator to enable it  functions.                              futnctions to be split and
Development        to compete with other service providers.                                          telecommunications operations to be
corporatized by the end of 1995.
(b) Transform the telecommunications     (b) Intfoduction of commercial practice'
operations into a separate corporation with  into telecommunication and postal
competent management and systems to      activities begun and on-going.
fully operate on a commercial basis.
(c) Train telecommunications management   (c) Specialized training will be provided
and staff to operate cornmercially.      for telecommunications management and
staff.
rt s
:4>
0D{
Xe



SCHEDULE A
Page 1 of 2
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
------ US$ Million-----------------------------------
COMtvPONENT                            Foreign    Local Cos,    Total Cost  IDA      NIF 2/
Cost
A. Replac  'ant/Expansion
of the , - 'work
Network Exchanges                   9.60       0.90          10.50       9.60
Distribution Cables                 4.00       2.00           6.00       4.00
Inter-Exchange Cable                1.00       0.10           1.10       0.40    0.60
Transmission Systems                2.00       0.20           2.20                2.00
Multiplex Equipment                 0,50       0.10           0.60                0.50
International Exchange              1.00       0.10           1.10       1.00
Earth Station                       3.00       0.50           3.50                3.00
Sub-Total                       21.10       3.90          25.00      15.00    6.10
B. Institonal Development
Computer Systems                    0 40       0.10           0.50       0.40
Technical Assistance - Prep 1/
- Engineering Design Study        0.25       0.01          0.26        0.25
Technical Assistance - ImpI
- Advisors: DG, Finance           0.30       0.01          0.31                 0.30
-Advisor: PIU                     0.15       0.01           0.16       0.15
- Consultants: Acct/FinlBilling   0.30       0.01          0.31                 0.30
- Consultants - Incentive         0.10       0.01          0.11                 0.10
- Programn/Cust. Service
Training                            0.70       0.10          0.80                0.70
Sub-Total                        2.20       0.25           2.45       0.80     1.40
C. Sector Restructuning                 0.20
Technical Assistance Prep 1t
- Sector Restructuring Plan       0.20        0.00          0.20       0.20
Technical Assistance - ImpI.
- Advisor to Minister             0.10       0.01          0.1         0.10
- Consultant: Reg Reform ImpI     0.10       0.01          0.11        0.10
Training                            0.05       0.00           0.06       0.05
Sub-Total                        0.45       0.02           0.47      0.45
Total Base Cost                       23.75       4.17          27.92       16.25    7.50
Physical Contingencies              1.07       0.40           1.47       0.80    0.27
Price Contingencies                 1.20       0.40           1.61       0.95    0.25
Total                   2.6.02                    4.97          31.00       18.00    8.n2
Note:
1/  Includes $450,000 of technical assistance advanced under a Project Preparation
Facility (PPF 847-0 KG).
2/  NIF - Not IDA Financed



SCHEDULE A
Page 2 of 2
Proiect Financing
- US$ Million equivalent -
Foreign      Local       Total
IDA                18.0         0.0         18.0
EBRD                8.0         0.0         - 8.0
MOC                 0.0         5.0          5.0
Total            26.0         5.0         31.0



SCHEDULE B
Page 1 of 2
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ millions)
rocuw.ttne-1 ;tenl lto(Q
Project Elernerit      RGB          tCf3        Other         NiP 3;     T otal
1. RehabilitationmExprnsion   20.36                               /.34        28.00
the network              i1620)                                            (16.70)
2. Training                                         0.05          0.80        0.85
(0.05)                    (0.05}
3. Technical Assistance 2.                          0.84          0.73         1.57
(0.80i                    (0.80)
4. Computer Systems          0.57                                              0.57
(0.45)                                            (0.45)
Total                      20.93                  (0.89)         9.17        31.00*
(17.15)                 (0.85)                    (18.00)
Note:
(1) Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit.
(2) IDA Guidelines for selection of consultants.
(3) NIF - Not IDA Financed.
Slight difference in total is due to rounding.
DISBURSEMENTS
Amount of the Credit         % of Expenditures
Category               Allocated US$ Equivafent         to be Financed
Te(ecomrnunications               1 5. 000,000                100% of foreign cost
E-J:pmernt and Services
?. 2)rT p-iter Systems                 400.000                          100%
3  Tec!hrucai Assistance                800,000                         100%
;nrC?ling PPF}
4. Trafnirqg                             l0.000                         100%
5. Unadlocated                        1,750.000G
TOTAL                                18.000,000



SCHEDULE 8
Page 2 of 2
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT OF IDA CREDIT
IDA'S FY      1995  1996  1997  1998   1999   2000   2001
Annual       .54   2.70  4.32   4.32    3.60   2.16    .36
Cumulative    .54   3.24  7.56   11.88   15.48   17.64  18.00



SCHEDULE C
KYHGYZ REPUBLIC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(a) Time Taken to Prepare:       22 months
-(b) Prepared by:                 Ministry of Communications, Kyrgyz Repubh,c
with IDA assistance
(c) First IDA mission:           June 1992 *
(d} Appraisal Mission departure:  March 11, 1994
(e) Negotiations:                May 1994
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:    August 1994
(g) List of relevant PCR's and PPARs: None applicable
X Preparation for the project was begun on a mission to finalize the telecommunications
component of the Rehabilitation Credit 2491 - KYR.
This report is based on the findings of IDA mission that visited the Kyrgyz Republic in June
1993, November 1993, February 1994, and March 1994. This report was prepared by
Messrs./Mmes. Cruzat (Senior Financial Analyst); Vidal (Senior Telecommunications
Engineer); lshee (Task Manager); Tintchev (Telecommunications Engineer); Chunsanit; and
Green (Office Assistant). The lead advisor for the project was Ms. Holt and the peer
reviewers were Mr. Yaprak and Ms. Leijonhufvud. The Division Chief is Jonathan Brown,
and the Country Director is Russell Cheetham.



SCHEDULE D
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of AprIl 30, 1994)
Loan or     Fiscal                              US $ Million 
Credit No.   Year   Borrower        PurDose          Bank  IDA    Undisbursed
CR. 2491    1993  I(yrgyz Republic  Rehab Credit             60.8    24.2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
None to Date



-I) Si      m    yC;r,,   
_1                                                      0   ;    
l '4                           I.>



