Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2634 KG
                       Development Credit Agreement
                       (Telecommunications Project)
                                  between
                              KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated July 7, 1994
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2634 KG
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 7, 1994, between KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   the Association has received a letter, dated March 29, 1994,
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies
designated to improve the efficiency of the Borrower's telecommunications
sector (hereinafter called the Program) and declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program;
      (C)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) a loan and a grant in an aggregate
amount of approximately eight million nine hundred thousand Dollars
($8,900,000) (the EBRD Financing) to assist in financing part of the Project
on terms and conditions to be set forth in an agreement (the EBRD
Agreements) to be entered into by EBRD and the Borrower;
      (D)   Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by State
Enterprise Kyrgyz Telecom (KT) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
Page  2
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to KT a portion of the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even
date herewith between the Association and KT;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange
of letters, dated January 13, 1994 and February 1, 1994, between the
Borrower and the Association;
      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered into
between the Borrower and KT pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (d)   "MOC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Communications;
      (e)   "KT" means State Enterprise Kyrgyz Telecom, a company
established by Decree 64, dated February 14 and Order of MOC dated February
21, 1994 pursuant to the laws of the Borrower;
      (f)   "Statutes" means the KT's corporate charter adopted on April 1,
1994 as amended from time to time;
      (g)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and KT, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
      (h)   "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit to be maintained
within KT in accordance with Section 1 of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement; and
      (i)   "Basic Telecommunication Services" means local, long distance
and international telephone, telex and telegraph services.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million
eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,800,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Page  3
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to the Bank
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15,
2004 and ending April 15, 2029. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on April 15, 2014 shall be one and one-fourth percent
(1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
Page  4
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end:
            (i)   shall carry out Part C of Schedule 2 of the Project with
                  due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
                  appropriate administrative and financial practices and
                  shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
                  services and other resources required for such Part of
                  the Project; and
            (ii)  without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
                  obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
                  Borrower shall cause KT to perform all its obligations
                  set forth in the Project Agreement, shall take or cause
                  to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
                  facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
                  appropriate to enable KT to perform such obligations, and
                  shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
                  would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall relend in Dollars a portion of the proceeds
of the Credit to KT under a subsidiary loan agreement entered into between
the Borrower and KT, under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association which shall include a variable interest rate equal to the
current IBRD lending rate, adjustable each six months, a grace period of
five years followed by a repayment period of 15 years and the foreign
exchange risk to be borne by KT.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for Part C of
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of Parts A and B of the Project shall be carried
out by KT pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of Part C of the Project set forth in Schedule 2 of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out such Part C of the
Project or any part thereof.
Page  5
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views with regard to the
Borrower's tariff policies and its plans in respect of the overall
development of the telecommunications sector.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, through MOC, authorize KT to set its tariffs
at such levels as shall be consistent with KT's obligations under Sections
4.02, 4.03 and 4.04 of the Project Agreement.
      (c)   Prior to the issuance of any new license or conclusion of
arrangements with third parties affecting the Basic Telecommunications
Services, the Borrower shall establish to the satisfaction of the
Association that any such license or arrangement do not have a negative
impact on KT's financial obligations under the Project Agreement.
      Section 4.03. Not later than June 30, 1995, the Borrower shall
establish a regulatory function for telecommunications separate from the
policy making function with adequate authorities within MOC.
      Section 4.04. Not later than April 30, 1995, the Borrower shall submit
to its parliament a new draft telecommunications law, acceptable to the
Borrower and the Association.
      Section 4.05. Not later than June 30, 1995, the Borrower shall issue
a license to KT, satisfactory to the Borrower and Association, authorizing
KT to provide, inter alia, local, long distance and international voice
telecommunication services and shall have caused the Republican Production
Association of Microwave Trunks, Television and Radio Broadcasting to
conclude an interconnection agreement with KT authorizing KT's usage of
transmission and other telecommunications facilities required for its
operations.
      Section 4.06. Not later than June 30, 1996, the Borrower shall have
taken all necessary measures to evaluate through a competitive process and,
if found satisfactory, to select and contract with at least one private
company for the provision of local public pay phone services (including, but
not necessarily limited, to Bishkek City), e-mail, and such other services
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
      Section 4.07. Not later than June 30, 1997, the Borrower shall prepare
and submit to the Association a plan evaluating private investment
opportunities in Basic Telecommunications Services.
      Section 4.08. During the course of this Project starting from the
Effective Date, the Borrower shall ensure that KT shall not make any
transfers to the Postal Department or MOC for the benefit of the Postal
Department.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
Page  6
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   KT shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
      (b)    As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that KT will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   The Statutes or the license referred to in Section 4.05 of this
Agreement of KT shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of KT to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of KT or for
the suspension of its operations.
      (e)   (i)   Subject to the exception stipulated in subparagraph (ii)
                  of this paragraph:
                  (A)   The right of KT to withdraw the proceeds of the
                        EBRD Financing made to KT for the financing of the
                        Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
                        terms of the EBRD Agreements, or
                  (B)   the loan agreement with the EBRD shall have become
                        due and payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof in accordance with its terms.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
                  Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
                  Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
                  termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure
                  of the Borrower or KT to perform any of its obligations
                  under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                  Project are available to the Borrower or KT from other
                  sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
                  obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f) (ii) of
that Section.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and KT;
      (b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the EBRD
Financing, save for the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been
fulfilled; and
      (c)   KT has taken all necessary measures as shall be consistent with
Page  7
the provisions of Section 4.04 (a) of the Project Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by KT and is legally binding upon KT in accordance with its terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and KT and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
KT in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Communications of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Minister of Communications
            Ministry of Communications
            720000, Bishkek
            Chuy Prospect No. 96
            Kyrgyz Republic
                                                Telex:
                                                  2513 34 RTBSU
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                        By /s/ A. Chukin
                        Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  8
                        By /s/ R. Cheetham
                        Acting Regional Vice President
                        Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated            % of
                             ( Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                     SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)     Equipment and             10,600,000        100% of foreign
    related services                                expenditures
(2)     Computer systems             280,000        100%
(3)     Consultants'
    services:
    (a) under Parts A                110,000        100%
        and B of the
        Project
    (b) under Part C                 140,000        100%
        of the Project
(4) Training under                    40,000        100%
    Part C.3 of
    the Project
(5)     Refunding of Project         320,000        Amounts due pur-
    Preparation Advance                             suant to Section
                                                    2.02 (c) of this
                                                    Agreement
(6)     Unallocated                1,310,000
                                  __________
        TOTAL                     12,800,000
                                  ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower
for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
that of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to modernize and develop the
telecommunications network, upgrade the sectoral management skills to
function in a market-oriented economy and to restructure the
telecommunications sector.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
Page  9
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Upgrading/Expansion of the Telecommunications Network
          by a Digital Overlay
1.  Implementation of a new international exchange in Bishkek with a total
capacity of about 1,000 trunks.
2.  Upgrading and expansion of the long distance transmission facilities
through the installation of digital microwave links between Bishkek and the
cities of Osh, Jalal-Abad, Karakol, Talas and Narin.
3.  Upgrading/expansion of the cable network in the cities where the new
exchanges will be installed for 60% of the capacity of the new exchanges or
about 26,000 lines.
4.  Upgrading/expansion of the inter-exchange circuit capacity in the cities
of Bishkek, Osh, Jalal-Abad, Talas and Narin through the installation of
fiber-optic cables.
5.  Upgrading/expansion of the multiplex equipment to interconnect the
transmission links to the exchanges in about 5,000 channels.
6.  Upgrading of local exchanges in Bishkek, Osh, Jalal-Abad, Cholpon-Ata,
Karakol, Talas and Narin amounting to about 43,000 telephone lines.
Part B:   Institutional Development
1.  Strengthening of the operational and institutional capacity of the PIU.
2.  Strengthening of the capacity of KT in accounting, finance, audit
controls and practices, staff management, customer service and
computerization and provision of scholarships for telecommunications related
training abroad.
3.  Training of executives and staff of KT in commercial practices in
telecommunications, including management, finance, accounting, customer
service/marketing and human resource development.
Part C:   Telecommunications Sector Restructuring
1.  Enhancing of a sector reform program and implementation plan,
preparation of the telecommunications law and its implementation
regulations, preparation of licenses to be issued on the basis of the new
telecommunications law and preparation of interconnection agreements.
2.  Training of MOC staff in telecommunications regulation and policy
formulation.
3.  Business training for selected individuals in developing and
establishing entrepreneurial activities in the telecommunications sector.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
    Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
Page  10
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component
of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed
to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Association.
Part B:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants' Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultants' Guidelines requiring prior Association review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each in the case
of firms and $50,000 in the case of employment of individuals. However, this
exception to prior Association review shall not apply to the terms of
reference for such contracts or to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Association
or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above in the case of firms and $50,000 in the case of
employment of individuals.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4)
Page  11
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $250,000 to
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
                shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
Page  12
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
