Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4859 
Operation Name 
Comoros Development Policy Loan 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General Public Administration (100%) 
Project ID 
P117229 
Borrower(s) 
UNION OF COMOROS 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance of the Union 
Date PID Prepared 
June 11, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 05, 2010  
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 1, 2010 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
While Comoros’ economy has proved resilient to the political crisis of 2008 and to the global economic 
downturn, but economic growth remains too low to have an impact on poverty.  Economic activity in 
2008 was hampered by a political crisis in Anjouan and a major petroleum products supply crisis
1
.
Depletion of fuel reserves and ensuing energy shortages brought economic activity to a standstill over 
the summer. These difficulties were compounded by curtailment of credit to the private sector from the 
major commercial bank, due to a protracted legal dispute. Simultaneously, higher international oil and 
food prices penalized this highly import-dependent economy.  Nonetheless, real GDP growth was 
maintained at 1 percent in 2008: a rebound in retail and construction activities in the last quarter of the 
year partly offset the marked decline in the first half of the year.  Growth for 2009 is estimated to have 
remained at 1 percent (Table 1), which is well below population growth. 
 
The Bank has developed considerable expertise in helping fragile economies emerging from years of 
instability. Among the critical areas that need attention in fragile states are improvements in public 
financial management, particularly budgeting preparation and implementation, and in establishing public 
sector accountability through reforms in the civil service. The Government values the Bank’s expertise 
in these areas and has sought its assistance as it works with donor partners to achieve equitable and 
growth-oriented development. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The overarching objective of the proposed operation is to strengthen Comoros’ transition from fragility 
to resilience.  As part of a multi-donor program, the operation will focus on two main policy areas: (i) 
improving public financial management, primarily in areas of budget preparation and management and 
(ii) strengthening public sector efficiency and accountability, focusing on improvements in core 
personnel management systems 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed operation seeks to tackle some of the key underlying causes of fragility and conflict in 
Comoros and to strengthen the legitimacy of the state by addressing (i) widespread public dissatisfaction 
1
Following the cancellation of a long-standing supply contract with TOTAL. 
Page  2
with the lack of transparency in the management of public resources, and (ii) weaknesses in public 
service delivery which can be traced to poor management of the civil service. In the short term it seeks 
to mitigate some of the more immediate threats to reconciliation and stabilization in Comoros namely (i) 
the accumulation of domestic wage arrears creating unsustainable pressure on wages and on the budget 
–which could ultimately translate into new external debt arrears, as well as the related (ii) possibility that 
Comoros might not remain on track with the IMF program and therefore loose eligibility for HIPC and 
MDRI relief in the short term. In the short to medium term it seeks to support the authorities in their 
efforts to carry out key reforms in PFM and Civil Service Management that will not only restore the 
state’s legitimacy and credibility but also lay the foundations of future growth and poverty reduction 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The proposed operation focuses on institutional reforms and will only indirectly impact on the 
environment. However the benefits to the environment stemming from the project could ultimately be 
significant, particularly as the project reinforces the Government’s PRSP which has environmental 
sustainability as one of its six core themes. Through improved public financial management, the 
government is expected to be able to make better use of planning and funding instruments to design and 
implement activities that will help the Comoros sustain its fragile island environment. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
3 
 Total 
3 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Aurelien Kruse 
Title: Economist 
Tel: (254-20-3226449) 
Fax: (254-20-3226380) 
Email: 
akruse@worldbank.org
