Download Date: 5/12/2010 - 8:22 AM
Current Classification: FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                                                           54355
                                                                                                           v2

                       Union of the Comoros-Assessment Letter for the World Bank and other Multilateral
                                            and Bilateral Development Partners

                                                            May 11,2010


                     Performance under the Extended Credit Facility (ECF)-supported program has been broadly
                     satisfactory through end-March 2010, although implementation has weakened in the last
                     months owing to renewed political tensions. In discussions with an IMF staff team that
                     visited Moroni during April 6-20, 2010, the authorities concurred about the need to swiftly
                     address weakening program performance; and agreed to corrective policies to preserve the
                     medium-term objectives of the reform agenda. Formal cabinet approval in late April has
                     opened the way for concluding the first ECF review; and allowing Comoros' access to the
                     HIPC Initiative Decision Point. Board consideration is tentatively set for June.

                     Political context

                     Opposition resistance to President Sambi's term extension beyond the initial May 2010
                     limit has reignited political tensions. The president's ruling coalition won a decisive
                     majority in the December 2009 parliamentary elections and extended the presidential term to
                     late 2011. This has created frictions between Union and island officials. Intense African
                     l!nion-sponsored mediation efforts are under way to avoid a return of political instability.

                     Recent macroeconomic performance and progress in structural reforms

                     Developments in the real and external sectors were encouraging in 2009. Economic
                     growth is estimated to have slightly increased to 1.8 percent, from 1 percent in 2008,
                     reflecting the effects of an uptick in donor support and foreign direct investment in banking;
                     and resilient remittances. Inflation remained broadly under control, owing to a fall in world
                     energy and food prices. A strengthening of the terms oftrade and significant external budget
                     assistance helped narrow the external current account deficit to 7.9 percent of GDP in 2009
                     from 11.3 percent of GDP in 2008. Gross international reserves rose to the equivalent of
                     7.1 months of imports, driven by assistance from development partners and the general and
                     special allocations of special drawing rights (SDRs) from the IMF to member countries.

                     A programmed strengthening of the fiscal position did not materialiZe, but monetary
                     conditions were supportive. The authorities slightly exceeded their 2009 revenue target.
                     However, progress in budget consolidation was frustrated by overruns on current spending,
                     including personnel outlays, as the authorities continued experiencing difficulties in
                     managing the wage bill, which increased to 9 percent ofGDP (8.8 percent ofGDP in 2008)
                     compared with a program target of8.7 percent ofGDP. Also, the government granted a
                     CF 1.7 billion (0.9 percent of GDP) capital transfer to Comoros Telecoms to help the
                     stated-owned company meet its share of the cost of a regional under-ocean optic fiber
Download Date: 5/12/2010 - 8:22 AM
Current Classification: FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                                    2


                    communication cable project. As a result of these developments, the domestic primary
                    budget deficit stagnated at 2.6 percent of GDP close to the level in 2008, compared with a
                    program objective of 1.6 percent of GDP. Reflecting enhanced financial intermediation,
                    credit to the private sector substantially increased, accruing mostly to short-term trade
                    activities.

                    Progress on structural reforms was broadly satisfactory, although several benchmarks
                    were implemented with delays. As agreed under the ECF-supported program, the'
                    government: (i) appointed a permanent secretary for the reform-monitoring committee;
                    (ii) completed comprehensive reform strategies for strengthening revenue mobilization and
                    improving expenditure management; (iii) prepared consolidated quarterly fiscal accounts,
                    timely communicated to Fund staff; (iv) maintained an automatic fuel price adjustment
                    mechanism; (v) completed an audit of domestic arrears (with technical support from the EU),
                    and a related arrears clearance strategy; (vi) submitted ministerial organic frameworks to
                    parliament; and (vii) successfully tested a new computerized system for managing civil
                    service wages. However, the government has yet to complete consultations with the IFC on
                    the reform options for the telecommunications and hydro-carbon importing companies, a
                    delayed end-September 2009 structural benchmark.

                     Overall performance under the ECF-supported program has thus been broadly
                     satisfactory.

                     ·        Program performance through end-December 2009. Seven of eight quantitative
                              performance indicators were observed. Revenue collection was somewhat stronger
                              than programmed partly reflecting customs administration efficiency gains, but also
                              made possible by receipts from the special economic citizenship program. However,
                              the domestic primary budget deficit (a program benchmark) was exceeded by
                              1.1 percent ofGDP owing to spending overruns on wage and transfer outlays.
                              Nevertheless, the target on net domestic credit to the government (a performance
                              criterion) was narrowly met. All but one structural indicators were met, albeit with
                              delays in many cases. In particular, the government has yet to agree with the IFC on
                              the reform options for the telecommunications and hydro-carbon importing
                              companies. Cabinet approval of these will constitute a prior action for Board
                              consideration of the first review under the ECF.

                     ·        Program implementation at end-March 2010. Heightened political tensions
                              weakened revenue administration and further deteriorated wage policy in the first
                              quarter, with the authorities granting a 25-percent salary increase to teachers effective
                              October 2010. The revenue target was missed by a small margin, but the target on the
                              domestic primary fiscal deficit was met as the authorities effected cuts in goods and
                              services and domestically-funded investment spending. However, the benchmark on
                              net domestic credit to the government was exceeded by 0.3 percent of GDP,
                              reflecting wage arrears repayments beyond program expectations. In the structural
Download Date: 5/1212010 - 8:22 AM
Current Classification: FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                                    3

                             area, computerization of wage payments was conclusively tested, setting the stage for
                             routine operation in the coming months. Moreover, in April the government
                             submitted to parliament a draft law on new ministry personnel frameworks
                             (benchmark for end-March). Approval and implementation would help reduce civil
                             service employment by about 15 percent to levels compatible with medium-term
                             budget viability.

                    The outlook under the ECF-supported program

                     Reforms supported by the Fund under the ECF aim to achieve the following medium-
                     term macroeconomic objectives: (i) real GDP growth of3Yz percent by 2012; (ii) an
                     inflation rate corttained below 3 percent, under the zone franc currency peg; (iii) limitation of
                     the extemal current account deficit to just below 12 percent ofGDP by 2012; and (iv) raising
                     the investment ratio to 17.6 percent of GDP by 2012. Realization of these objectives would
                     help enhance the efficiency of the country's poverty reduction strategy, facilitating progress
                     toward the MDGs.

                     Consistent with the above, growth is expected to firm further in 2010, supported by a
                     healthier external environment, higher donor-funded spending for public works, and
                     resumption of private sector infrastructure projects in tourism, following the just
                     concluded Arab League conference on development and investment in Comoros. Preliminary
                     indications point to continuing low pressures on domestic prices in 2010; and to a broadly
                     stable trade balance deficit. The reserve position is expected to remain comfortable. Key
                     risks to the economic outlook relate to political frictions between the Union and island
                     authorities; the politically difficult streamlining of public service staffing levels may be
                     delayed as a result. This highlights the importance of timely completion of the public service
                     census, which is to be completed with the assistance of the World Bank.

                     The authorities concur about the need to resume fiscal consolidation in support oftheir
                     macroeconomic objectives, targeting a reduction of the domestic primary deficit to
                     1.2 percent of GDP in 2010. They are intensifying ongoing efforts to strengthen tax and
                     customs administration, and have introduced new fiscal measures; all of which would raise
                     revenue to 14 percent of GDP in 2010. Key revenue measures include the elimination of ad
                     hoc tax exemptions, introduction of higher excise duties on an array of commodities,
                     extension of ASYCUDA++ to most customs posts, expanded ad valorem import taxation,
                     and a refocusing of the Large Taxpayer Unit's activities. In the spending area, more efforts
                     are made to better align spending to available government resources by ensuring a more
                     effective operation of the Treasury committee, with a view to avoiding accumulation of new
                     non wage domestic arrears. A strategy for a phased clearing of existing ones is being
                     implemented consistent with mobilized external assistance.

                     Current indications are that an estimated financing gap ofCFs 6,644 billion
                     (3.3 percent of GDP) for 2010 can be fully filled with assistance from donors, including
                     the World Bank, African Development Bank, and European Union.
Download Date: 5/12/2010 - 8:22 AM
Current Classification: FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                                  4

                    In the structural area, program focus will be on measures to strengthen control over the
                    wage bill and initiate restructuring ofthe petroleum importing, telecommunications,
                    and electricity parastatals. The authorities have successfully tested their new computerized
                    wage management system, and intend to move to routine operation in the coming months. In
                    April, they submitted to parliament new personnel frameworks for government ministries
                    that are consistent with medium-term budget viability. These are expected to become
                    operational in 2011, which would reduce civil service employment by an estimated
                    15 percent. The government, with the assistance of the International Finance
                    Corporation (IFC), is finalizing reform strategies for the telecommunications and
                    hydrocarbons parastatals, aimed to enlist strategic partners of international repute in
                    management. An AfDB-sponsored consultant will soon be recruited to help prepare a similar
                    reform strategy for the electricity utility, MA-MWE. The government remains committed to
                    not interfering with the price-setting and marketing mechanisms for export crops (vanilla,
                    cloves, and ylang-ylang).

                     HIPC and MDRI debt relief is crucial to ensuring Comoros' medium-term external debt
                     sustainability. Public external debt amounted to $285.9 million (54 percent ofGDP) at end-
                     2009, before Paris Club debt relief, including $53.8 million (10 percent ofGDP) in arrears-:-
                     21.6 percent of which to Paris Club creditors. The latest HIPC DSA assessed a NPV of debt-
                     to-exports ratio of 331 percent at end-2009, which would decline to 88.4 percent under the
                     assumption ofHIPCIMDRI debt relief being achieved in 2012. Under this scenario, the debt
                     service ratio would be reduced to 4.6 percent in 2012, from 12.4 percent in 2009.

                     Relations with the Fund

                     In September 2009, the IMF Board approved a new three-year (2009-12) program supported
                     under the ECF; on March 29, 2010, the Board discussed a preliminary HIPC decision point
                     document. A staff team carried out the first ECF review and finalized preparations for the
                     HIPC Decision Point document in Moroni during April 6-20. Cabinet approval in late April
                     of an agreed program framework for 2010 has opened the way for the conclusion of the
                     review and Comoros' access to the HIPC decision point. Board consideration is tentatively
                     scheduled for late June.
