                                             Document of
                                           The World Bank
                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                        Report No. 54355-KM




                            INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                                         PROGRAM DOCUMENT FOR
                                           A PROPOSED GRANT


                                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2 MILLION
                                      (US$3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                        TO

                                          UNION OF THE COMOROS

                                                      FOR A

                         ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE REFORM SUPPORT GRANT

                                                  MAY 3, 2010




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 2
Eastern Africa Country Cluster 2
Africa Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                     Union of the Comoros - GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                                   January, 1 ­ December, 31
                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                     (as of March 31, 2010)

                            Currency Unit = Comorian Franc (KMF)
                              US$1.00         = KMF 361.34
                              SDR1.00           1.52= USD


                             Weights and Measures: Metric System

                           ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS
                                      (as applicable, plus others)

AfDB    African Development Bank                       LDP           Letter of Development Policy
                                                       LICUS         Low Income Country Under Stress
AfDF  African Development Fund                         MDGs          Millennium Development Goals
BADEA Banque Arabique de Developpement des             MDRI          Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative
      Etats Africains (Arab Bank for Economic
      Development in Africa)
CFAA Country Financial Accountability                  MOE           Ministry of Education
      Assessment
DP    Development Partner                              MOF           Ministry of Finance
DPO   Development Policy Operation                     MOH           Ministry of Health
EC    European Commission                              MTEF          Medium-Term Expenditure
ECF   Extended Credit Facility                         PEFA          Framework
EGTA Economic Governance Technical                                   Public Expenditure and Financial
      Assistant Project                                              Assessment
EPCA Emergency Post Conflict Assistance
EGTA Economic Governance                               PER           Public Expenditure Review
      Technical Assistance                             PFM           Public Financial Management
EU    European Union                                   PHRD          Japan Policy and Human Resource
                                                                     Development Trust Fund
                                                       PPF           Project Preparation Facility
GDP     Gross Domestic Product                         PRSP          Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
GNP     Gross National Product                         ROSC          Report on the Observance of
                                                                     Standards and Codes
HACS    High Authority of Civil Service                SA            Safeguard Assessment
HIPC    Heavily Indebted Poor Countries                SDR           Special Drawing Rights
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and      SME           Small and Medium Enterprises
        Development
IDA     International Development Association          TA            Technical Assistance
IDF     Institutional Development Fund
IFC     International Finance Corporation              UNDP          United Nations Development
                                                                     Program
IMF     International Monetary Fund
ISN     Interim Strategy Note
JSAN    Joint Staff Advisory Note

                             Vice President:     Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                           Country Director:     Johannes C.M. Zutt
                            Sector Manager:      Kathie Krumm
                          Task Team Leader:      Aurélien Kruse
                                                   UNION OF THE COMOROS

                          ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE REFORM SUPPORT GRANT

                                                        TABLE OF CONTENTS


CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ...................................................................................... i
I.         INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................... 1
II.        COUNTRY CONTEXT ...................................................................................................... 1
                 RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN COMOROS ........................................... 2
                 MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY ........................... 4
III.       THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM AND PARTICIPATORY PROCESSES .......... 6
IV.        SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM .................................................... 7
                 COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS ................................... 8
                 RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BANK OPERATIONS ..................................................... 9
                 LESSONS LEARNED ............................................................................................................ 9
                 ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS .................................................................................... 10
V.         THE PROPOSED GRANT ................................................................................................ 10
                 OPERATION DESCRIPTION .............................................................................................. 10
                 POLICY AREAS ..................................................................................................................... 12
VI.        OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION................................................................................ 16
                 POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACTS ................................................................................. 16
                 ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS ........................................................................................... 16
                 IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION ....................................... 17
                 FIDUCIARY ASPECTS ......................................................................................................... 17
                 DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING .................................................................................. 18
                 RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION ....................................................................................... 18


                                                                    ANNEXES

ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY ................................................................. 21
ANNEX 2: POLICY MATRIX ....................................................................................................... 25
ANNEX 3: FUND RELATIONS NOTE......................................................................................... 28
ANNEX 4: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE ........................................................................................ 31
ANNEX 5: DPOs IN FRAGILE STATES HAVE BEEN MAINSTREAMED ­ MOSTLY IN
SUPPORT OF PFM REFORMS .................................................................................................... 33
ANNEX 6: MAP ............................................................................................................................... 34
                                                           List of Boxes

Box 1: Prior Actions for this Grant Operation and Possible Triggers for a Follow-On Operation .......... 12
Box 2: Good Practice Principles for Conditionality ................................................................................. 15

                                                          List of Tables

Table 1: Main economic indicators: 2005-2012 ......................................................................................... 3
Table 2: Nominal Stocks and Net Present Value of Debt at end-2009 by Creditor Groups ...................... 5
Table 3: Comoros: Areas of Donor Technical Support (Ongoing and Planned) ....................................... 8




  The Economic governance reform support program Grant was prepared by an IDA team led by Aurélien Kruse
  (AFTP2) and comprising Charles Coste (AFTFM), Wolfgang Fengler (AFTP2), Roger Sullivan (AFTP2), Raj
  Soopramanien (LEGAF), Luis Schwarz (CTRFC), Javier Suarez (AFTFE), and Johannes Widmann (AFCKE).
                            CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY

                                  UNION OF THE COMOROS

                  ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE REFORM SUPPORT GRANT

Borrower          Union of the Comoros
Implementing      Ministry of Finance of the Union of the Comoros
Agency
Financing Data    SDR 2 million (US$3 million equivalent)
Operation         Single tranche programmatic
Type
Main Policy       The proposed development policy operation will strengthen the state
Areas             capacity building process, as part of a multi-donor-supported program,
                  focusing on two main policy areas: (i) improving public financial
                  management and (ii) fostering public sector efficiency and accountability,
                  focusing on core personnel management systems.
Key Outcome       Key outcome indicators under the PFM area will be: improved efficiency
Indicators        and transparency of the expenditure chain and enhanced implementation and
                  monitoring of budget execution. Key outcome indicators under the public
                  sector efficiency and accountability area will be: improved management of
                  the wage bill and improved deployment of civil service human resources.
Program           The overarching objective of the proposed operation is to strengthen
Development       Comoros` transition from fragility to resilience. It directly supports two of
Objective(s)      the PRSP`s six strategic axes, namely (i) axis one, on economic stabilization
and               and equitable growth, emphasizing improvements in government and fiscal
Contribution to   operations; as well as (ii) axis three, on strengthening governance and social
ISN               cohesion.
                  It is also a central element of the new ISN for FY10-12, and squarely aligned
                  with its second objective to strengthen state capacity and accountability.
                  Implementation of the reform program will also be supported via a technical
                  assistance project that will complement this operation.
Risks and Risk    This operation would face significant risks stemming from (i) systemic
Mitigation        weaknesses, related to the fragile political and macroeconomic environment
                  and limited government capacity; but also (ii) specific challenges associated
                  with weak national fiduciary systems as well as the political economy of
                  reform in public financial and civil service management.
                  These risks will be mitigated by (i) enhanced donor coordination, to ensure
                  focus on key feasible reforms but also timely delivery of aid, (ii) improved
                  supervision and parallel implementation support, and (iii) analytical work on
                  the political economy of reforms in Comoros.
                  Moreover, the risks of not providing support would be considerable (i) to the
                  Bank`s reputation given the reengagement of all major donors via budget
                  support (ii) to the reconciliation and state building process if Comoros did
                  not manage to remain on track with the IMF program and missed the
                  opportunity to benefit from HIPC and MDRI relief in the immediate future.
Operation ID      P117229

                                                 i
                      IDA PROGRAM DOCUMENT FOR A PROPOSED
                   ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE REFORM SUPPORT GRANT
                           TO THE UNION OF THE COMOROS


                                            I.    INTRODUCTION

1.       This program document proposes an Economic Governance Reform Support Grant
for the Union of the Comoros over the period FY10-FY11, for an amount of SDR2 million
(US$3 million equivalent). This single tranche development policy operation (DPO) would
help the Government of the Union to consolidate recently-achieved gains with respect to political
stability and democracy. It would also support the authorities` efforts to engage firmly on a
reform program to enhance macroeconomic stability and address core economic distortions so as
to provide the basis for economic development, better service delivery and poverty reduction.

2.       The proposed operation directly supports two of the PRSP's six strategic axes. It
addresses axis one, on economic stabilization and equitable growth, emphasizing improvements
in government and fiscal operations; as well as axis three, on strengthening governance and
social cohesion. It is also a central component of the new ISN for FY10-12, and squarely
aligned with its second objective of strengthening state capacity and accountability. Finally
implementation of the reform program will also be supported by a technical assistance project
that is at an advanced state of preparation and has been extensively discussed with the authorities
in conjunction with the proposed development policy operation.

3.     This operation forms a part of a broader reengagement effort on the part of the
international community in support of Comoros' reform agenda. External partners (bilateral
and multilateral) have agreed to provide budget support (estimated at some US$36 million and
US$33.1 million for 2009 and 2010 respectively). Several donors have indicated willingness to
enter into multi-year support arrangements beyond 2010, including the IMF whose Board
approved a Three-Year Arrangement under the Extended Credit Facility (ECF)1 on September
16, 2009.

                                      II.        COUNTRY CONTEXT

4.      The Union of the Comoros, an archipelago country with about 670,000 inhabitants2
spread unevenly among three islands, remains mired in poverty. With a GDP estimated at
US$525.5 million in 2009, the per capita figure stands at approximately US$785. About 45
percent of the population lives below the poverty line, but poverty incidence varies significantly
across regions and is generally higher in rural areas and on the island of Anjouan.

5.     The economy is characterized by limited resource endowments, a small domestic
market and a narrow export base, which make it particularly vulnerable to external
shocks. The primary sector and retail services dominate the economy, accounting respectively
for about one-half and one-fifth of GDP. The third largest sector is government services (about
10 percent of GDP), followed by transport and communication (9 percent), financial services and
1
    The Extended Credit Facility has replaced the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF).
2
    According to PRSP data, but population estimates for the Comoros vary widely from about 600,000 to 800,000.

                                                         1
construction and public works (about 5 percent each). The primary sector is geared towards the
production of three high-value export crops - vanilla, cloves and ylang-ylang3 - which provide
the bulk of export earnings. Production of food crops - mostly bananas, copra, and tubers - as
well as fishing for local consumption remain underdeveloped.

6.      Economic development in the past two decades has been hindered by a combination
of recurrent political crises, macroeconomic imbalances and external shocks. These have
resulted in a progressive decline in real income per capita and taken a serious toll on the public
administration's capacity to perform its basic functions. They have also undermined Comoros`
capacity to service its high (relative to income) external debt obligations. Against this
background, remittances from the Comorian diaspora have sustained domestic consumption and
provided a buffer against shocks to household income.

RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN COMOROS

7.     While Comoros' economy has proved resilient to the political crisis of 2008 and to
the global economic downturn, economic growth remains too low to have an impact on
poverty. Economic activity in 2008 was hampered by a political crisis in Anjouan and a major
petroleum products supply crisis4. Depletion of fuel reserves and ensuing energy shortages
brought economic activity to a standstill over the summer. These difficulties were compounded
by curtailment of credit to the private sector from the major commercial bank, due to a protracted
legal dispute. Simultaneously, higher international oil and food prices penalized this highly
import-dependent economy. Nonetheless, real GDP growth was maintained at 1 percent in 2008:
a rebound in retail and construction activities in the last quarter of the year partly offset the
marked decline in the first half of the year. Growth for 2009 is estimated to have resumed and
reached 1.8 percent (Table 1), which remains well below population growth.




3
  Ylang-ylang (pronounced EE-lang-EE-lang), is a common name for the cananga tree. Its highly fragrant flowers,
or the essential oil derived from them, are used in perfume manufacture and for aromatherapy.
4
  Following the cancellation of a long-standing supply contract with TOTAL.

                                                       2
                                 Table 1: Main economic indicators: 2005-2012
                                       (percent GDP unless otherwise specified)

                                         2005         2006         2007   2008    2009a   2010b   2011b   2012b
National income and prices
Real GDP growth
                                          4.2          1.2         0.5     1.0     1.8     2.0     2.5     3.5
(% change)
Inflation
                                           3           3.4         4.5     4.8     4.8     2.2     2.3     2.7
(% change, annual average)
Public finance
Domestic revenue
                                          15.7        13.6         12.7   13.1    13.9    14.0    14.2    14.6
(excl. grants)
Total expenditures
                                          19.9        21.2         22.3   26.0    23.0    22.7    23.0    22.8
(incl. net lending)
Domestic primary balance                  1.1         -1.2         -2.2   -2.7    -2.6    -1.2    -1.1    -0.6
Overall balance
                                          -0.5        -1.7         -2.2   -2.3     0.8    -4.5    -2.0    -1.6
(incl. grants)
Financing gap                             0.0          0.0         0.0     0.0     0.0     3.3     2.5     2.5
External sector
Imports of goods and services             34.7        38.3         41.6   48.3    48.1    49.4    47.4    46.3
Exports of goods and services             12.5        14.0         14.8   14.4    14.7    15.0    14.9    14.8
Current account balance                   -3.4        -6.1         -6.7   -10.6   -7.9    -12.3   -12.6   -11.9
Gross reserves
                                          8.1          7.3         7.3     5.2     7.1     6.3     6.3     6.1
(months of imports)
External debt
External debt stock
                                          71.5        67.2         57.6   54.2    48.4    44.5    41.3    n.a.
(end of year)
External debt service
                                          17.6        13.1         11.4   11.9    12.9    19.8     9.9     9.3
(% of exports)
       a          b
Notes: Estimate; Projection
Source: Comorian authorities and International Monetary Fund



8.      The trade balance deteriorated in 2008, on account of higher energy and food
import prices, but improved in 2009. The crisis in Anjouan -the main producing region for
vanilla and ylang-ylang- also depressed exports. However, remittances from the diaspora
continued to play their counter-cyclical role and increased markedly in 2008, limiting the slide in
the current account deficit. In 2009, the current account deficit is estimated to have narrowed
again to 8 percent of GDP.

9.     The fiscal outturn remained broadly stable in 2009 and is expected to improve in
2010. Revenues increased slightly in 2008 and again in 2009. While current expenditures also
increased in 2008 and 2009 (up by 1.2 percentage points of GDP), they are expected to decline
gradually over the coming three years and to stabilize at around 15 percent of GDP. Wage
expenditures remained high, at some 9 percent of GDP, and efforts to control them are
occasionally relaxed ­ such as when teachers were granted a significant salary increase in early
2010. The domestic primary deficit is estimated to have widened to 2.7 percent of GDP in 2008
(from 2.2 the previous year) and to have stayed at 2.6 percent in 2009. The total financing gap
for 2009, before budget support, was estimated at some $34.2 million amounting to 6.5 percent

                                                               3
of GDP. It was financed by a combination of budget support assistance (mainly from France the
EU, Kuwait, Abu Dhabi, the IMF and the AfDB), some accumulation of domestic wage arrears
(until July) and a deferment of debt service arrears at end-2008 and obligations falling due in
2009 (estimated at some 3 percent of GDP).

10.    Monetary policy has remained supportive of private sector growth in past years.
Credit growth to the private sector is estimated to have reached 10 percent in 2009, and the
opening of two new banking institutions -ending the de facto monopoly of the former single
commercial bank- is expected to further support private sector activity. That said, SME access to
finance remains a constraint to private sector growth.

11.     The normalization of Union-island relations in the aftermath of the resolution of
Anjouanese secessionist crisis in May 2008 allowed the authorities to initiate efforts
towards fiscal consolidation. Measures taken included a freezing ­albeit not fully respected- of
new hiring in the civil service from August 2008, a reduction in the number of ministerial
portfolios and the adoption by Parliament in November 2008 of a supplementary budget
reincorporating Anjouan. Moreover, a series of amendments to the constitutions were adopted
by referendum on May 17 2009, which opened the door for significant rationalization and right-
sizing of the administrative and political structures. These measures paved the way for the
conclusion of an IMF-supported program, utilizing the IMF`s Emergency Post-Conflict
Assistance (EPCA) facility, in late December 2008 and of a three year arrangement under the
ECF on September 16 2009. These positive developments must nonetheless be understood in a
context of enduring fragility and continued potential for political instability (especially after the
recent presidential initiative to extend the term of the executive`s mandate beyond the
constitutional period).

MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY

12.     Both the external and the policy environment are expected to improve in coming
years, even if effects on economic performance will take time to materialize. Economic
growth for 2010 is expected to remain subdued albeit stronger at about 2 percent of GDP, as
delayed investments eventually materialize. Improvements in the overall environment observed
in 2009 are expected to be consolidated leading to (i) a further decrease of pressure on domestic
prices ­ with inflation declining from 4.8 in 2009 to 2.2 in 2010, and (ii) a very modest reversal
of terms of trade gains after very strong gains in 2009. As a result the current account balance
would deteriorate to 12.3 percent of GDP.

13.    The adoption of a constitutional amendment through popular referendum on May
17, 2009 should allow the authorities to further fiscal consolidation efforts. The amendment
should result in enhanced central government authority over budget and economic management
and provide an opportunity to correct some of the shortcomings of the disorderly decentralization
process initiated in 2001. In particular, it should allow government super-structures to be
streamlined by eliminating the duplication of entities at the central and island levels. This
process will be gradual, though, and its impact on the wage bill is expected to be felt only from
2011 onwards. For 2010, the primary balance is projected to decline further to -1.2 percent of
GDP thanks in part to higher tax revenues and to a curtailment of goods and services
expenditures. The financing gap for 2010 before budget support is projected at some $37.3

                                                 4
million or 6.7 percent of GDP. The authorities intend to secure financing of this gap mainly
through budget support from bilateral and multilateral donors, including the European
Commission, France, the African Development Bank, the IMF, IDA, and Gulf countries, as well
as through interim HIPC assistance.

14.     Comoros has carried an unsustainable external debt burden for over two decades,
and is in need of debt relief. At end-2009, Comoros` public and publicly guaranteed external
debt was estimated at US$285.9 million in nominal terms5. This corresponds to US213.6 in NPV
terms, equivalent to about 45 percent of GDP; 330.6 percent of exports; and 320.7 percent of
fiscal revenues. As shown in the table below, roughly three-quarters of this is owed to
multilateral creditors, of which International Development Association (IDA) is the largest -with
42.1 percent of total debt- followed by the African Development Bank (AfDB, 13.3 percent of
the total), and BADEA (9.6 percent). The Paris Club creditors, with France the major creditor,
accounted for almost 26 percent of nominal bilateral and commercial claims at end-2009
(6 percent of Comoros` total external). Non-Paris Club creditors include Kuwait, Saudi Arabia,
Mauritius, and United Arab Emirates, accounting for an estimated 15.1 percent of total external
debt. Three commercial creditors (Banque Postale, Cotecna, and Hopitaux de Paris) held 2.3
percent of Comoros' total external debt outstanding at end-2009.

         Table 2: Nominal Stocks and Net Present Value of Debt at end-2009 by Creditor Groups
                                          Nominal Debt Stock 1/                    Arrears Stock                    NPV of Debt before                   NPV of Debt after
                                                                                                                  traditional debt relief 1/         traditional debt relief 1/ 2/
                                         US$ million       Percent          US$ million       Percent            US$ million     Percent             US$ million        Percent
                                                           of total                           of total                            of total                              of total


Total                                          285.9            100.0               53.8           100.0                213.6            100.0             248.8             100.0
                                                                  -                  -               -                    -                -                 -                 -
    Multilateral                               218.8             76.5               35.8            66.6                162.6             76.1             196.6              79.0
     World Bank                                120.4             42.1                -               -                   80.1             37.5              80.1              32.2
     AfDB Group                                 38.1             13.3                3.4             6.4                 27.8             13.0              61.5              24.7
     IMF                                        10.1              3.5                -               -                    7.6              3.6               7.6               3.0
     BADEA                                      27.6              9.6               27.6            51.3                 27.6             12.9              27.6              11.1
     Others 3/                                  22.7              7.9                4.8             9.0                 19.5              9.1              19.8               8.0

     Bilateral                                   60.5            21.2               13.5            25.1                 44.6             20.9               50.1             20.1
      Paris Club:                                17.3             6.0               11.6            21.6                 17.0              8.0                7.6              3.0
      Other Official Bilateral:                  43.2            15.1                1.9             3.5                 27.5             12.9               42.5    4/       17.1
     Commercial                                   6.6             2.3                4.5             8.3                  6.5              3.0                2.2              0.9


Sources: Comorian authorities; and Fund and World Bank staff estimates.

1/ Includes arrears.
2/ Base situation for the calculation of HIPC debt relief; assumes a stock-of-debt operation on Naples terms at end-December 2007; and comparable action by other official bilateral creditors
  on eligible debt (pre-cutoff and non-ODA).
3/ Other multilaterals include IsDB, IFAD, OPEC, EIB and AMF. The Comoros has no arrears with the IsDB.
4/ The relief resulting from the 2007 rescheduling agreements were added back to the NPV of debt stock as of end-2009.



15.     As of end-2009, about one fifth of Comoros' external debt was in arrears, but these
have been deferred pending agreement on restructuring discussions with concerned
creditors. The stock of external arrears stood at US$53.8 million, of which US$35.8 million was
owed to multilateral creditors, US$13.5 million to bilateral claimants, and US$ 4.5 million to
commercial creditors. Arrears to BADEA made up the largest share of arrears to multilateral
creditors at end-2009 (there were no arrears to the IMF or IDA). The bulk of arrears to the AfDF

5
 Based on the preliminary Debt Relief Analysis conducted by IMF and IDA staff with government authorities in
January 2010, in which all multilateral and 99.3 percent of bilateral and commercial debt were reconciled.

                                                                                      5
were cleared between December 2007 and April 2009 under the Fragile States Facility; a residual
amount of US$3.4 million is to be cleared by the EC when Comoros reaches the HIPC decision
point. Comoros has contacted the remaining creditors to start negotiations to clear arrears in the
context of a comprehensive resolution of the country`s debt situation under the HIPC Initiative
process. Arrears to Paris Club members stood at US$ 12 million at end-October 2009, and were
cleared through cancellation and rescheduling in November 2009. Other bilateral and
commercial creditors have either agreed to defer arrears pending review in the context of the
HIPC Initiative process or are holding discussions with the authorities on their restructuring.

16.     Comoros has met the Enhanced HIPC Initiative income and indebtedness criteria
based on end-2004 data, and is therefore eligible for HIPC and MDRI debt relief. With the
conclusion of the PRGF arrangement, the HIPC decision point should be reached in mid-2010
and the HIPC completion point as well as MDRI debt relief could be achieved by 2012-13.
Traditional debt relief together with unconditional delivery of HIPC Initiative assistance would
drive down Comoros`s NPV debt-to-exports ratio from 332.3 percent as of end-December 2009
to approximately 147.5 percent by 2012. With MDRI relief added, the NPV would fall further to
82.5 percent of exports in 2012. This does not include possible beyond HIPC debt relief that
may be provided by Paris Club creditors. With both HIPC and MDRI relief, the NPV of debt
would continue to decline to 77.1 percent of exports by 2029, reflecting projected growth in
exports and the authorities` prudent borrowing policy. Debt service would average about 3.7
percent of revenues or 3.8 percent of exports during 2009-2019.

    III.    THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM AND PARTICIPATORY PROCESSES

17.     The authorities completed the final version of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP), which was officially adopted by the Government on August 27 20096. The
Government`s program continues the efforts begun under the I-PRSP to stabilize the economy,
promote private sector growth and improve delivery of social services. The six axes of the PRSP
are as follows:
                 Core Strategy 1: Stabilize the economy and lay the groundwork for strong
                 equitable growth, emphasizing improvement
                 Core Strategy II: Strengthen key sectors by focusing on institution-building and
                 ensuring a broader role for the private sector
                 Core Strategy III: Strengthen governance and social cohesion
                 Core Strategy IV: Improve the health status of the general public
                 Core Strategy V: Promote education and vocational training with the aim of
                 developing human capital
                 Core Strategy VI: Promote environmental sustainability and civilian security.

18.   The PRSP was prepared through a wide participatory and inclusive process that
characterized the preparation of the Interim PRSP and was maintained and strengthened

6
 The full PRSP, the Strategie de Croissance et de Reduction de la Pauvrete (SCRP) was approved by Cabinet on
August 27, 2009 and presented to Development Partners on September 10, 2009.

                                                      6
for the final PRSP. After evaluating the institutional framework set up at the time of the I-
PRSP, the building blocks of that institutional framework were reviewed and reworked. The
sectoral working groups, which bring together national and international development
stakeholders on a sector-by-sector basis, were formalized and their members trained. These
working groups formed the backbone of preparation for the PRSP, and in particular, the PRSP
action plan. In addition, the former island steering committees were restructured, their members
trained and their terms of reference extended. These committees are now referred to as the
Committees for Development Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation. These committees helped to
ensure that the islands` and regions` concerns were more effectively addressed in the final PRSP.
The Government also set up a national aid coordination mechanism that uses the PRSP as a
benchmark document for its activities. The institutional framework for monitoring and
evaluating the final PRSP is backed by this aid coordination mechanism.7

19.      The resolution of the separatist crisis with Anjouan and the adoption of the
constitutional amendments have given a new impetus to the Government's economic
development and poverty reduction program. The government has committed to a reform
agenda that would help consolidate the reconciliation process and pave the way for sustained
economic development and poverty reduction. Performance under the IMF EPCA program --
which focused on strengthening Union-island cooperation, initiating fiscal consolidation and
initiating work to address structural impediments to medium term expenditure viability-- was
considered broadly satisfactory. Overall, the macroeconomic framework is considered sound
and has been endorsed by external partners. The IMF recently held discussions in Comoros for
the first review of performance under the ECF and preliminary indications are that the medium
term macroeconomic prospects are favorable.

20.     The specific proposed program of reforms also enjoys broad national consensus. The
main vehicle for the reform of civil service management is the High Authority for Civil Service
(HACS), whose Board is composed of equal number of representatives from the Union and
island authorities and therefore enjoys the trust of all of Comoros` entities. As for the Public
Financial Management (PFM) component of the program, it is fully congruent with the
Government`s own PFM strategy and action plan which were developed with broad participation
and consultation of island authorities and technical services.

                    IV.      SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM

21.     The operation is congruent with the Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for the Union of
the Comoros submitted for Board consideration jointly with the proposed operation. The
objectives of the ISN are: (i) to reduce social vulnerability, and (ii) to strengthen state capacity
and accountability. This operation would contribute directly to the second objective and is
explicitly foreseen in the ISN. The new proposed strategy takes stock of recent political
progress, including with respect to the reconciliation process and supports the choice of a
development policy operation. It seeks to build on recent momentum through providing limited
budget support in response to progress against an agenda of critical economic reforms and as part
of a multi-donor burden-sharing effort. A key overarching objective over the short- to medium-


7
    IMF, Union of Comoros ­ Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper ­ Preparation Status Report, September 2, 2009.

                                                        7
term will be to help the Government of Comoros to reach the decision point for HIPC debt relief
in mid-2010 and the completion point in 2012-13.

COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS

22.    This operation was prepared in close collaboration and coordination with the IMF
and other donors providing budget support, notably the African Development Bank (AfDB),
the European Commission (EC), and the Government of France--which together account for
most of donor support to Comoros. When possible, the identification/pre-appraisal missions
took place simultaneously with IMF, AfDB and EC missions. Appraisal was carried out while
IMF and AfDB missions were in Moroni and the draft program document was extensively
discussed with these partners. Donors have agreed to exchange information and coordinate
missions to ensure congruency of policies and maximize aid effectiveness. The IMF has
approved Comoros` request for a Three-Year Arrangement under the ECF. The AfDB is
providing support through a capacity building and technical assistance project (for an estimated
amount of US$8.5 million) and direct budget support (for an amount of US$3.2 million)
approved mid July 2009. The European Commission also provided budget support in 2009
(estimated at US$6.4 million). Development partners are also coordinating the delivery of
technical assistance. The proposed IDA-supported TA operation ­which is in an advanced state
of preparation- was designed in consultation with the other donors active in Comoros to ensure
complementarity, and reflects the Bank`s comparative advantage in areas of public financial
management and civil service reform. Table 3 provides an overview of ongoing and planned
donor support to Comoros.

            Table 3: Comoros: Areas of Donor Technical Support (Ongoing and Planned)
                                IDA/WBG      IMF         AfDB         France         EC
                                 (FY10-12)   (2009-12)   (2009-10)    (2009-12)      (2008-13)
PFM, Support to the Financial
Sector, Governance                    X             X         X             X             X
Civil Service Reform
                                      X
Customs Administration                                        X
Central Banking Supervision
                                                    X
Statistics                            X             X         X                           X
Revenue Administration and
                                                                            X
Tax Policy                                          X         X
Water, Transport
Infrastructure                        X                       X             X             X
Healthcare, Education                 X                                     X             X
Agriculture                           X                                     X             X
Private Sector/ SOE Reform            X
                                                                            X




                                                8
RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BANK OPERATIONS

23.     This operation is the backbone of a broader package of assistance. It is closely
related to an Economic Governance Technical Assistance (EGTA) project, which will be
submitted for Bank consideration in the near future. The Technical Assistance project would
provide direct additional support to the government for implementing the reform program by
helping it to strengthen personnel and financial management systems and to improve the
transparency and accountability of government operations. Preliminary activities on improving
these systems are being financed through a Project Preparation Facility. In addition the Bank and
Fund teams are supporting the Government to move toward HIPC and MDRI relief in the near
future. The aim is for Comoros to reach decision point by mid 2010 and completion point by
2012-13. Finally, the Bank is about to launch an trust-funded analytical work program, on the
political economy of reforms in Comoros, which will inform implementation of the proposed
DPO and the design of possible subsequent operations.

LESSONS LEARNED

24.    The proposed DPO integrates some of the key insights and recommendations of the
Paris Declaration (2005) and Accra Agenda for Action (2008). Both echoed the calls of client
countries for aid vehicles in fragile states that would lower transaction costs on -and increase
ownership by- recipient governments. Direct budget support, by contrast to traditional
investment lending-based support, is seen as one such mechanism.

25.     It builds on lessons emerging from DPOs in fragile environments.8 Following the
typology for fragile states, Comoros can be considered as a gradual improver, with weak
governance and policy frameworks, limited capacity for policy dialogue, and limited progress in
reform implementation. The experience with DPOs in fragile states has shown that
programmatic operations can be effective in gradual improvers as long as the reform agenda is
modest and politically realistic. In this context, this operation focuses on politically-feasible
reforms that can build momentum for future changes, with a particular emphasis on restoring and
strengthening basic state functions--notably with respect to civil service and public expenditure
management.

26.     Previous experience with DPOs in fragile states has also shown that the presence of
external partners signals that the international community has scrutinized the
government's reform agenda and is willing to provide support. External funding in support
of the reform agenda enables the government to carry out reforms without reducing resource
flows in other critical areas of the economy. As is the case with the Comoros DPO, the
assistance provided by external partners needs to be well-coordinated and efforts made to ensure
that the reforms propose do not exceed government`s limited capacities.

27.     Another lesson indicates that programmatic single-tranche DPOs in fragile states
have also performed better than multiple-tranche operations. The Comoros DPO follows
this best practice by providing for a single tranche release based on a set of completed prior

8
 Good Practice Note for Development Policy Lending: Development Policy Operations and Program
Conditionality in Fragile States, Operations Policy and Country Services, June 2005, and Engaging with Fragile
States: An IEG Review of World Bank Support to Low-Income Countries\Under Stress, IEG, World Bank, 2006.

                                                        9
actions. This avoids the potential for second-tranche release delays caused by difficulties in
fulfilling release conditions. At the same time it does so in a programmatic perspective, by laying
out an incremental reform program (with triggers for a potential second operation building on the
prior actions) thus giving some indication of potential future funding and incentives to carry
through on an increasingly ambitious integrated set of reforms.

28.     Finally, a key lesson emerging from DPO's in fragile states is the importance of
strengthening the budget process. Experience has shown that fragile states often have weak or
non-existent budget structures, leading to poor and fragmented allocation of resources.
Successful DPOs in fragile states have helped government`s consolidate their budget systems
and processes enabling them to be used as a framework for policy and operational decision-
making. Comoros had a plethora of uncoordinated Union and island budget processes prior to the
May 2009 constitutional referendum, which introduced streamlined governance structures. In
contrast, the 2010 consolidated budget demonstrates the use of a national system, which
legitimizes national institutions, reinforcing the authority and oversight role of the collective
executive and oversight bodies.

ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS

29.     The operation is informed by recent technical assistance and diagnostic studies in
the area of public financial management and civil service reform. On civil service these
include a 2001 World Bank financed study of the Civil Service composition and wage profile
which already pointed out numerous irregularities and inconsistencies in the management of
careers and wages and the unsustainable path of the wage bill growth. This work was followed
by a diagnostic of the civil service wage bill (2005) as well as (under the PPF of the proposed
TA operation) by analytical and material support to the development of an integrated civil
service management software. PFM diagnostic and reform has been at the core of the World
Bank`s policy dialogue in recent years. This dialogue was supported by trust funded (LICUS and
IDF) technical assistance on (i) options for reforming the budgetary and accounting
nomenclatures to allow inter alia for better tracking of priority programs as well as for
harmonizing nomenclatures across levels of government (2006); (ii) diagnostics of the public
expenditure control environment (2006) (iii) public procurement legislation and practices (2008).
Finally, in 2007, the European Union financed a PEFA assessment which revealed numerous
flaws in Comoros` management of its public finances. This assessment prompted the AfDB to
support the Government of Comoros in the preparation of its PFM Strategy and Action Plan for
the next decade.

                              V.      THE PROPOSED GRANT

OPERATION DESCRIPTION

30.     Development objectives. The proposed operation seeks to tackle some of the key
underlying causes of fragility and conflict in Comoros and to strengthen the legitimacy of the
state by addressing (i) widespread public dissatisfaction with the lack of transparency in the
management of public resources ­also a major source of distrust across levels of government-,
and (ii) weaknesses in public service delivery which can be largely imputed to poor management
of the civil service. In the short term it seeks to mitigate some of the more immediate threats to

                                                10
reconciliation and stabilization in Comoros namely (i) the accumulation of domestic wage
arrears creating unsustainable pressure on wages and on the budget ­which could ultimately
translate into new external debt arrears, as well as the related (ii) possibility that Comoros might
not remain on track with the IMF program and therefore loose eligibility for HIPC and MDRI
relief in the short term. In the short to medium term it seeks to support the authorities in their
efforts to carry out key reforms in PFM and Civil Service Management that will not only restore
the state`s legitimacy and credibility but also lay the foundations for future growth and poverty
reduction.

31.      The operation directly supports two of the six strategic axes of the PRSP, namely
axis one, on economic stabilization and equitable growth emphasizing improvements in
government and fiscal operations, as well as axis three, on improving the governance
environment notably, on fiscal management. Strengthening the core functions and entities
directly involved in the mobilization and management of public resources and improving their
resilience to political interference will be critical for long-term good governance and institutional
development to take root and thrive. The proposed operation focuses on two main policy areas:
(i) strengthening public financial management and (ii) strengthening public sector efficiency and
accountability, focusing on core personnel management systems. It is complemented by a
technical assistance operation in an advanced state of preparation, which will provide additional
support for reform implementation in precisely these areas.

32.     Benefits. The proposed Development Policy Operation is planned as a programmatic
single tranche operation, to be potentially followed by additional support, which aims, inter alia,
to help the government and its external partners to articulate an appropriately sequenced and
prioritized medium-term reform program. This first, single tranche, IDA operation will support
the consolidation of national reconciliation through building state capacity and strengthening
accountability. In addition, the funds provided will help to ensure that the authorities remain
current with their external payment obligations and prevent the accumulation of new domestic
and external arrears. It will also be instrumental in helping the authorities to successfully
implement the ECF-supported IMF program, and therefore in paving the way towards debt relief
under the enhanced HIPC Initiative and MDRI. A possible second DPO would follow the
successful implementation of the first operation as well as progress in implementing the
proposed TA credit. It would provide continued support to the government`s medium term
economic program, a key objective of which is to reach the HIPC completion point.

33.      Prior actions. The World Bank, in coordination with other development partners, is
supporting the government`s efforts to implement its economic governance reform program.
Box 1 provides a summary of the prior actions already undertaken for this grant operation as well
as of triggers that could be used to assess a follow-on operation.




                                                 11
   Box 1: Prior Actions for this Grant Operation and Possible Triggers for a Follow-On Operation
                                   A. Strengthening public financial management
 Prior action 1. The Recipient has prepared a consolidated budget for FY 2010, using a participatory process
 involving all concerned stakeholders.
 ---Possible trigger for follow-on operation: A draft organic law on the budget framework is prepared and discussed
 in a national workshop prior to submission for approval.
 Prior action 2. The Budgetary Committee has met regularly on a quarterly basis during FY2009, and produced
 budget execution reports for each of the four quarters of FY2009.
 --- Possible trigger for follow-on operation: Quarterly reports are published on public website or newspaper with
 national coverage and include basic information on spending in social sectors.

 Prior action 3. The Recipient has taken initial steps for the implementation of the PFM strategy and action plan,
 through the establishment of a focal point to be responsible for the implementation of the plan and monitor progress.
 --- Possible trigger for follow-on operation: The government implements the first tri-annual PFM action plan 2010-
 12 demonstrating improved capacity for budget organization and strengthened internal and external controls .
                           B. Strengthening public sector efficiency and accountability
 Prior action 4. The Recipient has developed and automated payroll system for the management of the wage bill in
 of civil service.
 --- Possible trigger for follow-on operation : The system is operationalized to manage civil service human
 resources and payroll.
 Prior action 5. The Recipient has taken steps to reaffirm the pre-eminent role of HACS in the recruitment of level
 A` civil servants, through the issuance of an administrative circular reminding concerned ministries and agencies
 that no such recruitment can be undertaken otherwise than on the basis of the outcome of a competitive selection
 process, responsibility for which vests exclusively in HACS.
 --- Possible trigger for follow-on operation : The lists of admitted candidates (ranked by order of merit) to
 competitive examinations for entry into the civil service for category A are systematically published in a
 newspaper with national coverage.


POLICY AREAS

34.     The proposed Economic Governance Reform Support Grant supports two broad
policy areas: public financial management and public sector efficiency and accountability.
This section describes the policies being supported by the DPO, the associated challenges facing
the government in each policy area, the actions the government has already taken in each area,
the triggers that would need to be met for a follow-on DPO to be considered. This information is
also provided in a policy matrix in Annex 2.

Public Financial Management

35.     Agreement on a revised and implementable fiscal arrangement is critical for
consolidating Union-island cooperation and ensuring medium-term economic and political
stability. Fiscal decentralization became the cornerstone of the national reconciliation process
initiated in 2001. A revenue-sharing mechanism was adopted in 2003 and put in place in 2005.
All shared revenues were remitted to a special account at the Central Bank out of which, after
putting aside fixed provisions for external debt and civil service pension payments, receipts were
redistributed according to agreed upon ratios to the four different government entities in

                                                         12
Comoros--the governments of the Union and each of the three islands. This mechanism has
been critical to rebuilding trust and Union-island cooperation, and it worked fairly smoothly in
2005, although implementation has been more erratic since 2006 despite nominal adherence by
all parties to the principle. While clear revenue sharing principles are imperative to cement the
national reconciliation process, their definition ultimately hinges on the existence of a framework
for intergovernmental division of labor and responsibilities. The new constitutional amendments
approved through popular referendum on May 17, 2009, imply a very significant re-definition of
these respective roles and constitute an opportunity to revisit Union-island fiscal relations and
establish a basis for strengthened public financial management. But it will take time before their
implications can be worked out practically and consensus can be found among all stakeholders.
Already there has been improved coordination between the Union and Island entities in budget
preparation. While the budget preparation process had previously consisted in the mere
aggregation of four separate exercises, the 2010 budget was truly consolidated` in that it implied
a participatory preparation process in support of collective policy goals (prior action 1). A
trigger for additional support would be continued improvement in the legal framework governing
the budget. An indicator of progress would include the preparation of a draft organic law
governing the budget framework, following the completion of a study spelling out how the
budget process should be adapted to the unique Comorian environment.

36.     Notwithstanding the progress made since 2005 with respect to budget preparation
and implementation, the budget is established mainly on the basis of economic and
financial constraints, and is largely disconnected from the government's policy priorities.
Even so, significant efforts have been made since late 2004 to improve budget supervision. A
Budgetary Committee was set up to coordinate the preparation of budgets and keep track on
revenue and spending patterns throughout the year. The Budgetary Committee provides a
mechanism for discussing the revenues and expenditure estimates of each entity and for working
out a consolidated budget to be submitted to the Union and island executives and ultimately to
the Union Assembly. It also compiles key data on budget execution for policy makers and DPs.
After an interruption due to the resurgence of political tensions in 2007 and 2008, the Budgetary
Committee has resumed its regular meetings to compile and validate the consolidated fiscal data
from the four entities and prepare quarterly budget execution reports (prior action 2). With
support from the World Bank, the authorities have revised and harmonized accounting and
budgetary practices across all entities to facilitate reporting and monitoring of budget execution,
and some training has been provided to core staff. Triggers for consideration of continued
support would be that the budget execution reports of the Budgetary Committee were refined to
include social sector spending and published on a public website so as to reinforce accountability
and allow the public to better understand the tight budget constraints faced by the Government.

37.     Public financial management remains extremely weak in the Comoros. The various
services are not well organized (procurement, disbursement, accounting) and employ outdated
and inefficient procedures. Updated financial tools need to be prepared and computerized and
key staffs re-trained. Specifically, cash management needs to be strengthened and payment
controls instituted to avoid an accumulation of arrears, a persistent problem in Comoros. The
authorities have completed consultations on a public financial management strategy and ­ draft-
action plan and it has been reviewed by the government. The comprehensive Action Plan
contains a menu of reforms for the next decade, with which Bank staff fully agree and which
provides a very useful platform for DP support and coordination. The commitment of the

                                                13
Government to implement the actions is demonstrated by the plan to establish, by means with
regulatory force, a focal point to oversee the reform program (prior action 3). The strategy and
action plan include a description of how the various financial entities (Union and islands) will be
organized in an effort to rationalize services and reduce duplication.                 It provides
recommendations on computerizing key systems and introducing new budget tools and provides
an assessment of equipment and training needs. The strategy and action plan address important
structural weaknesses in the expenditure chain, public procurement and fiduciary controls. A
trigger for continued support would be actual implementation of the first triennial plan for the
period 2010-12, demonstrating capacity in the areas of budget organization and internal and
external controls.

Public Sector Efficiency and Accountability

38.     Years of continued political strife have taken a serious toll on the public
administration's capacity to perform its basic functions. The disorderly process of
decentralization and the creation of additional administrative structures--as agreed in 2001 in an
effort to resolve political tensions among the Union and the islands--have resulted in a
duplication of governing bodies (the Union and each island has a President, cabinet and
parliament9) and political utilization of recruitments in the civil service. Consequently, the size
of the civil service has increased significantly and wage arrears have accumulated; respective
roles and responsibilities of the different Union and island administrations have become blurred
and staff motivation has plummeted. The civil service roster increased from less than 6,000 in
1999 to some 12,000 in 2008, with a concomitant rise of wage and salary expenditures from 6.2
percent to 9 percent of GDP.

39.     The authorities need to pursue their efforts to improve the effectiveness of public
administration, while reducing staffing and the wage bill to levels compatible with medium-
term budget sustainability. Starting in 2005, the authorities have taken preliminary steps to
permit better control of the wage bill and prepare a rationalization of the civil service in line with
the decentralized setting established in the 2001 Constitution. The implementation of these
reforms stalled in the aftermath of the collapse of Union-island cooperation in 2007, but was
resumed in the second half of 2008. Key measures included: (i) adopting a new law of civil
service, which provides for the creation of a High Authority of Civil Service (HACS) responsible
for organizing the competitive selection process prior to all recruitments into the civil service and
for managing the personnel roster of all entities and (ii) designing and populating a computerized
system to manage the civil service structure and wage bill. Recently the High Authority has
updated and computerized the civil service roster and overseen the development of software for
managing the civil service structure and payroll (prior action 4) which will among other things
automatically detect abuses in benefits claimed and streamline payments. A trigger for continued
support will be evidence that the institutional software is being used to manage the civil service
payroll.

40.    The HACS is now operational and has begun to control new entries into the civil
service. Centralized personnel management units have been established in the finance

9
 Since the constitutional amendments of 2009, island presidents, ministers and deputies have been replaced by
governors, advisors and councilmen

                                                        14
administrations. Draft organizational structures have been finalized for most ministries at the
Union level and the authorities have established a Commission to assess the implications of the
constitutional changes for the civil service and to start preparing a plan to reform public
administration. The HACS now has the de jure responsibility for overseeing the competitive
process leading to new recruitments into the civil service of all level A civil servants, but it is
key that this authority be fully exercised so as to lay the foundation of a new meritocratic civil
service (prior action 5). Next steps will consist in (i) completing a physical census of public
employees to eliminate ghost` workers and validate the computerized database, and (ii)
officially adopting the organic frameworks of the various Comorian administrations, at Union
and Island levels, after completion of a functional review. A trigger for continuation of support
will be the systematic publication in a newspaper with national coverage of the lists of admitted
candidates (ranked by order of merit) to competitive examination for entry into the civil service
so as to ensure that any deviations from the suggested ranking are subject to public scrutiny.

                           Box 2: Good Practice Principles for Conditionality
   Principle 1 - Reinforce ownership
   The final PRSP, prepared through a broad participatory process, was officially adopted in September 2009. The
   proposed operation supports a reform program, which was designed by the authorities, in line with the PRSP and
   reflecting their needs and implementation capacity.
   Moreover the proposed operation is fully congruent with the Government`s recently completed PFM Strategy
   and Action Plan.
   Principle 2 - Agree in advance with the government and other financial partners on a coordinated
   accountability framework
   The accountability framework (i.e., policy matrix) for measuring progress has been discussed with all
   departments involved in the program, including at the Union and autonomous island levels.
   The operation has been prepared in coordination with other development partners providing budget support and
   technical assistance, notably the IMF, the AfDB, the European Commission, China and France.
   Principle 3 - Customize the accountability framework and modalities of Bank support to country
   circumstances
   The operation is congruent with the principles for engagement in fragile states, notably by focusing its support in
   tandem on state capacity and accountability building. The modality of the operation (budget support) responds to
   the urgent financial needs and will contribute towards closing the financing gap (estimated at some US$37.3
   million or 6.7 percent of GDP for 2010).
   Principle 4 - Choose only actions critical to achieve results as conditions for disbursement
   Prior actions and conditions focus on critical steps to strengthen core state functions and accountability - notably
   public finance and personnel management systems ­ and will also contribute to strengthening Union-island
   relations and diffusing political tensions.
   Principle 5 - Conduct transparent progress reviews conducive to predictable and performance-based
   financial support
   As noted, the operation was prepared in coordination with other development partners` support. Discussions
   have taken place to agree on sharing of information and coordination of missions to ensure congruency of
   interventions and maximize aid effectiveness.




                                                        15
                         VI.     OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION

POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACTS

41.     The measures supported by this operation are expected to have a positive poverty
and social impact. Improvement of public financial management and strengthening of public
sector efficiency and accountability have been identified as core objectives under the PRSP.
Improved budgetary and expenditure management will benefit the general public and particularly
the poor through (i) a reduction in leakages and (ii) a greater focus on poverty reducing
expenditures. Resources are expected to be freed up through tightened controls over public
procurement and expenditures as well as through improved management of the wage bill. In
addition a more harmonized budgetary preparation process would also liberate scarce resources
if only by reducing the duplication of administrative structures and programs across different
levels of government. Moreover the efficiency with which these resources are allocated toward
priority expenditures would be improved through more efficient tools to track such expenditures
in the budget (both ex ante and ex post). Taken together, improvements in public financial
management should enable the government to allocate additional scarce resources to priority
social sector expenditures.

42.     Actions to improve wage bill management and civil service deployment will generate
both positive and negative impacts within the civil service ranks. On the positive side, the
regular payment of civil service salaries will improve the atmosphere and working conditions
experienced by the average civil servant. This should lead to more productivity and commitment
to public service outcomes as predictability in payments is provided. The reduction in ghost
workers in the payroll system will be resisted by small numbers in the system currently
extracting rents from these anomalies. However, it is not anticipated that these elements in the
civil service are capable of resisting the changes that are being introduced. The computerization
program is advanced and, overall, the numbers of civil servants are small. Moreover, the
program at this stage is focused on consolidation of the payroll (not retrenchment) and improved
selection of entrants to the civil service. It must also be stressed that civil servants in Comoros
are among the better off within the population as shown by an analysis of household expenditure
levels by socio-economic categories from the latest household consumption survey and therefore
that the broader public is likely to respond positively to steps taken to make the civil service
system more effective.

ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS

43.     The proposed operation focuses on institutional reforms and will only indirectly
impact on the environment. However the benefits to the environment stemming from the
project could ultimately be significant, particularly as the project reinforces the Government`s
PRSP which has environmental sustainability as one of its six core themes. Through improved
public financial management, the government is expected to be able to make better use of
planning and funding instruments to design and implement activities that will help the Comoros
sustain its fragile island environment. Through more coordinated budget execution, the Union
and Island Governments will be able to guide critical environmental investments from start to
conclusion, a process that has proved difficult before now. In summary, the proposed project is


                                                16
putting in place the planning and management fundamentals that ultimately should yield positive
environmental outcomes.

IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION

44.      The Ministry of Finance of the Union, with support from the Directorate of
Planning, will be responsible for monitoring reforms, reporting progress and coordinating
actions among other ministries and entities, including at the island level. Comoros has a
relatively weak national monitoring system. With the support of its development partners -
notably AfDB and the European Commission- the authorities are strengthening and developing
their capacities to design, implement, monitor, and evaluate their development and poverty
reduction strategies. In particular, the EC approved a 1.9 million project to strengthen the
capacity of the General Directorate for Planning, responsible in particular for aid coordination
and poverty reduction strategy monitoring and evaluation. AfDB is focusing on strengthening
statistical capacity. Moreover, the Government is expected to appoint a committee, responsible
for steering and following up on the implementation of the PFM action plan. Monitoring of
progress against program objectives would be closely aligned to the committee`s own review
cycle.

45.    Monitoring of results take advantage of existing and planned Public Expenditure
and Financial Accountability (PEFA) studies. Given the dearth of objective baseline data in
Comoros, the PEFA study supported by the European Union in 2007 provides a useful baseline,
covering most of the policy areas supported under the proposed operation. A new PEFA study is
planned for 2012-13 which will measure progress that has been made in improving public
expenditure management and overall financial accountability.

FIDUCIARY ASPECTS

46.     Given the weak PFM environment, the authorities' commitment to a credible
program of PFM reform and evidence that improvements are occurring in a timely
manner will be critical to mitigate fiduciary risk. The PEFA exercise, conducted in October
2007, confirmed the weakness of Comoros` PFM systems, with 22 out of 28 performance
indicators rated D, five rated C and only one rated A (the indicator comparing aggregate
expenditure out-turn to original approved budget). The cash management plan established in
2005 has been abandoned because it required constant adjustments and was not followed.
Allocations of authority to spend are released quarterly, but they do not take into account
availability of funds and as a consequence credit managers commit resources with no knowledge
of availability of funds. In-year adjustments are relatively frequent. Adjustments within budget
sections must be approved through Ministerial Order; adjustments between sections require
Presidential Decree; and two or three Orders and Decrees are issued every year. A
supplementary budget law has been adopted by the Parliament every year since 2006. While the
overall aggregate expenditure out-turn is largely in line with the original approved budget
(deviations for the last three completed budget cycles ranged from 2.1 percent to 3.8 percent), the
budget is less credible in terms of composition of expenditures, as actual out-turns diverge
significantly from the original budget (ranging between 5.6 percent and 13.8 percent). The
proposed reforms supported by this grant will address many of the issues raised in the 2007
PEFA exercise.

                                                17
47.      The overall financial mechanisms of the Central Bank are believed to be relatively
sound, despite some weakness in the areas of external audit and financial reporting. The
IMF completed its last Safeguard Assessment (SA) of the Central Bank in August 2007, and the
authorities have reportedly incorporated most of the recommendations and taken adequate
measures. The IMF intends to undertake an update of the SA prior to Board consideration of the
first review under the ECF arrangement.

DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING

48.     The proposed grant will follow the Bank's disbursement procedures for
development policy operations. Funds will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of
the development policy program and not tied to any specific purchases. Once the grant is
approved by the Board and becomes effective, the proceeds of a single tranche of SDR2 million
(US$3 million equivalent) will be deposited by IDA in an account designated by the Borrower
and acceptable to the Bank at the Central Bank of Comoros at the request of the Borrower. The
Borrower shall ensure that upon the deposit of the grant into said account, an equivalent amount
is credited in the Borrower`s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
The Borrower will report to the Bank on the amounts deposited in the foreign currency account
and credited to the budget management system. If the proceeds of the grant are used for
ineligible purposes as defined in the Development Grant Agreement, IDA will require the
Borrower, promptly upon notice from IDA, to refund an amount equal to the amount of said
payment to IDA. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. The
administration of this grant will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance of the Union.

RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION

49.      This operation would face (i) significant systemic risks related to the fragile political
environment, weak government capacity and challenging macro-economic environment; as well
as (ii) project-specific risks linked to the political economy of reform in fragile states.

50.      Maintaining political stability and momentum for reform will be the cornerstone of
Comoros' economic and social development. While important progress has been achieved since
the 2001 reconciliation agreement, the resurgence of political tensions in 2007 was a clear
illustration that the political environment remains fragile. Should Union-island cooperation and
political momentum for reform falter, Comoros could quickly slide into another period of turmoil
and instability. Some degree of disagreement is certain to emerge when actual implementation
of the changes implied by the constitutional amendment will begin-notably with respect to the
redefinition of Union-island fiscal arrangements or public administration reform. To mitigate
this risk, the international community will need to remain engaged, monitor the situation closely,
and support and advocate for an inclusive and constructive dialogue between with the Union and
island executives. It will also be crucial that the international community honor its commitments
and deliver the needed financial and technical assistance so as to provide a firm anchor to the
government`s reform efforts.

51.    Macroeconomic risk. Comoros faces a challenging macroeconomic environment. The
success of the operation will be largely determined by the authorities` ability to adhere to the
medium-term macroeconomic framework agreed upon with the IMF. Fiscal slippages,

                                                18
accumulation of new domestic and external arrears, or a further deterioration of the external
environment-through terms of trade shocks or fading remittances flows-could jeopardize the
success of the operation. Key mitigating measure will include close economic and policy
monitoring, notably from the IMF and the Bank, and significant and timely financial and
technical assistance support from the donor community more generally, to help ensure that
government commitment to a sound fiscal policy does not waver. Moreover, support provided by
the IMF and the French to the fiscal and customs administration will be critical to ensure that
revenue generation capacity can be strengthened so that domestic sources of revenues can be
gradually substituted for foreign ones.

52.     Insufficient implementation capacity. Current implementation capacity is extremely
weak. The expected rise in donor support will further increase the pressure on the administration
and could result in bottlenecks. Donors are aware of this situation and are tackling it by: (i)
coordinating and, when possible, consolidating their interventions to minimize the burden on the
administration; and (ii) accompanying budget support operations with significant parallel
technical assistance and capacity-building interventions. By moving some of its staff to the
Nairobi office (including the country economist) the Bank is giving itself the means to increase
the frequency and depth of its supervision.

53.     Fiduciary risk. Given the weakness of financial management systems, this operation
faces significant fiduciary risks. At the same time, by working through the budget, the proposed
operation will provide an opportunity to work through government systems to tackle these
weaknesses. It would support the adoption of a credible program of PFM reform to start
addressing these weaknesses (including on public procurement as well as internal and external
controls of expenditures and financial reporting). In parallel the Bank would also provide TA
under a proposed TA operation in an advanced state of preparation, which is focusing precisely
on implementation of the reform program in areas of Bank comparative advantage. The recent
completion by the Government of a Strategy and Action Plan for PFM reform over the next
decade, provides a strong indication of the Government`s commitment and ownership of the
reform program as well as a platform for donors to harmonize and coordinate their interventions.

54.     Political economy risk. Substantial reform, particularly in strategic areas such as PFM
and civil service and in weak governance environments such as Comoros`, come with non-
negligible political economy risks. Reforms will hurt vested interests and some resistance can be
expected. However, this risk is mitigated in several ways. The strong coordination between
donors and collective focus on a few key reform areas provides a clear roadmap for reform and
framework for M&E. The proposed operation focuses squarely on reforms thought to be
achievable in the specific context of Comoros as part of a gradual, incremental process of
reform. Finally the World Bank is launching a parallel AAA program on the political economy
of reform that should provide key insights during implementation. In addition the risk that
providing budget support to the Union might be interpreted as a political statement of support to
the Union vis-à-vis island authorities is mitigated by the fact that both areas of focus ­PFM and
Civil Service reform- are highly consensual and that the overarching objective of reaching debt
relief enjoys broad popular support.

55.    Risks of not engaging. While engagement carries substantial risks, lack of engagement
would imply equal if not greater risks. This is indeed a critical period for Comoros with (i) the

                                               19
re-engagement of all major donors, (ii) the conclusion of a program with the IMF, which in turn
opens the road for HIPC and MDRI debt relief and finally, (iii) a bold effort by the Union
authorities ­mostly supported by the population- to rationalize and streamline the country`s
institutional architecture. Allowing this window to close without providing strong support would
increase the likelihood that Comoros might accumulate further arrears on its domestic and or
external obligations, with the potential of significantly undermining the state building process
and re-igniting the separatist tendencies in Anjouan. Budget support by the World Bank could be
critical to maintain macroeconomic stability, ensure that the state is able to carry out its basic
functions ­in particular to regularly pay civil service wages- and to remain on course with the
Fund program. Moreover, implementation of key PFM reforms by the Ministry of Finance will
be seriously compromised if MoF staff are constantly absorbed by firefighting` or handling cash
management emergencies. By contrast, budget support would ease these cash management
constraints and give MoF staff the space and stability needed to carry out tough reforms.




                                               20
ANNEXES

          ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY




                           21
22
23
24
                                                   ANNEX 2: POLICY MATRIX
                          Union of the Comoros - Economic Governance Reform Support - Results framework
                  Government Reform Program: Prior Actions, Triggers for Continued Support, Indicators and Outcomes

                                         Broad policy objective 1: Strengthening public financial management
Objectives                            DPL POLICY ACTIONS                                             EXPECTED OUTCOMES                               Responsible
                           Prior Action          Trigger for                Indicator                  Baseline      Target                          Authority
                                                 continued support
The quality of the         The Recipient has     The budgetary legal        Timeliness of budget       Weak coordination                             VP in charge of
budgetary process is       prepared a            framework is revised       preparation and            among entities in                             Finance
improved:                  consolidated budget   to reflect Comoros`        transparency of inter-     the budget
the budget is a tool for   for FY 2010, using a  unique institutional       governmental               preparation process
setting policy             participatory process setup. A draft organic     relations.                 with ex post
priorities.                involving all         law on the budget                                     reconciliation.
                           concerned             framework is
                           stakeholders (as      prepared and                                          2007 PEFA              PEFA indicator PI-8
                           demonstrated by the   discussed in a national                               indicator PI-8 on      improved to C+.
                           submission of a       workshop prior to                                     transparency of
                           consolidated budget   submission for                                        inter-governmental
                           for 2010 to the Union approval.                                             relations rated: C
                           Assembly for
                           approval).                                                                  2007 PEFA              PEFA indicator PI-11
                                                                                                       indicator PI-11 on     improved to C.
                                                                                                       the organization
                                                                                                       and participatory
                                                                                                       nature of the budget
                                                                                                       preparation process
                                                                                                       rated: D+

Improved budget            The Budgetary            Quarterly reports are   Timely production          Budgetary                                     CREF
implementation and         Committee has met        published on public     and public availability    Committee
monitoring of budget       regularly on a           website or newspaper    of historical budget       meetings held
execution.                 quarterly basis during   with national           execution data.            irregularly.
                           FY2009, and              coverage.                                          Budgetary reports
                           produced budget          Reports include basic                              are available to the
                           execution reports for    information on                                     public and provide
                           each of the four         spending in social                                 only summary

                                                                                   25
                      quarters of FY2009.        sectors.                                         budget execution
                      (as demonstrated by                                                         information
                      the compilation of                                                          (economic
                      four budget execution                                                       classification).
                      reports by the
                      budgetary committee                                                         2007 PEFA               PEFA indicator PI-4
                      for 2009).                                                                  indicator PI-4 on       improved to C.
                                                                                                  arrears monitoring
                                                                                                  and accumulation
                                                                                                  rated: D

                                                                                                  2007 PEFA               PEFA indicator PI-10
                                                                                                  indicator PI-10 on      improved to C.
                                                                                                  public access to
                                                                                                  budgetary
                                                                                                  information rated:
                                                                                                  D
Comprehensive         The Recipient has          The government           Progress on             A PFM action plan                              VP in charge of
upgrading of Public   taken initial steps for    implements the first     implementation of the   exists but it has not                          Finance
Financial             the implementation of      tri-annual PFM action    action plan.            been implemented.
Management tools,     the PFM strategy and       plan 2010-12 , which
capacity and          action plan, through       in particular                                    2007 PEFA               PEFA indicator PI-5
processes.            the establishment of a     demonstrates                                     indicator PI-5 on       improved to C+.
                      focal point to be          improved capacity for                            budget
                      responsible for the        budget and                                       classification rated:
                      implementation of the      strengthened internal                            C
                      plan and monitoring        and external controls.
                      of progress. (as           (as demonstrated by                              2007 PEFA               PEFA indicators PI-6
                      demonstrated by an         the preparation of 2                             indicators PI-6 &       & 7 improved to C+.
                      official decision with     semi-annual status                               7on budget
                      regulatory power           report on                                        exhaustivity rated:C
                      instituting a task force   implementation of the
                      or focal point).           action plan) .                                   2007 PEFA               PEFA indicator PI-21
                                                                                                  indicator PI-21 on      improved to D+
                                                                                                  the efficiency of
                                                                                                  internal controls
                                                                                                  rated: D




                                                                                26
                               Broad policy objective 2 : Strengthening public sector efficiency and accountability
                                     DPL POLICY ACTIONS                                         EXPECTED OUTCOMES
                         Prior Action              Trigger                Indicator               Baseline      Target                                   Responsible
      Objective
                                                   for continued                                                                                          Authority
                                                   support
Improved wage bill       The Recipient has         System is              Automatization of         Payroll established      Payrolls produced         VP in charge of
management.              developed and             operationalized to     payroll                   based largely on         automatically through     Finance
                         automated payroll         manage civil service                             manual input with        the new application for
                         system for the            human resources and                              no automated             at least 80% of civil
                         management of the         payroll (as                                      control mechanism.       servants.
                         civil service wage bill   demonstrated by its
                         (as demonstrated by a     use in producing                                 2007 PEFA                PEFA indicator PI-18
                         technical audit of the    payrolls).                                       indicator PI-18 on       improved to C.
                         software and its official                                                  the efficiency of
                         validation).                                                               payroll controls
                                                                                                    rated: D
Improved deployment                               The lists of admitted   Share of new              While the HACS           At least 90% of all new   VP in charge of
of civil service human                            candidates (ranked by   recruitments into the     has a legal mandate      recruitments for          Finance
resources.                                        order of merit) to      civil service that were   to review and            category A` civil
                                                  competitive             made following a          validate each new        servants are done
                                                  examinations for        competitive selection     recruitment (A           following a competitive
                                                  entry into the civil    process managed by        level) into the civil    selection process
                                                  service for category    the HACS                  service,                 managed by the HACS.
                                                  A are                                             recruitments are still
                                                  systematically                                    often carried out
                                                  published in a                                    with ex post
                                                  newspaper with                                    notification to the
                                                  national coverage.                                HACS.




                                                                                27
                            ANNEX 3: FUND RELATIONS NOTE

On September 21, 2009, the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
approved a three-year, SDR 13.57 million (about US$21.5 million), arrangement under the
Extended Credit Facility (ECF) for the Union of the Comoros to support the authorities`
economic program aimed at promoting sustained strong growth to achieve deeper gains in
poverty alleviation and faster progress towards the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
The decision enabled the Comoros to draw the equivalent of SDR 4.23 million (about US$6.70
million) from the IMF.

The Extended Credit Facility (ECF) succeeds the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
(PRGF) as the Fund`s main tool for providing medium-term support low income countries. It
supports countries` economic programs aimed at moving toward a stable and sustainable
macroeconomic position consistent with strong and durable poverty reduction and growth.
Financing under the ECF carries a zero interest rate, with a grace period of 5½ years, and a final
maturity of 10 years.

On March 29, 2010 the IMF Executive Board had deemed, on a preliminary assessment, that the
Union of the Comoros is eligible for assistance under the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor
Countries (HIPC) Initiative. The IDA Executive Board`s assessment followed on April 8, 2010.
The assessment is a step towards forgiveness of the majority of the country`s foreign debt stock,
which is estimated at US$285.9 million as of end-2009 (US$248.8 million in net present value
terms).

In commenting on the Executive Board`s discussion, Mr. Naoyuki Shinohara, IMF Deputy
Managing Director and Acting Chair, said: The Union of the Comoros is potentially eligible for
debt relief under the Enhanced HIPC Initiative and could reach the decision point under the
Initiative in mid-2010. Achieving this milestone is subject to satisfactory completion of the first
review under the ECF and agreement by the authorities on appropriate completion point triggers
to be included in the decision point document.

In the last year, the government has made encouraging efforts in implementing economic
reforms with IMF support under the Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance and ECF. In
September 2009, the authorities adopted their first full Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. Going
forward, they are encouraged to strengthen fiscal performance, particularly by improving
revenue mobilization and enhancing control over the wage bill. Efforts will also be needed in the
period ahead to enhance the effectiveness of the PRSP, notably by focusing on key projects and
reforms, consistent with implementation capacity and mobilized financial resources.

Recent Economic Developments and Short-Term Prospects

Economic growth in 2009 is estimated to have slightly increased to 1.8 percent, from 1 percent in
2008, reflecting the effects of an uptick in donor support and foreign direct investment in
banking; and resilient remittances. Inflation remained broadly under control, owing to a fall in
world energy and food prices. A strengthening of the terms of trade and significant external

                                                28
budget assistance helped narrow the external current account deficit to 7.9 percent of GDP in
2009 from 11.3 percent of GDP in 2008. Gross international reserves rose to the equivalent of
7.1 months of imports, driven by assistance from development partners and the general and
special allocations of special drawing rights (SDRs) from the IMF to member countries. A
programmed strengthening of the fiscal position did not materialize, but monetary conditions
were supportive. The authorities slightly exceeded their 2009 revenue target. However, progress
in budget consolidation was frustrated by overruns on current spending, including personnel
outlays, as the authorities continued experiencing difficulties in managing the wage bill, which
increased to 9 percent of GDP (8.8 percent of GDP in 2008) compared with a program target of
8.7 percent of GDP. Also, the government granted a CF 1.7 billion (0.9 percent of GDP) capital
transfer to Comoros Telecoms to help the stated-owned company meet its share of the cost of a
regional under-ocean optic fiber communication cable project. As a result of these developments,
the domestic primary budget deficit stagnated at 2.6 percent of GDP close to the level in 2008,
compared with a program objective of 1.6 percent of GDP. Reflecting enhanced financial
intermediation, credit to the private sector substantially increased, accruing mostly to short-term
trade activities.

Real GDP growth is expected to firm further to 2 percent in 2010, supported by a healthier
external environment, higher donor-funded spending for public works and resumption of private
sector infrastructure projects in tourism. Preliminary indications point to continuing low
pressures on domestic prices in 2010. The authorities concur about the need to resume fiscal
consolidation in support of their macroeconomic objectives; they are targeting a reduction of the
domestic primary balance to 1.2 percent of GDP.

Program Summary

The government`s medium-term macroeconomic program supported by the ECF is designed to
help reduce poverty and accelerate progress towards the MDGs. It draws from Comoros` Poverty
Reduction and Growth Strategy, which focuses on the following strategic areas: laying the
ground for sustainable economic development; stimulating private sector activities; developing
the agricultural, fishing, and tourism sectors; strengthening governance, the judiciary, and
security; and enhancing human capital.

The program seeks to achieve the following medium-term macroeconomic objectives: (i) real
GDP growth of 3½ percent by 2012; (ii) an inflation rate contained below 3 percent, under the
zone franc currency peg; (iii) limitation of the external current account deficit to just below 12
percent of GDP by 2012; and (iv) raising the investment ratio to 17.6 percent of GDP by 2012.

To achieve these objectives, the authorities` program notably focuses on:

       Increasing public investment by an estimated 1.7 percentage points of GDP over the
       program period;

       Raising domestic revenue to the equivalent of at least 14.6 percent of GDP in 2012, with
       tax revenues reaching a projected 12.8 percent of GDP;


                                                 29
       Reforming the civil service and personnel management to help contain the wage bill and
       free increased resources for growth-supporting outlays in the priority sectors;

       Restructuring public enterprises in the energy and telecommunication sectors, with
       support from donors.

The Union of the Comoros joined the IMF on September 21, 1976; its quota is SDR 8.9 million
(about US$13.4 million). Its outstanding use of IMF financing currently totals SDR 6.5 million
(about US$9.7 million).




                                              30
                                                           ANNEX 4: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
Comoros at a glance                                                                                                                                                  2/25/10

                                                                                             Sub-
Ke y D e v e lo pm e nt Indic a t o rs                                                    Saharan           Lo w
                                                                           Co mo ro s       A frica      inco me         Age distribution, 2008
(2008)
                                                                                                                                        Male                             Female

P o pulatio n, mid-year (millio ns)                                             0.64           81 8         973         75-79
Surface area (tho usand sq. km)                                                   1.9       24,242        19,310        60-64
P o pulatio n gro wth (%)                                                        2.4            2.5           2.1
Urban po pulatio n (% o f to tal po pulatio n)                                    28            36            29        45-49

                                                                                                                        30-34
GNI (A tlas metho d, US$ billio ns)                                               0.5             885        510
                                                                                                                        15-19
GNI per capita (A tlas metho d, US$ )                                            750            1,082        524
GNI per capita (P P P , internatio nal $ )                                      1 70
                                                                                 ,1             1 ,991     1,407          0-4

                                                                                                                                10            5               0          5          10
GDP gro wth (%)                                                                   1.0             5.0        6.4                         percent of total population
GDP per capita gro wth (%)                                                       -1.4             2.5        4.2

( m o s t re c e nt e s t im a t e , 2 0 0 3 ­ 2 0 0 8 )

                                  .25
P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 1 a day (P P P , %)                               46               51         ..
                                                                                                                        Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)
P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 2.00 a day (P P P , %)                            65               73         ..
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                                  65               52        59
                                                                                                                        200
Infant mo rtality (per 1,000 live births)                                         49               89        78
Child malnutritio n (% o f children under 5)                                       ..              27        28
                                                                                                                        150

                                   5
A dult literacy, male (% o f ages 1 and o lder)                                   80               71         72
                                                                                                                        100
                                     5
A dult literacy, female (% o f ages 1 and o lder)                                 70               54         55
Gro ss primary enro llment, male (% o f age gro up)                               91              103        102
                                                                                                                         50
Gro ss primary enro llment, female (% o f age gro up)                             80               93         95

                                                                                                                          0
A ccess to an impro ved water so urce (% o f po pulatio n)                        85               58        67
A ccess to impro ved sanitatio n facilities (% o f po pulatio n)                  35               31        38                        1990            1995       2000    2007


                                                                                                                                 Comoros                  Sub-Saharan Africa


                                                                                                                    a
N e t A id F lo ws                                             19 8 0          19 9 0       2000          2008

(US$ millio ns)
Net ODA and o fficial aid                                         43              45               19        44         Growth of GDP and GDP per capita (%)
To p 3 do no rs (in 2007):
 France                                                            12             24                11        18        10
 Euro pean Co mmissio n                                             3              7                4         13
 Switzerland                                                        0              0                0           1        5


                                                                                                                         0
A id (% o f GNI)                                                34.8             18.0             9.3        9.5
A id per capita (US$ )                                           129             103              35          71
                                                                                                                         -5


Lo ng- T e rm E c o no m ic T re nds                                                                                    -10

                                                                                                                                                  95                           05
Co nsumer prices (annual % change)                                    ..         -7.4             5.9        3.0
GDP implicit deflato r (annual % change)                       14.6               2.2             3.8        5.5
                                                                                                                                        GDP                         GDP per capita

Exchange rate (annual average, lo cal per US$ )                   1
                                                                21 .3          272.3            534.0      335.9
Terms o f trade index (2000 = 100)                                0               11
                                                                                   1              100        109
                                                                                                                        19 8 0 ­ 9 0 19 9 0 ­ 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 ­ 0 8
                                                                                                                               (average annual gro wth %)
P o pulatio n, mid-year (millio ns)                              0.3              0.4             0.5        0.6                 2.6                     2.2                 2.2
GDP (US$ millio ns)                                              124             250             202        530                  2.8                     1.2                 2.0
                                                                                 (% o f GDP )
A griculture                                                    34.0            41.4             48.6       45.8                 4.0                     2.6               1.2
Industry                                                        13.2             8.3              1 .5
                                                                                                   1        12.0                -2.9                     3.9               2.6
  M anufacturing                                                 3.9             4.2              4.5        4.2                 4.9                     1.6               1.4
Services                                                        52.8            50.3             39.9      38.0                  3.1                    -0.6              3.1

Ho useho ld final co nsumptio n expenditure                     79.2            78.7             94.0       96.0                 3.0                     3.9                 3.4
General go v't final co nsumptio n expenditure                  30.9            24.5               1
                                                                                                  1 .7       12.1                1.8                    -4.7                 0.0
Gro ss capital fo rmatio n                                      33.2            19.7              10.1       16.1               -4.2                    -4.9                 6.8

Expo rts o f go o ds and services                                 8.7            14.3            16.7       12.8                 9.3                     -1.8             -2.0
Impo rts o f go o ds and services                                51.9            37.1            32.5       36.9                -0.2                      -1.1             5.0
Gro ss savings                                                      ..           -1.3             9.9        8.9


No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified. 2008 data are preliminary. .. indicates data are no t available.
a. A id data are fo r 2007.

Develo pment Eco no mics, Develo pment Data Gro up (DECDG).


                                                                                          31
                                                                                                                                                                       Comoros

B a la nc e o f P a ym e nt s a nd T ra de                      2000       2008
                                                                                           Governance indicators, 2000 and 2008
(US$ millio ns)
To tal merchandise expo rts (fo b)                                  14        11
To tal merchandise impo rts (cif)                                   56      154             Voice and accountability
Net trade in go o ds and services                                  -32        1
                                                                            -1 2
                                                                                                      Political stability

Current acco unt balance                                              0      -24
                                                                                                    Regulatory quality
 as a % o f GDP                                                    -0.2     -4.6
                                                                                                           Rule of law
Wo rkers' remittances and
 co mpensatio n o f emplo yees (receipts)                            12      12                 Control of corruption

Reserves, including go ld                                             ..      ..                                            0        25           50           75         100

                                                                                                      2008                      Country's percentile rank (0-100)
C e nt ra l G o v e rnm e nt F ina nc e                                                                                           higher values imply better ratings
                                                                                                      2000

(% o f GDP )
                                                                                          Source: Kaufmann-Kraay-Mastruzzi, World Bank
Current revenue (including grants)                                 10.2     16.8
 Tax revenue                                                        9.0     13.8
Current expenditure                                                12.5     18.3
                                                                                        T e c hno lo gy a nd Inf ra s t ruc t ure                          2000          2008
Overall surplus/deficit                                            -6.1     -9.4
                                                                                        P aved ro ads (% o f to tal)                                          76.5                  ..
Highest marginal tax rate (%)                                                           Fixed line and mo bile pho ne
 Individual                                                           ..      ..                             00
                                                                                         subscribers (per 1 peo ple)                                                1           9
 Co rpo rate                                                          ..      ..        High techno lo gy expo rts
                                                                                         (% o f manufactured expo rts)                                         0.5         0.6
E xt e rna l D e bt a nd R e s o urc e F lo ws
                                                                                        E nv iro nm e nt
(US$ millio ns)
To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                             237       281        A gricultural land (% o f land area)                                   78          80
To tal debt service                                                  3        12        Fo rest area (% o f land area)                                         4.3         3.0
Debt relief (HIP C, M DRI)                                           ­         ­        Natio nally pro tected areas (% o f land area)                           ..                 ..

To tal debt (% o f GDP )                                           1
                                                                  1 7.2     53.1        Freshwater reso urces per capita (cu. meters)                      2,129           ,91
                                                                                                                                                                          1 0
To tal debt service (% o f expo rts)                                5.1      9.3        Freshwater withdrawal (billio n cubic meters)                        0.0                    ..

Fo reign direct investment (net inflo ws)                            0        8         CO2 emissio ns per capita (mt)                                        0.16         0.15
P o rtfo lio equity (net inflo ws)                                   0        0
                                                                                        GDP per unit o f energy use
                                                                                         (2005 P P P $ per kg o f o il equivalent)                                  ..              ..
  Composition of total external debt, 2008
                                                                                        Energy use per capita (kg o f o il equivalent)                              ..              ..
                                              Short-term, 6
                                 Private, 0
                                                     IBRD, 0
                    Bilateral, 52                                                       Wo rld B a nk G ro up po rt f o lio                                2000          2008
                                                               IDA, 122
                                                                                        (US$ millio ns)

                                                                                        IB RD
                                                                                         To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                                     0             0
                                                                                         Disbursements                                                              0             0
                  Other multi-                                                           P rincipal repayments                                                      0             0
                  lateral, 96                                                            Interest payments                                                          0             0
                                                    IMF, 5

  US$ millions                                                                          IDA
                                                                                         To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                                  71         122
                                                                                         Disbursements                                                            2           1
P riv a t e S e c t o r D e v e lo pm e nt                      2000       2008          To tal debt service                                                      2           3

Time required to start a business (days)                             ­       23         IFC (fiscal year)
Co st to start a business (% o f GNI per capita)                     ­     188.6         To tal disbursed and o utstanding po rtfo lio                              ­             ­
Time required to register pro perty (days)                           ­       24           o f which IFC o wn acco unt                                               ­             ­
                                                                                         Disbursements fo r IFC o wn acco unt                                       ­             ­
Ranked as a majo r co nstraint to business                      2000       2008          P o rtfo lio sales, prepayments and
 (% o f managers surveyed who agreed)                                                     repayments fo r IFC o wn acco unt                                         ­             ­
  n.a.                                                                ..      ..
  n.a.                                                                ..      ..        M IGA
                                                                                         Gro ss expo sure                                                           ­             ­
Sto ck market capitalizatio n (% o f GDP )                            ..      ..         New guarantees                                                             ­             ­
B ank capital to asset ratio (%)                                      ..      ..


No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified. 2008 data are preliminary.                                                                        2/25/10
.. indicates data are no t available. ­ indicates o bservatio n is no t applicable.

Develo pment Eco no mics, Develo pment Data Gro up (DECDG).


                                                                                   32
 ANNEX 5: DPOs IN FRAGILE STATES HAVE BEEN MAINSTREAMED ­ MOSTLY
                     IN SUPPORT OF PFM REFORMS

Sample of DPOs in Fragile States (Adapted from the DPL Retrospective 2009)
Country             FY                     Volume         Operations       Main Areas of Focus
                                           ($ m)          Reviewed
Afghanistan         FY 07                  80             1                PFM & Civil Service Reform
                                                                           Social sectors
                                                                           PSD
Burundi             FY 07                  60             1                PFM
                                                                           Social sectors
                                                                           PSD
CAR                 FY 07 / 08 / 09        82 / 7.9 / 5   3                PFM & Fiscal
                                                                           Governance
                                                                           PSD
Cote d`Ivoire       FY 08                  308            1                PFM & Fiscal
                                                                           Governance
                                                                           PSD
Haiti               FY 07                  23             1                PFM & Civil Service Reform
                                                                           Social sectors
Lao PDR             FY 06 / 07 / 08        8 / 10 / 10    3                PFM & Fiscal
                                                                           Social sectors
                                                                           PSD
Liberia             FY 08                  430            1                PFM & Fiscal
                                                                           Governance
Sierra Leone        FY 07                  10             1                PFM & Decentralization
                                                                           Governance & SOEs
                                                                           Social sectors
Togo                FY 08                  175            1                PFM & Fiscal
                                                                           Governance
                                                                           PSD

DPOs Pipeline in Fragile States (blends included): FY10-11
Country                              FY                                Volume
Afghanistan                          FY 11                             60
Bosnia Herzegovina                   FY 10                             96
Burundi                              FY 10 / FY11                      25 / 25
CAR                                  FY 10                             8.9
Comoros                              FY 10                             3
Cote d`Ivoire                        FY 10                             125
Georgia                              FY 10 / FY11                      85 / 35
Guinea Bissau                        FY 10                             6
Haiti                                FY 10                             12.5
Liberia                              FY 10                             11
Sao Tome and Principe                FY 10                             2
Sierra Leone                         FY 10 / FY10 / FY 11              10 / 4 / 7
Sudan                                FY 11                             50
Tajikistan                           FY 10 / FY11                      20 / 10




                                                    33
ANNEX 6: MAP




     34
                                                                                                  43°30'E                                                                   44°00'E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COM OROS
                                                                                                                                                               INDIAN             OCEAN
                                                                        Bangoua Kouni                                                                                                                                              SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                              Mitsamiouli
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ADMINISTRATIVE SEATS
                                                                                  Chézani
                                             Djomani                                                                                                                                                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                           Ntsaouéni                                                                                                                                                                               MAIN ROADS

                11°30'S                                              Mbéni
                                                                     Mbéni
                                                                     Mbé                                                                                                                               11°30'S
                                                                                  Grande
                                              Hahaîa                              Comore                                                                                                                                                 44°30'E

                                                                             Itsikoudi

                                                             Koimbani
                                                                                  NJAZIDJA
                                                                               Chamoni
                                           Ntsoudjini
                                                                                     Sidjou

                                    MORONI
                                                                                         Tsangadjou
                                                                     Le Kartala
                                           Ikoni                     (2360 m)                                                                                                                                                            COMOROS
                                                             Boboni                           Pidjani


                                             Mitsoudjé

                                                                         Kourani
                                                                        Dembén
                                                                        Dembén
                                                                        Dembé                       Foumbouni



                                                                                                    Chindini




                12°00'S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12°00'S



                                                                                                                                                 Mozambique                       Channel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Jimilimé

                                                                                                                                                                                                 Anjouan                Ouani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Hajoho


                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mutsamudu
                                                                                                                                                                                            Bimbini                                            Bambao
                                                                                                                       Moheli                                                                         Sima

                                                                                                                                 Hoani
                                                                                                                                                                                                      N Z WA N I                  Ntingi            Domoni
                   0       5        10     15 Kilometers                                                                                       Fomboni                                                                 Moya     (1595 m)
                                                                                                                                                     Djoyézi
                                                                                                                Miringoni
                                                                                                                             M WA L I                                                                                    Pomoni
                   0            5            10           15 Miles                                                   Ouallah                                   Hagnamouda
                                                                                                                                         Ziroudani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mramani
                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                      Nioumachoua                                Itsamia
                                                                                                                                      Méa      Sambia                                                                              Salapouni
                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                          Hamavouna
                                                                                                                 Magnougni
DECEMBER 2004




                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33389
                  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                     Kanzoni           Chandzi
                  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                   Ouénéfou



                                                                                                  43°30'E                                                                   44°00'E                                                      44°30'E
