                                           CONFORMED COPY



                                     GRANT NUMBER H577 KM




Financing Agreement
  (Economic Governance Reform Support Grant)


                   between


         UNION OF THE COMOROS


                     and


INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




              Dated July 14, 2010
                                                           GRANT NUMBER H577 KM

                              FINANCING AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT date July 14, 2010, entered into between UNION OF THE
COMOROS (“Recipient?) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(“Association?) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this
financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken
under the Program and which are described in Section I of the Schedule to this
Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy
framework. The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows:

             ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to two
        million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,000,000) (“Financing?); and

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the
        Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04.   The Payment Dates are January 1 and July 1 in each year.

2.05.   The Payment Currency is Euro.
                                          -2-



                            ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01    The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
        To this end:

        (a)     the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request
                of either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
                framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
                Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
                achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
                shall reasonably request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
                Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any
                situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives
                of the Program or any action taken under the Program.

              ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   An Additional Event of Suspension shall occur if a situation has arisen which
        shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be
        carried out.

               ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: the
        Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying
        out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
        framework.

5.02    The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.

               ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is the Recipient’s Minister responsible for
        finance.
                                         -3-



6.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

               Ministry of Finance, Budget and Female Entrepreneurship
               B.P. 324
               Moroni
               Union of the Comoros

6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

               International Development Association
               1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
               United States of America

               Cable address:           Telex:                Facsimile:

               INDEVAS                  248423(MCI)           1-202-477-6391
               Washington, D.C.
                                        -4-



       AGREED at New York, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.




                       UNION OF THE COMOROS




                       By: // s// El Marouf

                                                     Authorized Representative




                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                       By: //s// Johannes Zutt

                                                     Authorized Representative
                                          -5-



                                     SCHEDULE 1

                Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds

Section I.      Actions under the Program

        The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:

        Strengthening public financial management

        1.      The Recipient has prepared a consolidated budget for FY 2010, using a
                participatory process involving all concerned stakeholders.

        2.      The Budgetary Committee has met regularly and on a quarterly basis
                during FY 2009, and produced budget execution reports for each of the
                four quarters of FY 2009.

        3.      The Recipient has taken initial steps for the implementation of the PFM
                Strategy and Action Plan, though the establishment of a focal point to be
                responsible for the implementation of the strategy and action plan and
                monitor progress.

        Strengthening public sector efficiency and accountability

        4.      The Recipient has developed an automated payroll system for the
                management of the wage bill in the civil service.

        5.      The Recipient has taken steps to reaffirm the pre-eminent role of HAFOP
                in the recruitment of Level A Civil Servants through the issuance of an
                administrative circular reminding concerned ministries and agencies that
                no such recruitment can be undertaken otherwise than on the basis of the
                outcome of a competitive selection process, responsibility for which
                vests exclusively in HAFOP.

Section II.     Availability of Financing Proceeds

A.      General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in
        accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as
        the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient.

B.      Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a single
        tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals. The allocation of the
        amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table below:
                                       -6-




                                             Amount of the Financing Allocated
                 Allocation                        (expressed in SDR)

      Single Withdrawal Tranche                           2,000,000

      TOTAL AMOUNT                                        2,000,000


C.   Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

     No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
     Association is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient;
     and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
     framework.

D.   Deposits of Financing Amounts. Except as the Association may otherwise
     agree:

     1.      all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the
             Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable
             to the Association; and

     2.      the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
             Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
             Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
             Association.

E.   Audit. Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall:

     1.      have the account referred to in Section II.D.1 of Schedule 1 to this
             Agreement audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
             Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
             acceptable to the Association;

     2.      furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
             than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such
             audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in
             such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and

     3.      furnish to the Association such other information concerning such
             accounts and their audit as the Association shall reasonably request.
                                      -7-



F.   Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the
     Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association
     determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a
     payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice
     from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to
     the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be
     cancelled.

G.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2011.
                                         -8-



                                     APPENDIX

Section I.     Definitions

1.      “Budgetary Committee? means the committee established pursuant to a
        ministerial order (arrêté ministériel), dated July 2005, to monitor budget
        execution and produce periodic reports on budget execution.

2.      “Excluded Expenditure? means any expenditure:

        (a)    for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national
               or international financing institution or agency other than the Association
               or the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association
               or the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant
               or loan;

        (b)    for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
               International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
               by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
               (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
               revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the
               Recipient:

                      Group            Sub-group               Description of Item
                       112                             Alcoholic beverages
                       121                             Tobacco, un-manufactured,
                                                       tobacco refuse
                        122                            Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                                       or not containing tobacco
                                                       substitutes)
                        525                            Radioactive and associated
                                                       materials
                        667                            Pearls, precious and semiprecious
                                                       stones, unworked or worked
                        718              718.7         Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                       thereof; fuel elements (cartridges),
                                                       non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors
                        728              728.43        Tobacco processing machinery
                        897              897.3         Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
                                                       group metals (except watches and
                                                       watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                                       silversmiths’ wares (including set
                                                       gems)
                        971                            Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                                       gold ores and concentrates)
                                        -9-



     (c)     for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
             consumption;

     (d)     for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
             which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international
             agreements to which the Recipient is a party;

     (e)     on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
             Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
             United Nations; and

     (f)     with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
             collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
             Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the
             Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate
             action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they
             occur.

3.   “Fiscal Year? or “FY? means the twelve-month period commencing on January 1
     and ending on December 31 of each year, representing the Recipient’s fiscal
     year.

4.   “HAFOP? means Haute Autorité de la Fonction Publique, the High Authority of
     Civil Service, established pursuant to Law No. 04-006/AU governing the civil
     service, adopted by the Recipient’s National Assembly on November 10, 2004,
     and promulgated pursuant to Decree No. 05-005/PR, dated January 24, 2005.

5.   “General Conditions? means the “International Development Association
     General Conditions for Credits and Grants?, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended
     through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this
     Appendix.

6.   “Level A Civil Servant? means a civil servant whose position in the civil service
     corresponds to a position of management, conception and control.

7.   “Program? means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
     promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
     referred to in the letter dated April 16, 210, from the Recipient to the Association
     declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
     requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its
     execution.

8.   “PFM? means Public Financial Management.

9.   “PFM Strategy and Action Plan? means the public financial management
     strategy, with an action plan attached, dated December 30, 2009, adopted by the
                                        - 10 -



       Recipient with a view to upgrading its PFM tools, capacity and processes, and
       whose first phase covers the three-year period 2010-2012.

10.    “Single Withdrawal Tranche? means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
       category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche? in the table set forth in Part B of
       Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for
Credits and Grants?, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as
follows:

1.     The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
       Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.     Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
       in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
       accordingly.

3.     Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to
       read as follows:

               “Section 2.05. Refinancing Preparation Advance

                       If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of
               the proceeds of the Financing of an advance made by the Association or
               the Bank (“Preparation Advance?), the Association shall, on behalf of the
               Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the
               Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and
               outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal
               from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if
               any, on the advance as at such date. The Association shall pay the
               amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall
               cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.?


4.     Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
       Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
       Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly.

5.     Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
       and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
                                      - 11 -



6.   Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
     above) is modified to read as follows:

            “Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records

            …       (c)      The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
            invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
            under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient
            shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.?

7.   Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to
     read as follows:

            Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

            …       (c)     The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
            furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing
            Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
            reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by
            the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under
            the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
            Financing.

8.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure? is modified to read as
            follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in
            support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
            pursuant to the Financing Agreement.?

     (b)    The term “Financial Statements? and its definition as set forth in the
            Appendix are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)    The term “Project? is modified to read “Program? and its definition is
            modified to read as follows:

            “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in
            support of which the Financing is made.? All references to “Project?
            throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
            “Program?.
                              - 12 -



(d)   The term “Program Preparation Advance? (renamed as such pursuant to
      subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance?
      and its definition is modified to read as follows:

      “‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing
      Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.?
