Document of              FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1014a-GR
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
GREE CE
March 24, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            Drachma (Dr)
US$1.00                  Dr 35
US$28.57                 Dr 1,000
US$28,571                Dr 1,000,000
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric System                      British/US System
1 meter (m)                    =   3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                   0.62 miles
1 sq centimeter (cm2)          =   0.155 sq inch
1 sq kilometer (kn2)               0.386 sq miles
1 hectare (ha)                     2.47 acres
1 liter (1)                        61.02 cu inch
1 metric ton (m ton)           =   2,205 pounds
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
cyc       -    cycles
DEO       -    District Engineer's Office
ER        -    Economic Return
GRT       -    Gross Registered Tons
h         -    hour
hp        -    horse power
MCP       -    Ministry of Coordination and Planning
min       -    minute
MPW       -    Ministry of Public Works
O-D       -    Origin-Dest:ination
SEO       -    Superintending Engineer's Office
TCC       -    Transport Coordination Committee
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Programme
vpd       -    Vehicles per day
GREECE
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
GREECE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
INTRODUCTION AND  SUMNARY  . .. ... . ..........................                    i-xii
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  .................................... .                             1
A.    Effect of Geography and  Economic  Growth on Transport.                            1
B.    Transport System  ................                ..      ... .. . .. ..           1
C.    Transport Policy,  Planning  and Coordination  .........                          5
II.    THE HIGHWAY  SUBSECTOR ............................                      . ..             7
A.    Network  ..................................................... ..                  7
B. Traffic ......................    8
C. Administration                               ......   9
D.    Planning  ...............................................  .......               11
E.    Financing  ...........................................                           13
F.    Engineering  ........ .............                ....................          14
G.    Construction  .................                 ....................             14
H.    Maintenance           ..................... ................                     14
I.    Training  .,.............................................                       ..........  15
III.    THE PROJECT                  .............................................               16
A.    Objectives  .... ......... .............                   ...........           16
B.    Description  .......           .................................                 17
C.    Engineering  .....................................................               23
D.  Cost Estimates .................... .                                              24
E.    Financing  ........            ..................................                26
F.    Implementation                  .....................................            26
G.    Disbursements  .......              ...............................              29
H.    Environmental and Urban Aspects  ....................                            30
Attachment
Ministry of Public Works.
Technical Assistance for Road Maintenance and Planning:
Terms of Reference  ..              ............... ....                             36
This report was prepared by Messrs. Niels Erik Krogh-Poulsen (Economist) and
David Powrie (Engineer).
r   -his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without IFC authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                           Page No.
IV.   ECONOMIC  ANALYSIS  ........................     .......         49
A.   Main Benefits and Beneficiaries ...*...*.........           49
B.   Road Construction .................................         49
C.   Other Project Elements ..............                       55
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....................       56
Annex
Documents Available in Project File ......................       59
Maps
IBRD 11917 - Transport System
IBRD 12023 - Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia Road Project
This report is based on information provided by the Government; the
Italian consulting firm Sauti; the French consulting firm Ingeroute; a Greek
consulting group consisting of Eupalinos, Yotis, Vounousakis, Emmanuel,
Helliotechniki, Melerdos, Hadzidakis, and Koumantikis; and the findings of
a highway appraisal mission to Greece in December 1975 consisting of Messrs.
Ubaldo Aguirre (Engineer), Niels Erik Krogh-Poulsen (Economist), and David
Powrie (Engineer). Additional reports and data related to the project avail-
able in the Bank are listed in the Annex.



STAFF PROJECT REPORT
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
GREECE
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
A. Transportation in Greece
General
1.        The transport infrastructure of Greece comprises 40,200 km of roads,
2,600 km of railways, 18 main ports and 30 airports - of which 9 handle inter-
national traffic. The mountainous nature of the countrv, its 15,000 km long
coastline with almost 20 percent of the land area dispersed among many small
islands, and the large part of the population living in small villages, ex-
plain the natural predominance of road transport and shipping. Of the total
freight ton-km currently transported inside the country, an estimated 55 per-
cent is carried by road and 30 percent by sea. The north-south transport
corridor connecting Athens and Thessaloniki and the east-west transport cor-
ridor connecting Athens and Patras in the Peloponnese, are the main arteries
of the transport system. Both corridors are served by road, coastal shipping,
railway and civil aviation. Shipping services meet the demand for transport
between the islands and the mainland; besides this, more than 95 percent of
imports and exports are transported by sea. The extent of the transport
infrastructure is generally adequate in relation to Greece's present level
of development.
Transport Planning and Coordination
2.        Long-term transport policy aims at the creation of a system at i
minimum cost, which can meet the increased transport demand resulting f m
economic growth through the establishment of: (i) the necessary arte es
connecting the large urban centers, industrial areas, and surroundin regions
and principal agricultural areas ; (ii) a provincial road network   nnecting
smaller communities with the urban centers, which provide them wi   markets
and the necessary social services; and (iii) more effective con  ctions
between Greece and the rest of the world.
3.        Planning in the transport sector is presently done by the agencies
responsible for the various modes. Over the past decade, these agencies have
studied a number of transport projects and increasingly use feasibility studies
of large or complex projects as a basis for investment decisions.  Minor proj-
ects, including highway improvements and maintenance works, however, are not
subject to formalized planning. Although there is a need for coordination
among the various agencies and modes in the transportation field, there is
no central authority capable of setting inter-modal priorities and planning
development. Coordination is presently the responsibility of the Ministry of



- ii -
Coordination and Planning (MCP), which has limited staff for this purpose. The
Government considers that a re-evaluation of the present system and its
development is needed.
4.        The immediate priorities are therefore:  (a) the establishment of a
national transport coordinating mechanism; and (b) a review of the strategy
for transport development.  The MCP and the Ministry of Public Works (MPW)
established an ad hoc interdepartmental working group in 1972 to monitor
investment studies in the highway sub-sector. The Government now intends to
expand the working group into a permanent transport coordination committee,
extending its scope to cover all modes of transport.  This committee would
then review Greece's transport development strategy.
Transport Sub-Sectors other than Highways
5.        The railway system is controlled by the publicly owned Hellenic Rail-
way Organization and comprises about 2,500 km of railways lines. Sixty-two
percent of these lines are standard gauge railway from Athens to Thessaloniki
and on to the borders with Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and Turkey. The remaining 38
percent are meter gauge lines. Both domestic and international hauls are
short (less than 250 km on average). Railway traffic has increased slowly
in recent years, reflecting the low level of service offered by this mode.
6.        The whole railway system needs substantial technical and institutional
modernization and improvement, particularly if it is to play its role in of-
fering an essential north-south rapid transit axis for goods, linking the
Athens-Thessaloniki corridor to Europe. Studies carried out in 1971-73 by
the French consultant Sofrerail, recommended major improvements of main lines
and gradual closure of the meter gauge system which is uneconomic. Taking these
recommendations into account, the Government recently approved a Dr. 10 billion
($300 million) 5-year plan for improving Greek railways. This plan envisages
major improvements to the Athens-Thessaloniki and Athens-Corinth lines (electri-
fication and straightening of the track to permit higher speeds) and purchase of
rolling stock and equipment.
7.        Greece has 10 general cargo ports each handling more than 100,000
tons annually. In addition, there are 8 specialized terminals for petroleum
products, coal, bauxite and iron ore. Greek ports are controlled by the Minis-
try of Merchant Marine. In 1973, total freight handled amounted to 57.8 million
tons. Annual growth since 1965 has averaged 13.6 percent for domestic traffic
and 14.4 percent for international traffic. The most important ports are
Piraeus and Thessaloniki, where large expansions and introduction of more cargo
handling equipment are needed. These two ports together handled about 6 million
passengers and 17 million tons of cargo in 1973. The Government is reviewing
the possibility and economic advantages of developing other smaller ports. To
further reduce the future pressures on the two major ports, ensure efficient
national planning on an economic basis in this sub-sector, and put port opera-
tions on a financially efficient basis, the Government is also considering a
national ports master planning study.



- iii -
8.        Greece has 30 civil airports, 9 of which accommodate international
flights. The civil aviation system is controlled by the Civil Aviation Author-
ity, under the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Traffic increased by
18 percent annually from 1966 to reach 9.3 million passengers in 1973. The
Athens airport handled 65 percent of passenger traffic and 78 percent of freight
traffic in that year. The Greek commercial carrier, Olympic Airways, was taken
over by the Government, at the owner's request, in January 1975.
The Highway Sub-Sector
9.        The highway network in Greece is used by over 600,000 vehicles
(buses, trucks and cars). Of the classified highway network of about
40,200 km, only about 17,900 km are paved. Of the latter, about 8,500 km are
classified as national roads, the rest being provincial roads. A part of the
national road system has been built to very high multi-lane standards, while
the provincial network is of considerably lower standard. To serve present
and future traffic needs economically, improvements in a number of road
sections are required to remove capacity restraints and to by-pass villages
and towns causing serious bottlenecks. In addition, there is an urgent need
for a properly planned and economically implemented maintenance program for
the entire road network in Greece.
10.       Until recently, there was no systematic long-term planning of new
roads or road improvements based on traffic projections or economic priorities.
Roads have often been built or improved to standards not justified by traffic.
A UNDP-financed study carried out between 1972 and 1974 by the French consult-
ing firm of Ingeroute, with the Bank as executing agency, was the first attempt
at long-term planning and selection of roads for construction or improvement
on the basis of adequate feasibility studies. The Ingeroute study provided a
highway master plan for 1973-87, which included the proposed project road as
the highest-priority project. Short-term planning only of maintenance and minor
improvements has been carried out annually for budgeting purposes, and improve-
ments in short-term, and the introduction of long-term, maintenance planning are
needed. A Government-financed pilot maintenance study done between 1971 and
1973 by the Italian consulting firm Sauti constituted the first step towards
long-term planning of maintenance; the experience gained from this pilot proj-
ect forms the basis for the maintenance component of the proposed project.
11.       Road works are financed from the Government's current and investment
budgets.  In 1974, road expenditures totaled about Dr. 5.1 billion, as compared
with revenues from road user charges which totaled about Dr. 15.1 billion. The
latter are about 11 percent of the total Government revenue, which is close to
the European average.
12.       MPW is responsible for construction and maintenance works on all
national and provincial roads. Its Service of Transport Infrastructure Works
plans and supervises design, construction, and maintenance through its central
offices in Athens and seven regional offices. The present organization was
establis ed in 1970. About 400 MPW staff are engaged on road works, of which



- iv -
340 are in the field. While the qualifications of MPW staff are adequate,
training has been insufficient and has been confined to general seminars and
mostly short-term fellowships abroad for professional staff. There are no
programs specifically designed for training staff to fill particular positions,
or in management or planning techniques.
13.       Construction and most maintenance is done by contractors supervised
departmentally by MPW. Construction contracting procedures and the general
quality of construction and supervision are satisfactory. The Greek con-
tracting industry is competitive and no foreign firms are presently employed,
although there are no regulations preventing them from competing for contracts.
Maintenance however is unsatisfactory. Maintenance funds have fluctuated from
year to year and have been allocated erratically. The MPW staff, equipment
and workshops are insufficient for the limited volume of emergency maintenance
work that they currently do. Most maintenance work is carried out under road
maintenance contracts that have inadequate specifications and are poorly super-
vised. There is no system of cost control for either force account or contract
works.
B. The Project
Project History
14.       Although the possibility of a Bank-financed highway project in Greece
was discussed as early as December 1964, it was not until 1971 that Greece com-
menced the two studies, mentioned in paragraph 10 above, which form the basis
for the present project. The two-year Sauti maintenance study, for which the
Bank also provided advice, resulted in the establishment of a pilot maintenance
program in the Epirus region. In turn, this operation highlighted the need for
improved planning of road maintenance, as well as the advantages of doing routine
maintenance by force account instead of by contract. The Government wishes to
use the experience gained from the Epirus pilot program to develop a program and
organization for road maintenance and improvement for all national and provin-
cial roads.
15.       The Ingeroute study complemented the Sauti study in developing Greece's
capacity to plan for a rational allocation of funds in the highway sub-sector.
The Ingeroute study identified four priority road investments, with the highest
priority accorded to the improvement of the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road included
in the proposed project. The Government had however been considering the con-
struction of an expressway parallel to the alignment now proposed, and initial-
ly asked the Bank to consider financing construction of the other priority
roads identified by Ingeroute. The study had examined the expressway, a
costly solution, and found its construction at this time not justified. After
considerable dialogue and consultation with the Bank, the Government decided
to improve the existing road to the standards justified by anticipated traffic.



16.       In general, the two studies confirmed the weaknesses in planning in
the highway sub-sector noted in paragraph 10 above, which in the past had meant
that the most economic solutions to road construction and maintenance had often
been precluded. The Government thus requested that the Bank assist with a proj-
ect which would not only include the construction of a better-planned road and
the establishment and implementation of an improved maintenance program, but
would also assist with institutional reforms in road and transport planning.
The Government and the Bank reached agreement on the scope of a suitable proj-
ect in August 1975, and this was followed by its preparation by the Government.
The project was appraised in December 1975. Negotiations were held in Washington
in March 1976 with a Greek delegation led by Mr. Petros Papadakis, Director
General of MCP.
Project Concept and Description
17.       The proposed project, in addition to assisting with the needed con-
struction and improvement of a major road, has as a key objective, the ini-
tiation of institutional reforms in the transport sector in general, and in
the highway sub-sector in particular, to maximize the benefits that Greece can
derive from its highway system. To support these objectives, the proposed
project includes the creation of a national transport coordination committee
(TCC) to assist the Government in establishing overall transport sector in-
vestment priorities and policies; the construction and improvement of a high-
priority road designed to economically justified standards; the establish-
ment, training and equipping of an effective maintenance organization to
develop and implement an adequate and economically sound highway maintenance
program, and the carrying out of feasibility studies.
18.       The proposed project thus includes:
(a) construction and improvement, and related supervision, of
the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road;
(b) technical assistance to MPW for: (i) the development and
implemention of an organization and program for improved main-
tenance and maintenance planning procedures; and (ii) co-
ordination of feasibility studies;
(c) purchase of road maintenance and workshop equipment and
spare parts for routine maintenance of paved national
roads;
(d) feasibility studies of selected road sections (totaling
295 km);
(e) fellowships abroad for MPW senior and middle management; and
(f) technical assistance to MCP for the establishment of the
modus operandi and initial activities of a secretariat for
the Transport Coordination Committee.



- vi-
Annex IV summarizes the key events leading to appraisal and Board presentation,
special Bank actions required for implementing the proposed project, and the
special conditions provided in the Loan Agreement.
19.       Construction of the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road will provide a 100
km improved link in the main road connection of the Western Peloponnese (Map
IBRD 12023). The proposed road generally follows an existing two-lane road,
but diverges from its alignment in over 65 percent of its length. The exist-
ing road has a poor riding surface and carries both agricultural traffic and
general traffic from villages and urban ribbon development through which it
passes. When the new road is opened, the existing one will continue to serve
local traffic and provide access to the new facility. The Government has
agreed to construct the new road to design standards justified by anticipated
traffic, including a 80 km/h design speed. The road will be a two-lane car-
riageway, with surface dressed shoulders for slow moving agricultural traffic
on the Patras-Pyrgos section. Supervision of construction will be carried out
by a regular MPW contract construction supervision team.
20.       The most substantial institution-building effort under the project
is directed towards improvement of road maintenance and minor betterment of
existing roads in Greece. As noted in paragraph 13 above, the present system is
unsatisfactory in many respects. The Government wishes to develop a program and
organization for improved maintenance for all national and provincial roads in
Greece. It will start, under the project, with the routine maintenance of the
paved national road network (about 8,500 km). At present, MPW does not have an
organization for planning or implementing force account road maintenance, nor
does it have the required equipment. The Government has agreed that MPW will,
as a condition of making the proposed loan effective, establish a maintenance
organization comprising separate maintenance sections in each of its 52 district
engineer's officeg, backing these up with appropriate adjustments to its regional
and central administrations, and appoint the staff initially needed (Loan Agree-
ment Sections 4.03, 5.01, and Schedule 5). Subsequently, the Goverment intends
to expand this new organization, in appropriate phases, to provide effective
and economic maintenance for the entire national and provincial road network
(40,200 km), on the basis of the recommendations of the consultants mentioned
in paragraph 21 below.
21.       The proposed project will provide equipment for the initial phase of
routine maintenance of paved national roads. The Government and the Bank have
agreed on the list of equipment which was chosen to meet the requirements for
1977 derived on the basis of the Epirus pilot study results. The Government
has agreed to maintain its paved roads adequately, and to maintain, repair and
renew its maintenance equipment and workshops as necessary. The project would
also provide technical assistance required to implement the initial phase of
force account maintenance. Specifically, it provides about 170 man-months of
consulting services to IPW to assist it in: (a) deploying and operating the
equipment provided under the project; (b) organizing and implementing main-
tenance of paved national roads by force account; (c) providing proposals for
an effective road maintenance organization within MPW; (d) developing planning
procedures and providing a plan for the efficient maintenance of roads in
Greece, as well as the first three annual progressive five-year programs of



- vii -
priority maintenance and rehabilitation works together covering the years
1977-83; and (e) drawing up a program for the effective development of the
initial organization to enable it to execute this plan, including required
training, operating procedures, and documentation. The consultants will
also study the experience gained through the Epirus pilot maintenance program
and advise on incorporation of its procedures, where applicable, into the
nationwide program. The Government has agreed to consult the Bank with
respect to the consultants' recommendations for adapting its road management
and operations to serve the entire national and provincial networks, and
thereafter to implement those recommendations on which both agree. These
consultants will also assist MPW in organizing and supervising the feasibility
studies described below. The Government has agreed to hire the consultants to
MPW by December 31, 1976, and has already reached an understanding with the
Bank on their terms of reference.
22.       The proposed project includes feasiblity studies of three road
segments totaling 295 km. These have been chosen on the basis of both
priority projects identified in the above noted Ingeroute study (paragraph
10) and the Government's regional development priorities. They also exhibit
unusual complexity, and the Government needs to know the economic and tech-
nical consequences of various alternatives before financing construction from
its own resources. It is expected that Greek consultants will participate
in the studies, with assistance from foreign experts in specific disciplines
to the extent these disciplines are not available locally. The project pro-
vides about 40 man-months for the latter. The consultants mentioned in
paragraph 37 will assist MPW in: (a) preparing detailed terms of reference
for the consultants to carry out the feasibility studies; (b) selecting and
supervising these consultants; and (c) reviewing their recommendations.
23.       The project also provides for about 240 man-months of fellowships
abroad for training MPW senior and middle management in road management and
planning techniques. The Government and the Bank have reached an under-
standing on the number of fellowships, the subjects to be studied, and that
the fellowships will last from five to fifteen months each and be spread over
three years so as not to disrupt MPW's operations. The Government has agreed
to forward a list of candidates and their detailed proposed training programs
to the Bank for approval before awarding the fellowships.
24.       As mentioned earlier (paragraph 4), an ad hoc interdepartmental
working group has been monitoring investment studies in the highway sub-sector
since 1972. The Government has decided to transform this group into a perma-
nent committee responsible for all modes of transport. The committee would
consist of senior officials of each of the Ministries and agencies responsible
for the transport sector; be chaired by one of its members appointed by the
Minister of Coordination and Planning; meet at least once every three months;
and advise the Minister of Coordination and Planning (who is responsible for
the investment budget) on investment priorities in the transport sector and on
transport policies which might require legislative action. A permanent
secretariat under a senior official will be established in MCP to assist the



- viii -
committee; at least four full-time specialists in the technical, economic,
financial and legal aspects of the various transport modes will be appointed
initially to the secretariat. Under the instructions and supervision of the
committee, the secretariat will initiate systematic planning in the transport
sector, including the survey of transport conditions, needs and regulations
and the analysis of transport investments and policies in order to ensure that
they are responsive to the country's economic development requirements and
priorities in the transport sector. The Government and the Bank have agreed
on the above arrangements for the composition and staffing of the committee
and the secretariat and on their objectives. Establishment of both the
committee and the secretariat would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan (Loan Agreement Sections 4.05, 5.01, and Schedule 5).
25.       The project provides about 100 man-months of consulting services to
assist the secretariat, and strengthen its capabilities, during its first two
years of existence in: (a) the review of all recent studies, current policies
and plans of Greece relating to the transport sector, including the relevant
sections of the 1976-1981 five-year development plan; (b) the identification
of the major areas of data insufficiency and preparation of detailed arrange-
ments for the collection of all such data and other relevant information
necessary for the secretariat to carry out its functions; (c) the identifica-
tion and preliminary analysis of principal problem areas in the transport
sector and submission of recommendations for the solution of these problems;
(d) the preliminary technical and economic evaluation of priority programs
and projects in the transport sector; and (e) the formulation of the elements
and procedures of transport sector planning and the detailing of the meas-
ures and information required for initiating such planning. The secretariat
will, as mentioned above, initiate such planning on the basis of this work
and in accordance with its capabilities as strengthened during these first two
years. To this end, the consultants will also provide on-the-job training of
staff of the secretariat, as well as recommend training programs for them in
disciplines within the secretariat's responsibility.
26.       The Government has agreed that the secretariat will evaluate the
capabilities it has developed, and prepare recommendations for such further
action as is necessary for the committee to carry out its functions, by
December 31, 1978; and that after consulting with the Bank, it will put
into effect those recommendations on which both agree (Loan Agreement Sec-
tion 4.05).
Project Cost and Financing
27.       The total estimated cost of the project is US$64.7 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange component of $30 million.



- ix -
US$ Million
Local    Foreign    Total
Construction                                            15.8       8.2       24.0
Supervision of Construction                              0.9         0        0.9
Right-of-Way and Land Acquisition                        2.6          0       2.6
Procurement of Highway Maintenance Equipment             1.4      10.3       11.7
Technical Assistance to MPW                              0.7        1.4       2.1
Feasibility Studies of 3 Selected Roads                  0.5       0.3        0.8
Fellowships for MPW                                        0       0.4        0.4
Technical Assistance to MCP                              0.4       0.8        1.2
Basic Project Cost                                      22.3      21.4       43.7
Physical Contingencies                                   2.3        2.1       4.4
Expected Price Increases                                10.1       6.5       16.6
TOTAL                                                 34.7      30.0       64.7
The cost estimates are based on the assumptions that for road construction work,
local contractors will win the bids, as they have for many years in Greece; MPW
will supervise construction; the maintenance equipment will be imported; con-
sultants providing technical assistance will be internationally selected and
are expected to be foreign, but with Greek nationals on their teams; and con-
sultants to do the feasibility studies will be Greek, supported by foreign
experts in specific disciplines where expertise is not available locally. In
estimating the costs of consulting services, man-month rates of $7,000 for
foreign consultants and $1,500 for Greek consultants were used. Physical con-
tingencies are estimated at 10 percent. Total price contingency allowances
have been estimated at 35 percent (28 percent on foreign costs and 41 percent
on local costs), based on the proposed implementation schedule. Annual price
increases assumed for civil works are 20 percent in 1976, 16 percent in 1977
and 14 percent in each of the following years; 10 percent in 1976 and 8 per-
cent in 1977 for equipment; and 14 percent in 1976, 12 percent in 1977 and
10 percent annually thereafter for consulting services and fellowships. For
civil works, the price contingencies are based on a comprehensive analysis of
trends in road construction costs between 1968 and 1973, prepared by the
Government and the consultants designing the road. For equipment, consulting
services and fellowships, the price contingencies are Bank estimates.
28.       The proposed loan of US$30 million equivalent will finance the for-
eign costs of the project and cover 46 percent of total project costs. The
Government will provide the local cost financing, as well as cover any unfore-
seen cost increases. The loan would be to the Hellenic State for 15 years,
including a four-year grace period.
Project Implementation
29.       Two Government Ministries will be responsible for project implementa-
tion: (a) MCP for transport coordination and planning; and (b) MPW for all
other project items. The Government has agreed to appoint a project coordina-
tor in MPW by September 30, 1976 to ensure coordination among the Government



agencies concerned with the MPW parts of the project. About 310 man-months of
consultant services are provided under the project to assist in the execution
of the various components. Implementation will commence in 1976 and is sched-
uled for completion by June 1980. The schedule for the different components
is as follows: the detailed engineering of the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road has
already been completed by Greek consultants financed by the Government. The
Government has agreed that MPW will acquire the land and right-of-way for the
road as and when needed; this is expected to be done under adequate existing
legislation during 1976 before construction contracts are let. Construction
is expected to begin early 1977 and take three years. The Government has
proposed, and undertaken to introduce before construction starts, satisfactory
arrangements for MPW to supervise construction. Technical assistance to MPW
is scheduled to begin late 1976 and end mid-1979. Technical assistance to MCP
is expected to begin early 1977 and last two years. Maintenance equipment is
expected to be procured during the first half of 1977. The feasibility studies
are expected to be carried out from late 1977 to early 1979. Fellowships for
MPW staff are expected to be spread over the three years starting late 1976.
Procurement
30.       The construction of the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road will be carried
out by contract awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement". Prospective bidders will be
prequalified. The MPW proposes to divide the work into four contracts, each
of which will be for complete road -works over consecutive design sections:
Patras-Lappa, Lappa-Pinios, Pinios-Pyrgos and Pyrgos-Olympia. The contracts
may be bid separately, or in any combination, and are expected to be between
US$3 million and US$10 million equivalent each.
31.       The road maintenance equipment will also be procured after interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Bidders
will not be prequalified, and will compete against minimum specifications
on the basis of cost, delivery time and reliability of subsequent dealer serv-
ice. Local manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15 per-
cent of CIF costs of competing imports or the existing rate of customs duty,
whichever is the lower. Equipment contracts amounting to less than US$25,000
up to an aggregate of US$400,000 will be let under prevailing Government
procurement procedures, which involve advertisement and procurement locally
after competitive bidding and are satisfactory. The consulting services will
be provided by consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms of
reference will be satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursements
32.       Disbursements will be made for:  (a) 34 percent of construction costs,
representing the estimated foreign exchange component; (b) the actual foreign
exchange costs (CIF Greek port) of the road maintenance equipment and spares,
or 100 percent of the ex-factory price of Greek manufacturers in the unlikely
event that they win the bids; and (c) the actual foreign exchange costs of con-
sulting services and fellowships. Disbursements are expected to commence in



- xi -
early 1977 and extend through December 1980. Should any funds remain in the
loan account after project completion, they would be used, after agreement
with the Bank, for the procurement of additional road maintenance equipment,
in accordance with the recommendations of the consultants providing technical
assistance to MPW.
Economic Analysis
33.       The proposed road will meet the growing transport demand in one
of the main agricultural areas in Greece, which includes the area served by
a Government-financed irrigation project presently under implementation. The
section between Patras and Pyrgos will serve as the main highway artery for
traffic between the northern and southern parts of western Peloponnese. Its
continuation from Pyrgos to Olympia will serve as a tourist access road to the
archaeological sites at Olympia. At the same time, the road will bypass 22
villages and towns which are bottlenecks on the existing road.
34.       The main direct benefits from road construction would be savings
in transport costs for highway users. The inhabitants of villages and towns
to be bypassed would obtain indirect benefits from avoidance of traffic noise,
exhaust pollution and accidents. Benefits from road construction have been
quantified as savings in vehicle operating costs from: (i) improved surface
condition of the road sections; (ii) avoided speed reductions through villages
and towns; and (iii) length reduction of the road sections. Of these savings,
60 percent will accrue to goods transport vehicles, 30 percent to public
passenger transport vehicles (buses and taxis), and 10 percent to private
cars. Other benefits not included are time savings of vehicle occupants other
than professional drivers, and the increased safety and comfort for both road
users and the inhabitants of the villages and towns bypassed. Benefits are
assumed to start immediately upon completion of road construction and to in-
crease with traffic. Based on a construction period of 3 years, an economic
life of 20 years and the estimated economic costs of project preparation, con-
struction and supervision, the overall economic return (ER) of road construc-
tion (which will cost $44.2 million) is estimated at 20 percent, with a first-
year return of 15 percent. The ERs of the Patras-Pyrgos and Pyrgos-Olympia
sections are estimated at 21 and 19 percent respectively. A sensitivity
analysis has also been carried out assuming an increase of 15 percent in
construction costs, and a decrease of up to 25 percent in benefits if traffic
growth is slower than presently projected. The results, presented in the Staff
Project Report, show that even under these most pessimistic assumptions, the
construction would yield an ER of 14 percent.
35.       Paved national roads in Greece generally provide considerably less
than their original levels of service. It is reasonable practice to maintain
the surface and drainage of paved roads to within about 85 percent of original
service levels, to prevent loss of benefits due to increasing vehicle operating
costs and an increase in road maintenance costs due to progressive structural
failures. Escalation of costs is considerable if maintenance is reduced below
these levels, and soon justifies the marginal expenditure on maintenance.
Routine maintenance of paved roads lends itself well to force account rather



- xii -
than contract execution. This is because of the difficulties inherent in
effectively controlling and measuring this type of contract work and because
of contractors' profit and the cost of Government supervision. Procurement
of road maintenance and workshop equipment, including spare parts, under the
proposed project will allow MPW to carry out all routine maintenance of paved
national roads by force account instead of by contract by the end of 1977.
MPW estimates the average annual savings from using force account at about Dr.
170 million annually for the entire paved national road network. Based on an
average economic life of six years, which is appropriate for the types of
equipment to be provided, the ER from the equipment purchased (which will
cost $14.2 million) is estimated at 46 percent.
36.       The average economic rate of return on these two components, which
amount for 90 percent of total project cost, is 26 percent. Benefits from the
technical assistance and the feasibility studies are difficult to quantify.
However, these project elements are clearly justified, since they will assist
the Government in deriving substantial economic benefits from improving
highway maintenance, designing roads and improvements to standards justified
by projected traffic growth, making investments based on established economic
priorities, and strengthening planning and operations in the transport sector
as a whole.
Conclusions, Recommendations and Loan Conditions
37.       Greece's transport system has suffered in the past from uncoordi-
nated investment planning. In the highway sub-sector, roads have been often
built to standards in excess of those justified by traffic, while maintenance
has been neglected. The project represents an attempt on the part of the Gov-
erment to change long-established uneconomic practices and is fully consistent
with the Government's priorities and with Bank policies for the transport
sector. However, achievement of the project objectives depends on the Govern-
ment' s implementing the agreed institutional changes in transport planning and
highway maintenance. To ensure that_the project road is built to appropriate
standards, these have been agreed upon and incorporated in the loan documents.
The broad features of the organizational arrangements and of the technical
assistance to be provided have also been agreed, and establishment of the
organizational arrangements constitutes the conditions of effectiveness of the
proposed loan.
38.       Nevertheless, as in all projects, there are risks.  While the Bank
has been given ample evidence during project preparation of the Government's
serious intention of changing its approach to highway investments, the diffi-
culties inherent in implementing any fundamental change of policy should not
be underestimated. Besides the risk of not achieving all the objectives of
the project, there is the risk of delay in project execution, a problem faced
by other Greek projects. The project has, however, been designed to minimize
these risks. It is suitable for Bank financing through a loan to the Hellenic
State for 15 years including 4 years of grace.



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Effects of Geography and Economic Growth on Transport
1.01      Greece covers an area of about 132,000 km2, and consists of a pre-
dominantly mountainous mainland on the southern part of the Balkan Peninsula,
and an archipelago in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea which includes about 170
inhabited islands, accounting for nearly 20% of the total area (Map IBRD 11917).
1.02      Total population is about 9.0 million, with about half living in
urban areas and the remainder scattered in a large number of village communi-
ties. The main centers of population and economic activity are Athens,
Thessaloniki and Patras, which together account for 40% of the country's pop-
ulation and 45% of its manufacturing establishments. The main agricultural
areas are located in Macedonia, Thessaly, Thrace and Western Peloponnese.
1.03      The geography of the country and the large number of village communi-
ties has resulted in road transport and shipping becoming the dominant modes of
transport, while the railway system is limited to serving the most important
population and economic centers.
1.04      Recent economic growth has been rapid:  between 1969 and 1973 real
gross domestic product increased by 9% annually and manufacturing by 13.5% an-
ually. This growth resulted in rapid increases in road transport and shipping,
whereas railway transport increased only moderately, reflecting the less com-
petitive services provided by this mode. Of total present freight ton-km
transported inside the country an estimated 55% is carried by road, 30% by sea,
and 15% by rail, with negligible amounts being carried by air.
B. Transport System
1.05      The transport system of Greece comprises 40,200 km of roads, 2,600
km of railways, 18 main ports and specialized sea terminals, and 30 airports,
of which 9 handle international traffic. Pipelines are insignificant as a
means of transport. The north-south transport corridor connecting Athens and
Thessaloniki, and the east-west transport corridor connecting Athens and Patras
are the main arteries of the transport system. Both corridors are served by
road, coastal shipping, railway and civil aviation. In addition to these
transport corridors the geographical characteristics of the country have re-
sulted in extensive shipping services to meet the demand for transport be-
tween the islands and the mainland.
1.06      Highways are the main mode of transport on the mainland and the
Peloponnese. The need for distribution of goods to numerous village communi-
ties and Government's deliberate policy of stimulating economic development



-2-
and tourism in all parts of Greece has resulted in a highway network, the ex-
tent of which is generally adequate for present transport needs. To economi-
cally serve present and future traffic, however, improvement of a number of
highway sections is required in order to remove capacity restraints due to
topographical features and villages and towns acting as bottlenecks to traffic.
In addition, there is an urgent need for improved maintenance of the entire
highway network.
(a)  Highways
1.07      Details of the highway subsector are discussed in Chapter II.
(b)  Railways
1.08      The Greek railways are operated by the publicly owned Hellenic Rail-
way Organization which is controlled by the Ministry of Transport and Communi-
cations. The system comprises 2,543 km of line of which 1,560 km are standard
gauge, 961 km meter gauge, and 22 km narrow gauge. The standard gauge system
runs from Athens via Thessaloniki to the borders with Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, and
Turkey; the meter gauge system serves mainly the Peloponnese; and the narrow
gauge system provides some branch lines. Traffic in 1973 amounted to 12.7
million passengers and 3.3 million tons of freight. Passenger and freight
traffic on all railway lines during the period 1969-73 is shown below (in
thousands):
Passengers                  Freight
Year                 Number      Pass-Km       Tons         Ton-km
1969                 11,797    1,437,087      2,529         586,889
1970                 12,628    1,530,754       2,953        688,148
1971                 13,257    1,635,104       3,358        748,143
1972                 12,886    1,563,046      3,082         755,649
1973                 12,720    1,614,989      3,291         797,902
Period                         % Average Annual Growth Rate
1969-73                1.9        3.0           6.8            8.0
The principal commodities transported were agricultural products 31%, petro-
leum products and coal 16%, and fertilizer 12%. Average transport distances
are about 125 km for passengers and 245 km for freight. Most traffic takes
place between Athens-Thessaloniki and Athens-Corinth. Track and rolling stock
are old and need to be modernized. Studies carried out in 1971-73 by the French
consultant Sofrerail recommended major improvements of the Athens-Thessaloniki
and Athens-Corinth lines and gradual closure of the meter and narrow gauge
systems, which are uneconomical. Taking these recommendations into account,
the Government recently approved a Dr 10 billion 5-year plan for improving
Greek railways. The plan envisages major improvements to the Athens-
Thessaloniki and Athens-Corinth lines (electrification and track improvements
to permit higher speeds) and purchase of rolling stock and equipment. These
investments are not expected to affect traffic volumes or growth on the project
road.



-3-
1.09      Average tariffs in 1973 were Dr 0.33 per passenger-km and Dr 0.70
per ton-km, which are considerably below average costs of Dr 0.66 per passenger-
km and Dr 1.03 per ton-km and barely cover average marginal costs of Dr 0.38
per passenger-km and Dr 0.66 per ton-km. The Railway Organization is planning
to change its tariffs to cover marginal costs in all cases and full costs
where possible. The operating ratio in 1973 was 1.85 resulting from expendi-
tures of Dr 1,830 million and revenues of only Dr 993 million. The deficit is
covered by the public budget.
(c) Ports and Shipping
1.10      Greece has 10 general cargo ports each handling more than 100,000
tons annually. In addition there are 8 specialized terminals for petroleum
products, coal, bauxite and iron ore. All ports in Greece are controlled by
the Ministry of Merchant Marine. In 1973, 15.5 million passengers embarked
and disembarked in the principal ports of Greece, and total freight handled
amounted to 57.8 million tons. Passenger and freight traffic at all ports
during the period 1969-73 is shown below (in thousands):
Passengers (number)                 Freignt (tons)
Year    Incoming    Outgoing    Total        Loaded    Unloaded      Total
1969      6,190       6,142      12,332      11,054     18,956      30,010
1970      7,040       6,996      14,036     11,555      20,788      32,343
1971      7,378       7,366      14,744     13,493      23,248      36,741
1972      7,772       7,764      15,536     16,208      28,033      44,441
1973      7,767       7,771      15,538     20,696      37,123      57,819
Period                        % Average Annual Growth Rate
1969-73    5.9         6.0        6.0         17.0       18.3        17.8
Coastal and inter-island shipping account for about 96% of passengers and 41%
of freight handled in the principal ports. Annual growth in port traffic
during the period 1969-73 has been about 6% for passengers and 18% for freight.
1.11      The most important general cargo ports are Piraeus and Thessaloniki
which together handled about 6 million passengers and 17 million tons of
freight in 1973. The two ports are operated as public corporations. The
ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki are planning considerable expansions and
acquisitions of goods handling equipment to handle the anticipated traffic
volumes. The investments will be financed out of port revenues with support
from the public investment budget. To reduce the future pressures on these
two ports and to ensure efficient planning on an economic basis in this sub-
sector, and generally to put ports operations on a financially efficient
basis, the Government is planning to carry out a national ports master plan
study, which would also review the possibility and economic advantages of
developing smaller ports in the country.



- 4 -
1.12      Shipping is practically the only means of transport between many of
the islands and the mainland as only few islands have regular air connections.
In 1973 the merchant shipping fleet sailing under Greek flag consisted of about
3,100 vessels, of which a large part is engaged in international transport,
making a major contribution to the balance of payments of the country.. Total
fleet tonnage amounted to 23.4 million GRT. The number and tonnage of the
merchant fleet sailing under Greek flag during the period 1969-73 is shown
below:
Ships (number)                      GRT (thousand)
Year   Total  Freight  Passenger  Other  Total  Freight  Passenger  Other
1969   2,104   1,731      176        197   11,139  10,561      489        89
1970   2,319   1,928      203        188   13,539  12,863      588        87
1971   2,543   2,123      221        199   15,441  14,708      644        89
1972   2,826   2,376      283        167   19,093  18,253      766        74
1973   3,113   2,593      303       217   23,400  22,531       780        90
Period                      % Average Annual Growth Rate
1969-73  10.3   10.6      14.6      2.5    20.2    20.2        12.4      0.3
Of the fleet tonnage, 48% is less than 10 years old while 15% is more than 20
years old. The merchant fleet has improved during recent years due to various
Government incentives, but the fleet still contains a relatively large number
of small and old vessels, which are sensitive to fluctuations in the freight
market.
1.13      There are no restrictive practices between shipping companies en-
gaged in coastal and inter-island trade and there is no general fixed rate
structure. The Ministry of Merchant Marine, however, does issue official
freight rates which are applied to transport of Government freight. These
rates range from Dr 0.15 per ton-km to Dr 0.38 per ton-km depending on total
transport distance and type of cargo. These rates allow the shipping.com-
panies a reasonable profit margin.
(d) Civil Aviation
1.14      The country has 9 international and 21 local airports.  The Civil
Aviation Authority under the Ministry of Transport and Communications is re-
sponsible for the administration of all airports in Greece. Traffic growth
has been rapid. Passenger traffic increased by 20% annually during the last
five years and in 1973 amounted to 9.3 million passengers of which Athens air-
port handled 5.2 million.  Passenger and freight traffic and aircraft movements
at all Greek airports during the period 1969-73 is shown below (in thousands):



- 5-
Passenger Arrivals       Freight and      Aircraft
and Departures             Mail         Movements
Year                   (number)                (tons)        (number)
1969                     4,476                 38.2             .93.1
1970                     5,065                 39.0            102.8
1971                     6,566                 42.1            118.9
1972                     8,105                 50.8            133.5
1973                     9,255                 63.8            143.1
Period                       % Average Annual Growth Rate
1969-73                   20.0                 13.7             11.3
Freight and mail traffic increased by about 14% annually during the last five
years and in 1973 amounted to 64,000 tons of of which Athens airport handled
50,000 tons. The Government is continuously improving and expanding the air-
ports to handle anticipated increases in tourism and domestic air services.
1.15      There is one Greek commercial airline, Olympic Airways, which was
taken over in January 1975 by the Government at the owners request. In 1973
domestic services amounted to 575 million passenger-km and 3.9 million ton-km,
and international services amounted to 3,300 million passenger-km and 54.4
million ton-km.
C. Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
1.16      The Government's economic objectives are incorporated into five-year
development plans, prepared by the Ministry of Coordination and Planning (MCP).
The latest plan covered the period 1968-72 and sought to realize high average
growth in the economy by increasing productivity, particularly in agriculture
and industry. Public investment emphasized agriculture, social services and
infrastructure.
1.17      The long-term policy for the transport sector aimed at the creation
of a transport system, which could meet, at minimum cost, the increased trans-
port demand resulting from the planned growth in the economy. This policy
would be implemented through the establishment of: (i) the necessary road
arteries connecting the large urban centers and industrial areas between them-
selves, and with the surrounding regions and principal agricultural supply
areas of the country; (ii) a provincial road network for the connection of the
vilage communities with the urban centers, which were intended to gradually
provide the necessary social services for the surrounding settlements; and
(iii) more effective connections between Greece and the rest of the world.
In addition, the Government through various taxation measures encourages pub-
lic passenger transport, especially in urbanized areas. Of the total public
investment in the 1968-72 Plan 22% was allocated to transportation, and about
three quarters of these expenditures were for highways. The implementation of
the 1968-72 Plan was quite successful, and most targets were met. Drafting of



-6-
the 1973-77 Plan was delayed due to policy and currency adjustments as well as
political changes. The Government is presently drafting a new five-year plan to
cover the period 1976-81; although its details are not yet available, the plan
is expected to give continued support to public investment in agriculture and
social services, and to stimulate private investment. The new plan is expected
to allocate fewer resources to the transport sector, including highways, thus
necessitating a more careful choice of projects in that sector.
1.18      Planning in the transport sector is carried out by the agencies
responsible for the various modes.  Over the past decade a number of trans-
port projects have been studied by the modal agencies, and feasibility stud-
ies of large or complex projects are increasingly used as a basis for invest-
ment decisions. Minor projects, including highway improvement and maintenance
works, however, are not subject to formalized planning. On the Government's
request, the proposed project will provide technical assistance for the pre-
paration of a five-year highway maintenance and improvement program, including
guidelines for control and annual updating thereof.
1.19      Coordination between agencies concerned with planning of investments
in transport infrastructure is the responsibility of the MCP. For purposes of
monitoring studies of investments in the highway subsector the Ministries of
Coordination and Planning, and Public Works in 1972 established an ad hoc in-
terdepartmental working group. Both the duration and the scope of the working
group was limited, and there is a need for coordination among the various
agencies and modes in the transportation field. The Government now intends to
convert the ad hoc working group into permanent committee for transport coordi-
nation to cover all modes of transport. The committee would be responsible to
the Minister of Coordination and Planning and would closely coordinate with the
National Council of Regional Planning and the Environment, for which legislation
is presently being drafted. For day-to-day support of the committee the Govern-
ment intends to establish, in the MCP, a permanent unit that would functions as
a Secretariat to the Committee. The proposed project will provide technical
assistance to the MCP to establish the modus operandi for the main activities
of the Secretariat, and strengthen its capabilities during the first two years
of its existence (para 3.16).



-7-
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. Network
2.01      The total length of the road network is about 40,200 km of which
8,900 km are classified as National roads and the remaining 31,300 km as
Provincial roads (Map IBRD 11917). Of the National road network, 8,500 km or
95% are paved, and of the Provincial network 9,400 km or 30% are paved. The
length and distribution of the National and Provincial road network in 1975
is shown below (in km):
National Roads          Provincial Roads
Region                 Paved  Unpaved  Total    Paved  Unpaved  Total    Total
East Macedonia and       846      85      931                      2,742    3,673
Thrace
Macedonia              1,371    136    1,507          Break-       3,822    5,329
Epirus                   739      50      789         down         2,868    3,657
Thessaly               1,389      90    1,479          not         4,821    6,300
--Peloponnese            2,273      59    2,332         avail-       8,588   10,920
Attica and Islands    1,090       40    1,130         able         5,155    6,285
Crete                    751       0      751                      3,275    4,026
Total             8,459    460    8,919   9,381   21,890  31,271   40,190
In recent years, the main links of the National road system, that serve as trunk
roads in the Athens-Thessaloniki and Athens-Patras transport corridors, have
been built or reconstructed to high multi-lane standards and are operated as
toll roads; this part of tAe road network comprising about 730 km is in good
condition. The toll roads mostly are paralled by asphalted roads which carry
local traffic; where no parallel roads exist, the toll roads are operated
as an open system, allowing local traffic use free of toll. All long distance
car, bus and truck traffic are using the toll roads. Tolls are intended to
cover costs of administration, maintenance and depreciation of the toll roads,
and are adjusted periodically. The Provincial network is constructed to con-
siderably lower standards and its physical condition, which is often unsatis-
factory, varies from section to section reflecting varying construction stand-
ards, traffic volumes and maintenance efforts. The extent of the road network
is largely adequate for present needs , and no important towns or villages are
without road access.



- 8 -
B.  Traffic
2.02      In 1974 the Greek motor vehicle fleet was about 564,000 vehicles,
virtually all privately owned and operated. Passenger cars made up 67% of the
fleet, trucks 30% and buses 3%. The development of the motor vehicle fleet
during the period 1969-74 is shown below (in thousands):
Year      Cars       Buses       Trucks        Total
1969      195.3      10.2         97.3        302.8
1970      226.9      10.5        107.4        344.8
1971      263.6      11.0        118.3        392.8
1972      302.5      11.5        130.8        444.8
1973      346.7      12.4        150.3        509.5
1974      380.2      13.0        170.8        564.0
Period          % Average Annual Growth Rate
1969-74    14.3       5.0         11.9          13.3
The regional distribution of vehicles is uneven, about 57% of all vehicles
being concentrated in the Athens metropolitan area; the least motorized area
is Macedonia on the borders with Yugoslavia and Albania. The vehicle fleet
is adequate for present demand.
2.03      Over the past decade, vehicle growth has been about 13% annually.
Passenger cars registered the highest growth rate (14%), trucks an inter-
mediate (12%), and buses the lowest (5%). The present average age of cars is
about 4 years, trucks about 5 years, and buses about 10 years. There are no
car manufacturers in Greece but a truck assembly plant is producing about 800
units yearly. Vehicle imports are not restricted, but import duties accord
about 10% preference to vehicles produced in member countries of the European
Economic Community, with which Greece is associated.
2.04      Nation-wide traffic surveys in 1965 and 1972 indicated a traffic
growth rate of 12% annually; this compares well with gasoline and diesel
oil consumption which increased by about 14% annually between 1969 and 1973.
The consumption of oil produts during the period 1969-73 is shown below (in
thousand tons):



-9 -
Diesel Oil         Fuel
Year            Gasoline        Automotive  Total    Oil       Asphalt
1969              497               806      1,703    2,581      146
1970              576               893      1,864    2,628      171
1971              641               991      2,106    3,024      143
1972              789             1,091      2,343    3,866      187
1973              919             1,282      2,703    4,509      264
Period                   % Average Annual Growth Rate
1969-73           16.6             12.3       12.2      15.0     16.0
Based on projections of economic growth, the appraisal mission has estimated
annual traffic growth to be an average 6% over the decade of the 1980's.
2.05      Permitted maximum gross vehicle weight is 38 t, with maximum single
axle loads of 13 t, and tandem axle loads of 18 t. The Government intends to
harmonize its legislation on vehicle axle loads with that presently being con-
sidered by the European Economic Community. Weighing stations on the main
roads control compliance with vehicle weight legislation; overloading does
take place, but is not a problem at present.
2.06      Bus and truck transport is regulated.  Bus routes, schedules and
fares are allocated and fixed by Government; fares are adjusted periodically.
Truck transport requires licensing to operate, but there is no allocation of
specific routes. Small private firms, each owning a few vehicles, operate
most bus and truck operations. A Government-imposed ceiling on truck freight
rates is adjusted periodically.
C. Administration
2.07      The Mlinistry of Public Works (MPW) is responsible for all construc-
tion and maintenance works on the National and Provincial road network; the
MPW organization as of November 1975 is shown on page 10. The Road and Bridge
Design and Road Construction Directorates in the Central Service of Transport
Infrastructure Works of the MPW are responsible for planning and supervision of
design, construction and maintenance. In addition to the central services in
Athens, the MPW comprises seven regional Superintending Engineer's Offices
(SEO), responsible to the Director General of the MPW, each of which operates
from 6 to 11 District Engineer's Offices (DEO). The SEOs are organized in
divisions corresponding to the central services in Athens, and each division is
technically monitored by its counterpart service in headquarters. The DEOs are
organized similarly, each of their divisions reporting directly to its SEO
counterpart division, but their modest size often causes several divisions to be
operated jointly. There is no central equipment pool, but each SEO has a small
pool of equipment for allocation among its DEOs.



GREECE
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
PRESENT ORGANIZATION
LEGEND
1/ SEO: SUPERINTENDING ENGINEER'S OFFICE
2/ DEO: DISTRICT ENGINEER'S OFFICE
A: ADMINISTRATION DIVISION                                                   MINITER OF PUBLIC WORKS
13 SURVEY & LAND REGISTRY DIVISION
C: TRANSPORT DIVISION
D: HYDRAULICS DIVISION
E: HOUSING & TOWN PLANNING DIVISION
F: PROGRAMMING AND CONTROLS DIVISION
YEKE: MAJOR PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTIONS
(INCLUSIVE OF NATIONAL ROADS)                                             SECRETARY GENERAL
DTYN: PUBLIC WORKS MAINTENANCE SERVICES
CSO: CONSTRUCTION SITE OFFICES
HIGHWAY SERVICES IN SHADED BOXES
_ LIAISON RESPONSIBILITIES ON TECHNICAL
AND CONTROL SERVICES 
DIRECTOR GENERAL
I                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I            SPR
F: GENERiAL
6 CENTRAL       A: ADMINISTRATION               B: SURVEY & LAND REGISTRY                                                   D: HYDRAULICS                E: HOUSING & TOWN PLANNING                 SUPEINTENDENCE
SRVICES                                                                                                                                                                                         OF PULIC WRKS
----------  ---- -- --____                                                --- ,___.-- _ ____- - - ------- ---- ---  _ -
DIRECTORATES                           0                          s                            SEO                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEO  SEC
7 REGIONAT ES             ATIKA                        OPONESOS                      DIHESSALY                                   1THRACE                     -          EPIRUS                       CRETE |
DIVISIONS                                                          I                                                                                     
35 REGIONAL    _         TYN                        DTYN DTYN                                                                            DTYN E  DTYN D                                           DTYN
OIVlSIONS ~ ~ ~ ~          ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        #K                                  - E   -EAE
AND 6 YEKE                   E                  AA  S                                                             E                AS   D                        A   B                       A  B   O 
52 DISTRICTS                                                                DEO (9C                     EEO (7                      DEO (6)                    ODO (El                      ODO (41
9 UNITS                                    *                                                                                  1
6CENTRAL                                                                                     PTSADCVLELEcrEICAL AND
DIRECTORATES                                                                                 AROSAVITO                                    MECHANICAL.
7 CENTRAL
ROAD
SECTIONS
Worl,d B..k-15651
March 1976
B 



- 11-
2.08      The present organizational structure was established in 1970, and
represents an effort to decentralize MPW operations, placing responsibility
for planning and supervision of local works with the SEOs. The MPW now
wishes to further decentralize its operations, and it proposes to reorganize
the present seven SEOs into 12 SEOs with corresponding DEOs, each of which
will have separate divisions for road maintenance with sections dealing spe-
cifically with force account maintenance of National roads; the proposed
organization changes are shown on page 12. With a view to facilitate this
reorganization and improve the capabilities of the MPW, the proposed project
will provide technical assistance to the MPW to improve management, planning,
work execution and supervision of maintenance and improvement works on National
and Provincial roads (para 3.12).
2.09      About 400 MPU staff are engaged in road works; of these 60 are in
headquarters and 340 in the regions and districts. Additionally, 200 en-
gineers and 100 technicians and foremen are engaged as permanent road staff.
As work volumes dictate, the MPW supplements its forces by engaging staff on
short-term contracts; such staff presently number about 100. The qualifica-
tions of the MPW staff are adequate.
D. Planning
2.10      Until recently, there was no systematic long-term highway planning.
In 1972, however, a UNDP-financed highway reconnaissance survey carried out by
the French consultants Ingeroute, with the Bank as Executing Agency, provided
a highway master plan for 1973-87. The Government has accepted the master plan
recommendations in principle. The highway component of the proposed project
serves one of the most important rural areas of the country and is the highest
priority project identified in the master plan of a size suitable for inclusion
under the proposed loan.
2.11       Short-term planning of road construction and maintenance is carried
out annually in conjunction with the preparation of the annual MPW budget.
Detailed work plans and budgets for each region are drawn up by the SEOs and
submitted to the MPW for consolidation within the Ministry's budget requests.
The overall budget is established at inter-ministerial level in consultation
with the Ministry of Coordination and Planing and the Ministry of Finance.
2.12      Short-term plans for maintenance, improvement and minor construction
works are usually not based on feasibility studies, but do take into account
annual traffic counts carried out by MPW on the national and provincial high-
way network; these traffic counts are generally satisfactory for purposes of
road maintenance and improvement planning. The Government has recognized that
improvements in maintenance planning are needed and in 1971 commissioned the
Italian consultants Sauti, to prepare, on the basis of technical and economic
studies, a five-year pilot highway rehabilitation and maintenance program for
the Epirus region, including improvements in administration and cost accounting.
This program has now been implemented and experiences gained therefrom will be
used in preparing similar programs in the other regions (para 3.12).



GREECE
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHANGES
Superintending
12 Regional                  Engineer's Office
Directorates                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Central Service
(For each of 12 Regions)
................... .....:
A                                                            0                                EA  B  D                   E
AdmnistatinAdministration                           Survey & Land                                        Hydraulics           Housing & Town
_             _     -        Division               Registry Division                                    Division             Planning Division
Survey & Lendl
52 Districts   DistrictRe isry  iviio
Engin      Higheay sr vices in sh
Administration                              Hydraulics                     Hous~~~~~~~~~~~~~iisng reTownsibiliammi&
Division                                    Division                       Plan~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ecnicaliiso  and controlssrics
World Sarek-15607
March 1 976



- 13-
E. Financing
2.13      Highways works are financed from two sources:
(i)  the public investment budget, which is controlled by the
Ministry of Coordination and Planning and provides funds
for construction and major improvement works on National
roads;
(ii)  the regular budget, which is controlled by the Ministry
of Finance and provides funds for maintenance works on
National and Provincial roads.
Portions of these budgets are channelled through the National Road Fund and
the 52 District Road Funds to provide for the statutory hypothecation of
revenues from road tolls, vehicle registration fees, taxes on fuel and lu-
bricants, and other earmarked duties and taxes.
2.14      Total Government expenditures on roads increased at 13% annually
during 1969-73, but declined slightly in 1974 due to the cutback in overall
Government expenditure. In 1974, road expenditures were about Dr 5.1 billion
(US$145 million equivalent); revenues from road user charges in 1974 amounted
to Dr 15.0 billion (US$430 million equivalent) and were derived from taxes on
vehicle purchase and registration (14%), import duties on vehicles and spares
(12%), annual vehicle taxation (18%), taxes on fuel and lubricants (43%),
public transport tax (10%), and road tolls (3%). Highway revenues and expen-
ditures during the period 1969-74 are shown below (in Dr billion):
Revenues                            1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974
Purchase and Registration Tax       0.9      1.0      1.2     1.4      1.6      2.1
Import Duties on Vehicles
and Spares                        0.8      0.9      1.0     1.2      1.3      1.8
Annual Vehicle Taxation              1.2     1.4      1.5      1.7     2.0      2.7
Fuel and Lubricant Taxation         2.9      3.3      3.6     4.2      5.4      6.4
Public Transport Tax                0.7      0.7      0.8     0.9      1.0      1.5
Road Tolls                          0.2      0.2      0.3     0.3      0.3      0.5
Total                     6.7     7.5      8.4      9.7    11.6    15.0
Expenditures
Administration                      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2      0.3
Construction Works                  2.3      2.8      3.3      3.8     4.4      4.2
Maintenance Works                   0.4      0.4      0.3      0.3     0.6      0.5
Equipment Purchases                 0.04    0.04    0.03    0.03    0.1         0.1
Total                     2.9     3.4      3.8      4.3     5.3      5.1



- 14-
Road user charges represent about 11% of total Government revenue, which is
close to the European average.
F. Engineering
2.15      Design standards classify roads in four main categories with seven
sub-classes; each category has a different design speed. Although complex,
the standards are satisfactory for lower category roads, but excessive for
higher category roads. The project road was designed to modified lower
standards.
2.16      Most major road design is carried out by consultants under the super-
vision of the MPW Road and Bridge Design Directorate. There is an adequate
number of competent engineering consulting firms, and the quality of design
work is generally satisfactory within the standards and guidelines laid down
by the MPW for such work. However, economic design solutions have on occasion
been precluded because the design standards and guidelines are laid down by the
MPW in advance, and because consultants' fees for design work are paid on a per
kilometer basis. Geotechnical investigations are often insufficient, thus
sometimes resulting in design changes during construction. The feasibility
studies, included under the proposed project, will assist in overcoming these
problems (para 3.13).
G. Construction
2.17      The Road Construction Directorate of the MPW is responsible for
road construction works. All construction works are carried out by contract
awarded after competitive bidding. The quality of construction is generally
satisfactory. The Greek contracting industry has adequate capacity for
carrying out all present and foreseeable construction works in the country.
There are no regulations against foreign contractors operating in Greece.
However, as the Greek contracting industry is highly competitive, no foreign
contractors are presently employed on road works in the country.
2.18      Construction supervision is carried out by the SEOs, assisted when-
ever necessary by staff seconded to them by the MPW central services. Consult-
ing firms are not employed for supervision. Quality control appears adequate
and the MPW has a modern laboratory capable of proper supervision testing.
H. Maintenance
2.19      The MPW through its regional and district offices is responsible
for maintenance of the national and provincial road networks. The Ministry's



- 15 -
own forces presently carry out only emergency maintenance such as snow clear-
ing. All other maintenance operations, routine and periodic, are carried out
by contract, awarded after competitive bidding.
2.20      Maintenance is unsatisfactory.  Road maintenance funds have been
allocated erratically in the past and have fluctuated from year to year;
usually they average about 10% of highway expenditures. Outside the National
trunk road network, which is in good condition due to its fairly recent con-
struction and excessive standards, many roads have deteriorated to a degree
where rehabilitation is urgently needed. The MPW equipment and workshops are
inadequate to meet the requirements of even the limited work volumes demanded
from them, staff is not specifically trained in maintenance operations, and
planning is lacking. There is no system of cost control either for force ac-
count or contract works, and contract supervision is inadequate.
2.21      The MPW now intends to carry out all maintenance of National and
Provincial roads by its own forces. Since the MPW at present does not possess
adequate resources of equipment and personnel for force account road maintenance,
it plans to implement force account maintenance on a phased basis, starting with
routine maintenance of the paved National road network. The proposed project
will provide technical assistance to the MPW to help establish a program and
organization for road maintenance, and to advise the MPW on the initial force
account organization for and implementation of routine maintenance on paved
National roads (para 3.12).
I. Training
2.22      A small MPW Training Sub-Section in the Works Programming Section
organizes short-term seminars in administration and project supervision. The
seminars are of a general nature and there are no programs specifically de-
signed for training staff to fill particular positions. The Training Sec-
tion also administers fellowships offered to the MPW by the Government and
foreign institutions. The proposed project will provide technical assistance
to MPW to identify specific training programs for highway staff and recommend
methods for their implementation. In addition, the proposed project includes
fellowships to senior and middle management staff of the MPW in management and
planning techniques (para 3.15).



- 16 -
III.  THE PROJECT
A.  Objectives
3.01      Bank Group strategy in the Greek transport sector is to encourage
transport planning and coordination for the whole transport sector as well as
institutional and operational improvements in the highway subsector. In sup-
port of this strategy, the project will assist in:
(i) establishing overall transport planning and coordination;
(ii) establishing a five-year prcgram for road maintenance and
improvement;
(iii) establishing and operating an effective force account road
maintenance and improvement organization;
(iv) training Greek nationals in highway management and operations;
and
(v) supervising feasibility studies of highway projects.
In addition, the project will assist in financing the construction of a high
priority road section identified by the UNDP-financed highway reconnaissance
survey and feasibility studies.
3.02     Although possibilities of a Bank financed highway project in Greece
were first discussed in December 1964, it was not until 1971, that the Gov-
ernment started the studies, which form the basis for the present project. In
1971 the Government employed the Italian consultants Sauti to carry out a two-
year maintenance study, financed and supervised by Government with advisory
assistance from the Bank. The maintenance study resulted in the establishment
of a pilot maintenance operation in the Epirus Region; this operation revealed
the need for improved planning of road maintenance as well as the advantages
of maintenance by force account instead of by contract. The proposed project
includes equipment and technical assistance to establish a force account
road maintenance operation, initially for paved national roads.
3.03      To complement the Sauti study, and with a view to establishing a ra-
tional basis for investment decisions in the highway sector, the Government in
1972, requested the UNDP to finance a highway reconnaissance survey and feasi-
bility studies of high priority highway projects (para 2.10). The survey and
studies, carried out by the French consultants Ingeroute, showed that the road
most urgently in need of improvement is the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road included
in the proposed project, and that its reconstruction was the most economic
solution (paro 4.09). The survey also showed an urgent need for improved
transport sector coordination, for which technical assistance is also included
under the project.



- 17 -
B. Description
(a) General
3.04      The project consists of:
(i) construction, and related supervision, of the Patras-Pyrgos-
Olympia road;
(ii) purchase of highway maintenance and workshop equipment and
spare parts for routine maintenance of paved National roads;
(iii)  technical assistance (including about 170 man-months of foreign
experts' costs) to the MPW for implementing improved highway
maintenance and planning procedures, and coordination of feasi-
bility studies;
(iv) feasibility studies (including about 40 man-months of foreign
experts' costs) of selected road projects;
(v) fellowships (about 240 man-months of foreign costs) for senior
and middle management staff of the MPW; and
(vi) technical assistance (including about 100 man-months of foreign
experts' costs) to the MCP for the establishment of the modus
operandi and initial activities of the Secretariat to a transport
coordinating committee.
(b) Road Construction and Supervision
3.05      Construction of the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road will provide a 100 km
improved link in the main road network of Western Peloponnese (Map IBRD 12023).
The proposed road generally follows the corridor of an existing two-lane road,
which has a poor riding surface and carries both agricultural traffic and gen-
eral traffic from villages and urban ribbon development through which it
passes. When the proposed project road is opened to traffic, the existing road
will continue to serve local traffic and provide access to the new facility.
3.06      A feasibility study for the project road was prepared in 1973 by the
French consultants Ingeroute. The proposed project road was selected, together
with three other roads, from the Highway Master Plan. Of the four roads, the
Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road was found to most urgently require improvement due to
anticipated increases in traffic (para 4.07). Detailed engineering, which was
substantially completed at appraisal, has now been completed by a group of Greek
consultants, financed by the Government. Details of the design standards, which
are satisfactory, are shown below:



- 18 -
Terrain
Patras-Pyrgos Section                             Flat                 Rolling
Design Speed (km/h)                                   80                  80
Lane Width (m)                                         3.75                3.75
Lanes (No)                                             2                   2
Paved Shoulder Width (m)                               2.00                2.00
Unpaved Shoulder Width (m)  (Guard railed              1.25                1.25
(Fills  <2.5 m          0.50                 0.50
Minimum Horizontal Radius (m)                        250                 250
Maximum Gradient (%)                                   5                   6
Minimum Sight Distance (m)                           110                 110
Equivalent Single Axle Loading (tons)                           8.0
Minimum Right-of-way Acquisition Width (m)                     30
Development Line Restriction Width (m)                         60
Pavement Type                                       Asphalt wearing course and base,
crushed stone lower base and
sub-base
Structures:  Carriageway Width (m)                             12.50
Sidewalk Width (m)                                0.75
Loading Standard                             Cl 60 (DIN 1072)
Pyrgos-Olympia Section
Design Speed (km/h)                                    -                  70
Lane Width (m)                                         _                   3.50
Lanes (No)                                             -                   2
Unpaved Shoulder Width (m)  (Guard railed             -                    1.75
(Fills  K2.5 m          -                    1.00
Minimum Horizontal Radius (m)                          -                 200
Maximum Gradient (%)                                   -                   6
Minimum Sight Distance (m)                             -                  90
Passing Sight Distance (m)                             -                 450
Equivalent Single Axle Loading (tons)                 -         8.0
MIinimum Right-of-way Acquisition Width (m)            -       30
Development Line Restriction (m)                               60
Pavement Type                                       Asphalt wearing course and base,
crushed stone lower base and
sub-base
Structures:  Carriage Width (m)                       -         9.50
Sidewalk Width (m)                                0.75
Loading Standard                         -   Cl 60 (DIN 1072)
During negotiations, the Government and the Bank agreed the design standards
for the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road.



- 19 -
3.07      From its departure point on the existing main road south of Patras
the new road passes through a coastal plain for 85 km bypassing the town of
Amalias. It joins the existing road just west of Pyrgos and recommences
just east of Pyrgos entering hilly country for 15 km, whence it continues to
join the existing main road just west of Olympia. The coastal plain is
intensely cultivated. Seasonal agricultural traffic uses the road as well as
normal local traffic and through traffic between Patras-Amalias-Pyrgos-Olympia
and points beyond.
3.08      The road will be constructed as a two-lane carriageway, eliminating
eight railway crossings at grade and replacing six unsatisfactory river cross-
ings. The design standards, which relate to the traffic demand, generally al-
low for a 80 km/h design speed with a 7.5 m wide pavement from Patras to
Pyrgos, and a 7 m wide pavement from Pyrgos to Olympia. Surface dressed shoul-
ders on the Patras-Pyrgos section will provide a riding surface for slow mov-
ing agricultural traffic. The new road diverges from the existing road over
65% of its length, mainly to bypass village communities and towns.
3.09      Construction supervision will be carried out by  a regular MPW con-
tract construction supervision team. During negotiations, the Government
proposed and gave assurances that it will make construction supervision ar-
rangements, satisfactory to the Bank, prior to the start of road construction.
(c) Highway Maintenance and Workshop Equipment and Spare Parts
3.10      At present the MPW has almost no equipment for maintenance as
hitherto this work has been done by contract. The MPW now proposes to carry
out all maintenance on National and Provincial roads by force account on a
phased basis, starting, as Phase I, with routine maintenance on paved national
roads. The MPW has requested finance under the proposed project for procure-
ment of equipment therefor. The type and number of highway maintenance of
equipment included under the project is shown below:
Item                                                              Number
Road Patching Trucks with Equipment (100 hp)                                   33
Dump Trucks (6 ton)                                                           100
Graders (100 hp)                                                               22
Wheeled Tractor Loaders with Backhoe (50 hp)                                   60
Vibrating Hand Compactors (5 hp with 1600 cm2 plate)                           38
Vibrating Tandem Rollers (0.6 m width 3000 cyc/min 5 hp)                       38
Snow Removers (800 ton/h 2.1 m band width turbine blowers)                      8
Snow Removers (1800 ton/h 2.9 m band width turbine blowers)                    10
Drawn Grass Mowers (1.22 m rotary)                                             22
Self-propelled Roadline Markers (150 hp 2 strip cold paint applicators)   12
Self-propelled Road Sweepers (100 hp 1.5 m width)                              12
Double Cab Pick-up Vehicles (60 hp)                                            70
Workshop Pick-up Vehicles (100 hp with mobile workshop)                        12
Compressors (50 hp, 4000 1/min)                                                20
Ladder Platform Trucks for overhead lighting (16 m elevation)                  10



- 20 -
The highway maintenance and workshop equipment and associated spares to be
procured under the proposed project have been identified on the basis of
routine road maintenance requirements in 1977 on paved national roads derived
from the Epirus pilot road maintenance operation (para 3.02), and will be used
for the routine maintenance of paved National roads totalling 8,459 km.
Routine maintenance for this purpose is defined as reinstatement works on
patching, shoulders, side slopes to cuts and fills and drains; clearance of
drains, culverts and structures; repair to structures and culverts, road mark-
ings, signs, markers and safety devices; control of vegetation, erosion and
silting; intersection and street lighting; and emergency action on snow clear-
ance, landslides and flooding.
3.11      During negotiations, the Bank and the Government agreed the schedule
of equipment, and assurances were obtained from the Government that it will
make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for: (i) the maintenance
and repair of all paved National roads in accordance with appropriate estab-
lished engineering practices; (ii) the maintenance, repair, replacement and
renewal of its road maintenance equipment; (iii) as a condition of loan effec-
tiveness, the establishment of an organization within MPW to carry out the
routine maintenance of paved National roads, the appointment of an initial
agreed list of 34 maintenance personnel and the designation of an appropriate
Director of the MPW; and (iv) the provision of the necessary funds, personnel
(at least 666 staff personnel and laborers as required) and other resources for
this purpose.
(d) Technical Assistance to Ministry of Public Works
3.12      At present the MPW has no organization for planning and implementation
of road maintenance which has hitherto been carried out by contract. The MPW
now proposes to eventually carry out all maintenance and minor improvement works
by force account, and the proposed project will provide for technical assistance
to establish the necessary organization therefor. The technical assistance would
be provided by consultants to the MPW and would:
(i) advise the MPW on the deployment and operation of the high-
way maintenance equipment procured under this loan, and on
the initial force account organization and implementation
of routine maintenance of paved National roads;
(ii)  provide a plan for the efficient maintenance of all National
and Provincial roads in Greece and three annual progressive
five-year programs of highway improvement and maintenance
works;
(iii) provide proposals for an effective road maintenance organ-
ization within the MPW to update and execute maintenance
proposals;
(iv)  provide a program for developing such a road maintenance
organization, including training requirements, and assist in
initiating it by drawing up standard documentation and pro-
cedural statements; and



- 21 -
(v) assist the MPW in preparing terms of reference for consultants to
carry out specific feasibility studies, and subsequently ia the
selection, coordination and supervision of the consultants (para
3.14).
3.13      The technical assistance will include a study of the applicability to
the rest of Greece of the experiences gained from the pilot maintenance program
in the Epirus region (para 2.12) and subsequently make proposals for the incor-
poration, where applicable, of the Epirus procedures into the nationwide pro-
grams. In addition, the technical assistance would propose planning proced-
ures for five-year maintenance programs, and provide assistance to the MPW in
organizing, supervising and evaluating road feasibility studies. During nego-
tiations the Government and the Bank reached understanding on detailed Terms of
Reference for this technical assistance, as shown in the Attachment to this
chapter, and assurances were obtained from the Government that it will implement
any such recommendations of the MPW technical assistance consultants as the Bank
and the Government may agree.
(e) Feasibility Studies
3.14      The MPW has selected for technical and economic feasibility studies
projects which are more complex than usual and where the Government needs to
know the consequences of various highway design and alignment alternatives,
before providing for the financing of their construction from its own resources.
It is expected that Greek consultants would participate in the studies, which
would be supervised by the MPW with the help of their technical assistance
consultants (para 3.12). Where Greek consultants are selected, it is envisaged
that they will employ foreign experts in specific disciplines, where expertise
is not available locally. The feasibility studies to be financed under the
proposed project are:
(i) an improved highway connection between Corinth and Kalamata via
Tripolis;
(ii) the Cambos Despoti-Metsovon-Votonosi section of the national
highway from Kozani to Ioannina; and
(iii) feeder roads linking villages in the Klidi agricultural area
near Alexandria to the national road network.
The feasibility studies were selected, partly on the basis of priority proj-
ects identified in the UNDP-financed highway reconnaissance survey (para 2.10)
(items (i) and (ii) above), and partly on the basis of Government's regional
development priorities (item (iii) above).
(f) Fellowships for Ministry of Public Works
3.15      The MPW intends to offer fellowships to its officials in senior and
middle management positions so that they may contribute more effectively to
modernizing the structure and operations of the highway organization of the
MPW. The fellowships will be in highway organisation, maintenance planning



- 22 -
and design; feasibility studies; traffic and environmental engineering; equip-
ment operation, and highway management and administration. The fellowships
will be by attachment to highway authorities and specialized agencies abroad
for periods of 5 to 15 months and extend over about three years so as not to
disrupt the operation of the highway departments of the MPW. During negotia-
tions the Government and the Bank agreed on the total man-months to be provided,
and reached understanding on the fellowship subjects to be studied, lengths of
training, and the types of training institutions. The Government gave assuran-
ces that it will forward to the Bank, for its approval, a list of candidates
and a schedule of their fellowship programs.
(g) Technical Assistance to Ministry of Coordination and Planning
3.16      The MCP intends to establish a Transport Coordinating Committee
(TCC), headed by a Chairman appointed by the Minister of Coordination and
Planning and consisting of senior representatives of the various Ministries
and agencies concerned with the transport sector, inter alia: Coordination
and Planning, Public Works, Merchant Marine, Transport and Communications,
Civil Aviation Authority, Ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki, and Railways.
The TCC will advise the Minister of Coordination and Planning on investment
priorities within the transport sector and rational transport policies for
legislative action. With a view to this, the TCC will initiative systematic
planning in the transport sector and will carry out continuous surveys of
transport conditions, needs and regulations to ensure that the transport in-
vestments and policies proposed are responsive to the needs of Greece. In
its work the TCC will be assisted by a permanent unit in the MCP, which will
act as a Secretariat to the TCC and which will consist of specialists in the
technical, economic, financial and legal aspects of the various transport
modes. During negotiations the Government agreed to promptly provide the
initial staffing to the Secretariat, which would comprise the head of the
Secretariat who will be a senior official expected to have considerable ex-
perience in public administration as well as in economic and financial plan-
ning and control within the transport sector, assisted by at least four full-
time specialists in the technical, economic, financial and legal aspects of
the various transport modes. At Government's request the proposed project
will pro-vide consulting services to the MCP to assist the Secretariat and
strengthen its capabilities during its first two years in:
(i) the review of all recent studies, current policies and
plans of Greece relating to the transport sector, including
the relevant sections of the 1976-1981 five-year development
plan;
(ii)  the identification of the major areas of data insufficiency
and preparation of detailed arrangements for the collection
of all such data and other relevant information deemed neces-
sary for the Secretariat to carry out its functions;
(iii)  the identification and preliminary analysis of principal
problem areas in the transport sector and submission of
recommendations for the solution of these problems;



- 23 -
(iv) the preliminary technical and economic evaluation of priority
programs and projects in the transport sector; and
(v) the formulation of the elements and procedures of transport
sector planning and the detailing of the measures and informa-
tion required for initiating such planning.
The consulting services will also provide on-the-job training of staff of the
Secretariat as well as recommend on training programs for staff of the Secre-
tariat in disciplines within its responsibility.
3.17      During negotiations, the Government and the Bank agreed on the objec-
tives for the technical assistance to MCP, and the Government gave assurances,
that it will:
(i) as a condition of loan effectiveness establish the TCC, and
its Secretariat within the Ministry of Coordination and
Planning;
(ii) cause the Secretariat, under the instructions and supervision
of the TCC, to initiate systematic planning in the transport
sector;
(iii)  make adequate arrangements for the timely provision of
funds and other resources required from time to time for
the TCC and its Secretariat to adequately carry out their
duties;
(iv) require the Secretariat to evaluate, by December 31, 1978,
the capabilities it has developed and to prepare recommenda-
tions for further actions necessary for the TCC to carry out
its functions; and
(v) implement any such recommendations of the Secretariat as the
Government and the Bank may agree.
C. Engineering
3.18      Engineering on the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road was contracted by the
MPW to a consortium of Greek consulting firms on June 15, 1974. Detailed
engineering was substantially completed by early December 1975, and final
draft bidding documents were completed by the end of February 1976.



- 24 -
D. Cost Estimates
3.19         The  total cost of the project  is estimated at US$64.7 million equiva-
lent including contingencies and right-of-way acquisition. The foreign ex-
change component is estimated at US$30 million or about 46%. Details of the
project costs are shown below:
Dr Hillion           US$ million          x Foreign x Price
Project Elements           Local Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total    Exchange Increase
A. Construction of Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia   553   287    840    15.8    8.2   24.0       34      50
Road
Right-of-Way Acquisition             91     0      91     2.6      0       2.6       0       9
B. Construction Supervision             32   _ 0       32    0.9       0      0.9        0      50
Subtotal                        676   287      963    19.3    8.2     27.5       29      46
C. Highway Maintenance and Workshop     49   361      410     1.4   10.3     11.7       88      10
Equipment and Spare Parts
D. Technical Assistance to Ministry     25    49       74    0.7    1.4       2.1       67      28
of Public Works and Coordination of
Feasibility Studies
E. Feasibility Studies                   18    10      28    0.5    0.3       0.8       38      28
F. Fellowships for Ministry of            0    14      14       0    0.4      0.4      100      28
Public Works
G. Technical Assistance to Ministry of  14    28       42     0.4    0.8      1.2       67      28
Coordination and Planning
Base Cost Estimate              782   749   1,531    22.3   21.4      43.7       49      35
H. Physical Contingencies, A-G (10%)    78    75    153       2.3    2.1      4.4       49      35
I. Expected Price Increases, A-H (28%  355   226      581    10.1    6.5     16.6       39
Foreign; 41% Local)
Total Expected Cost of Project    1.215 1,050   2,265    34.7   30.0  64.7       46
During negotiations  the Government and the Bank together decided upon the cost
estimates.
3.20         Construction costs shown for the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road have
been estimated on the basis of unit rates and quantities from completed de-
tailed engineering and includes estimated US$3.6 million equivalent in taxes
paid by the project. The foreign exchange component of construction was es-
timated at 34%, on the assumption that construction will be carried out by
Greek contractors (para 3.37).
3.21         The cost of construction supervision has been estimated on the basis
of total man-month costs to the Government of their own supervision through
regional offices together with the costs of equipment, transport, offices and
accommodation, and other administrative items. It has been estimated that
there is no foreign exchange component of construction supervision.



- 25 -
3.22      Costs for the road maintenance and workshop equipment, including
spares to an overall value of 15% of the equipment cost, were based on MPW
estimates using CIF prices of end 1975, including local preparation and
delivery, but excluding import taxes. The foreign exchange component has
been estimated by the MPW at 88%. During negotiations the Government con-
firmed that customs and taxes are not levied on equipment imported for Gov-
ernment use nor on similar ex-Greek factory supplies.
3.23      Total costs of the consulting services for all technical assis-
tance have been estimated on the basis of recent costs of similar services
in Greece. The foreign exchange component of the consulting services has
been estimated at 67% on the assumption that these services will be carried
out by foreign consultants with support from local firms. Average man-month
rates used for estimating the total costs of the consulting services are
US$7,000 for foreign consultants and US$1,500 for local consultants.
3.24      Total costs of the consulting services for feasibility studies have
been estimated on the basis of recent costs of similar services in Greece.
The foreign exchange component of the consulting services has been estimated
at 38% on the assumption that these services will be carried out by Greek
consultants with the assistance of foreign experts in specific disciplines
where expertise is not available locally. Average man-month rates used for
estimating the total costs of the consulting services are US$7,000 for
foreign consultants and US$1,500 for local consultants.
3.25      The costs of fellowships to MPW have been based on the total for-
eign exchange man-month costs to the Government of the participants, in-
cluding travel, subsistence, and other charges abroad. The average man-month
rate used for estimating these costs is US$1,600. The foreign exchange
component for the fellowships has been estimated at 100%.
3.26      Physical contingencies for all items in the proposed project are
estimated at 10%. Contingency allowances for price escalation was estimated
overall at 35% (28% foreign 41% local) for all project items on the basis of
the implementatin schedule (para 3.36) and the following annual rates of in-
crease: for civil works, based on a weighted average of local and foreign
costs, 20% in 1976, 16% in 1977 and 14% in each of the years 1978-80; for
equipment, 10% in 1976, 8% in 1977; and for consultancy services and fellow-
ships, 14% in 1976, 12% in 1977 and 10% in each of the years 1978 and 1979.
For civil works, the price contingencies are based on a comprehensive analysis
of road construction rates between 1968-73, prepared by the Government and the
engineering consultants designing the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road. For equip-
ment and consultancy services, the price contingencies are Bank estimates.



- 26 -
E. Financing
3.27      The foreign exchange component of the project is estimated at US$30
million equivalent, and it is proposed that the Bank loan finance US$30 mil-
lion equivalent of foreign costs. Any excess foreign costs over this amount,
and all local costs, estimated at US$34.7 million, equivalent including US$2.6
million equivalent for right-of way acquisition, and US$0.9 million equivalent
for construction supervision, will be met from Government budgetary allocations.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that it will
provide the local cost financing and the foreign cost financing not covered by
the proposed loan, if required, and finance any project costs in excess of
present estimates. The loan would be for 15 years, including a 4-year grace
period.
F. Implementation
(a) Responsibility for Project Implementation
3.28      Implementation of the project elements will be the responsibility
of two Government authorities:
(i) the MPW for construction of the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road,
procurement of maintenance equipment, technical assistance
on road maintenance, technical assistance for organizing,
supervising, and evaluating feasibility studies, and fel-
lowships; and
(ii) the MCP for technical assistance on transport coordination.
During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it would appoint a
Project Coordinator in the MPW not later than September 30, 1976 who inter alia
will ensure coordination between the agencies concerned with those parts of
the project being carried out under the responsibility of the MPW.
(b) Right-of-Way
3.29      Acquisition of right-of-way will be done by MPW during 1976 before
construction contracts are let. Existing legislation is adequate for this
acquisition. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Gov-
ernment that it will make satisfactory arrangements for acquisition of the
right-of-way of the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road.
(c) Project Implementation Schedule
3.30      Construction, and related supervision, of the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia
road is expected to be implemented over a period of about three years, beginning
early 1977 and ending early 1980, with 20% of works carried out in 1977, 35% in
1978, 40% in 1979, and 5% in 1980. Right-of-way acquisition is expected to take
place during 1976.



- 27 -
3.31      Procurement of road maintenance equipment is expected to take place
over a period of a about six months, during the first half of 1977.
3.32      Technical assistance for the preparation of a highway maintenance
program and proposals for an improved highway maintenance organization as well
as phase I implementation thereof is expected to be implemented over a period
of about three years, beginning late 1976 and ending mid 1979. Technical as-
sistance for organizing, supervising, and evaluating feasibility studies is
expected to be implemented over a period of about two years, beginning early
1977 and ending early 1979.
3.33      Feasibility studies on selected road projects are expected to be
implemented over a period of about fifteen months, beginning late 1977 and
ending early 1979.
3.34      Fellowships for HPW staff are expected to be implemented over
a period of about three years, beginning late 1976 and ending late 1979.
3.35      Technical assistance for transport coordination is expected to be
implemented over a period of two years, beginning late 1976 and ending late
1977.
3.36      The implementation schedule for the major activities of each proj-
ect element is shown on page 28. During negotiations the Government and the
Bank together decided upon the-project implementation schedule.
(d) Procurement
3.37      The construction of the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road will be carried
out by contract awarded through international competitive bidding in accordan-
ce with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement". Bidding documents will in-
clude an appropriate price adjustment clause. Prospective bidders will be
prequalified. The MPW proposes to divide the work into four contracts each
of which will be for complete road works over consecutive design sections:
Patras-Lappa, Lappa-Pinios, Pinios-Pyrgos and Pyrgos-Olympia. The contracts
may be bid separately or in any combination and will be between US$3 million
and US$10 million equivalent each. It is expected that local contractors will
be competitive for all works.
3.38     The road maintenance equipment will be procured after international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procure-
ment." Bidders will not be prequalified, and will compete against minimum
specifications on the basis of cost, delivery time and reliability of subse-
quent dealer service. Domestic preferences in bid evaluation will be applied
in accordance with current Bank policies. Equipment orders amounting to less
than US$25,000 up to an aggregate of US$400,000 would be advertised and pro-
cured locally after competitive bidding in accordance with the procurement
procedures of the Government. Spares may be procured under separate contracts
from the manufacturers equipment to which they relate.



GREECE
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ITEM  CTIVIY                        ACTON7B                    197r6                                                        1977                                  1978                                  1979
1. Bank Loan          1.01  Sigeing Loan Agreement             Govt./Bank 
Olymoias   Dtail  2.02  Fils EngineTeing                    Govt.tCon.I
1 Ecnical.       10.03  PtEalwtion Tem DaocReferenc        Goutn/Bank
iConstranct        1.02  Ptequalification o Proposal        CotultaI
toasM.Cpp         1.02 PFo lpetion of Aiwd,                 Contuactons
10.04  Execution&Aw.,d                    Goot/CBnsnk
Contract~     1 4   Ad str icatio.n -                  Gov - -                 _,                                                            I F lt                        36 moth    I I tt                                                      I I Ittt|    t=1        tC tF Xft X F  t
W vC-onsOlvmpfian   64 01  PEvalufation  &Awr                 G-v /Cntaco                                       i- IF,            ~     0 |[||||24mnh                                                                110!{               [     :     [     |      |[[r
Stdinesance       1 02  Preparation of rids                 Covtrltankt
11.03   Eealuation & Award                Gout/Bnk 8 Consultant/Bank
______~~~~aD C08 Review                                      GovtfConsLter--L.Aj-~~|- or11   l 71 13i n_                                                                                 T                        T  liTT LITTT 4-Sj;
-----1    .01 Prequalifiation Trso eoec    Govt./Bn                                            ilL_.Xe5                              tee+T l                                        1                  1                :          
Pisn e zPygos     11.042Execation of Studs                  C onstans
031 1. 5      in  Reviece                 Govt/No. BaCon lsnt/an+
Studies      11 03  Evaluation & Av.ard                Consutants k                                                                                                                                                                                                       Co           l       1    ats]ll                    
Match 1976                          t      Award, Signature and Effeotion   Dates
m m ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~oldBn-  54R



- 29 -
3.39      The consulting services will be carried out by qualified and exper-
ienced consultants and according to Terms of Reference both satisfactory to
the Bank. Consultants would be employed in accordance with the Bank's guide-
lines on "Uses of Consultants by the World Bank and its Borrowers."
G. Disbursements
3.40      Disbursements will be made for 34% of construction to cover the
estimated foreign exchange cost of construction; the actual foreign exchange
costs (CIF Greek port) for road maintenance equipment and spares; the actual
expenditures ex-Greek factory for locally provided road maintenance equip-
ment and spares; and the actual foreign exchange costs of consulting services
and fellowships. Based on these participations and on the project implementa-
tion schedule, an estimated disbursement schedule has been drawn up as shown
below:
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                           at end of Quarter
and End of Quarter                         US$ '000 Equivalent
1976/77
March 31, 1977                                 500
June 30, 1977                                1,200
1977/78
September 30, 1977                          10,000
December 31, 1977                           12,000
March 31, 1978                              14,000
June 30, 1978                               16,000
1978/79
September 30, 1978                          18,000
December 31, 1978                           20,000
March 31, 1979                              22,000
June 30, 1979                               23,250
1979/80
September 30, 1979                          24,500
December 31, 1979                           25,750
March 31, 1980                              27,000
June 30,1980                                28,250
1980/81
September 30, 1980                          29,500
December 31, 1980                           30,000



- 30 -
Should any funds remain in the loan account after project completion,
such undisbursed funds would be used for the procurement of justified addi-
tional road maintenance equipment in accordance with approved recommendations
of the consultants providing technical assistance to the MPW since this would
constitute an element of the second stage of force account maintenance of
roads. During negotiations the Government and the Bank together decided upon
the disbursement schedule.
H. Environmental and Urban Aspects
3.41      Construction design takes due recognition of minimizing agricultural
land use for construction and will include soil erosion control. The existing
road will continue to be used by traffic for access to and from villages from
which through traffic will be diverted along the new alignment on village and
town bypasses. These bypasses will result in improvement in urban environments
brought about by reduced noise and exhaust pollution, and by increased safety
for local road users, especially pedestrians, cyclists and animal drawn carts.
3.42      The project road serves the two biggest population and economic
centers in the region: Patras and Pyrgos. Most regional and long distance
traffic presently have origins and destination in these towns; this pattern
is not expected to be affected by construction of the project road.



- 31 -
ATTACHMENT
GREECE
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR ROAD MAINTENANCE AND PLANNING
Terms of Reference
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Greece is desirous of employing consultants
for the purpose of advising and assisting the Ministry of Public Works to
improve their planning and organization of road maintenance on National and
Provincial roads. In addition, they have requested assistance in controlling
the execution of specific feasibility studies. This assistance will be ac-
complished through the provision of a technical assistance team by Consultants
for about two to two and a half years. It is anticipated that the team will
work on planning, organization and implementation procedures.
II. OBJECTIVES
2.        The Government has decided to implement improved maintenance and
planning procedures on roads. The objectives of this technical assistance are
to:
(a) advise the Ministry of Public Works on the deployment and
operation of highway maintenance equipment for routine
maintenance of paved National roads, and on the initial
force account organization and implementation of routine
maintenance of paved National roads,
(b) provide a plan for the efficient maintenance of all National
and Provincial roads in Greece, including five-year programs
for rehabilitation and maintenance works;
(c) provide proposals for an effective road maintenance organ-
ization within the Ministry of Public Works to update and
execute maintenance proposals;
(d) provide a program for implementing such a road maintenance
organization, including training requirements, and to as-
sist in initiating it by drawing up standard documentation
and procedural statements; and



- 32 -
ATTACHMENT
(e) assist the Ministry of Public Works in preparing terms of reference
for consultants to carry out specific feasibility studies, and sub-
sequently in the selection and supervision of the Consultants.
III. SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
A. General
3.        To attain the objectives set forth in Part II above the Consultants
will assign a team of experts who will be responsible for carrying out the
work programs described in Part III of these Terms of Reference. The scope of
these programs is divided into four main parts: (i) planning, (ii) organiza-
tion, (iii) Stage I implementation, and (iv) coordination of feasibility
studies . The first two parts will run concurrently, and will be called
Phase I, and the third, to be called Phase II, will be carried out after re-
view by the Government of the planning and organizational proposals of Phase
I. The fourth part will operate separately from the other three and will be
initiated upon the inception of the services.
4.        The Consultants shall perform all engineering, economic, financial,
administrative, management and training analyses, investigations, evaluations,
supervision and services that are necessary to attain the objectives of Part
II of these Terms of Reference. In the conduct of this work, the Consultants
will cooperate fully with the Government which is to provide the data, serv-
ices and facilities outlined in Part IV of these Terms; the Consultants will
be solely responsible, however, for the analyses and interpretation of all
data and for the findings, conclusions and recommendations contained in their
reports. The Project Manager of the Consultants will be responsible for the
execution of the work program by his staff and for liaison with the Ministry
of Public Works and other Ministries, in particular the Ministry of Coordina-
tion and Planning regarding overall transport sector requirements as they
affect road transport. All reports, specifications, manuals, instructions
and the documents to be prepared by the Consultants and all correspondence
relating to the services, will be in English text and the metric system will
be used.
B. Phase I: Planning Sub-phase
The scope of the planning sub-phase will be:
(a) The Highway Inventory
5.        Assist the MPW in the preparation of a highway inventory such as to
enable economic and technical analyses to be carried out for road maintenance
and development. This will comprise:



- 33 -
ATTACHMENT
(a) a register of all rural and interurban roads in Greece, as
well as town and urban roads forming part of the interurban
network describing the type and importance of traffic and
transport demand they serve, giving salient details of road
link locations, roadside developments, type and conditions
of existing surface and structures, and route lengths;
(b) the collection of data on all roads registered under para 5(a)
which will be classified by the Government as National and
Provincial, for a continuous inventory of their horizontal
and vertical alignments, curvatures, cross-sections, sight
distances, running surface conditions, pavement thicknesses,
types and qualities, side and cross drainage and horizontal and
vertical road signs; and
(c) the design and use of the MPW computer storage system for road
inventory data, suitable for use together with traffic data in
periodic economic and technical analyses for road maintenance and
development.
(b) Traffic Counting
6.        The updating of, and provision of assistance in implementing traffic
counting systems on National and Provincial roads to determine traffic charac-
teristics suitable for use in programming road maintenance and improvement
works. This will comprise:
(a) the design of an "n" point master traffic count system to develop
predictions of flow variation and growth characteristics for
traffic against a relevant series of road and transport demand
types;
(b) the design of a periodic counting procedure to be used on all
roads in conjunction with the master count system such that
estimated flows can be assessed from base traffic data for all
links in the network;
(c) the design and use of the MPW computer storage system with easy
retrieval, for road traffic data and suitable for use with road
inventory and unit cost data;
(d) the setting up of procedures and statements of manpower, mater-
ials, equipment, services and funds required to implement and
control the proposed traffic counting system; and
(e) a detailed program for the proposed counting system and assist-
ance in implementing it.



- 34 -
ATTACHMENT
(c) Traffic Generation
7.        The setting up and implementation of procedures to predict traffic
types, loadings and volumes in Greece from basic data. This will comprise:
(a) the assessment of trends in traffic flow on the basis outlined
in para 6 of these terms;
(b) the compilation of data on registered vehicles in Greece show-
ing type, age, dimensions and axle configurations, power-to-
weight ratios and standard vehicle loading limits;
(c) the determination of wheel loadings encountered in Greece during
road transport O-D surveys and at other times as necessary;
(d) the location, timing, scope and methodology required for specific
road transport O-D surveys and for their analysis as required;
(e) the collection of economic data on population, employment, gross
product, per capita income, commodity productions and consump-
tions, and import and export commodities, all by regions (or
zones) and for Greece overall, and the regional (or zonal) inter-
actions of product flows and migration;
(f) the assessment of the effect of proposed Greek developments and
international factors as cf December 1977 on the economic data;
(g) the assessment of traffic generation from actual and forecast
economic data, and O-D survey data; and
(h) the comparison and calibration of traffic generation models with
the data derived from the traffic counting systems.
(d) Road Maintenance Works
8.        Identification of all significant elements of work on routine and
emergency maintenance, minor improvements and rehabilitation, and the recom-
mendation of methods of executing these elements. This will comprise:
(a) a specification for each element of permanent work;
(b)  the definition of different methods that may be used to carry
out the work elements, stating the manpower, materials and
equipment amounts needed together with the relevant unit rates,
extended to give unit costs for work elements; and



- 35 -
ATTACHMENT
(c) comparison of the alternative methods of executing all
significant elements of road maintenance, minor improvements,
rehabilitation and emergency works. This will lead to recom-
mendations on proposed methods of executing works based upon
minimizing costs within the Government policy frame and the
availability of resources to carry out the work.
(e) Evaluation of Road Improvement and Maintenance
9.        The determination of minimum levels of traffic for specified road
maintenance and improvements against identifiable road types. This will com-
prise:
(a) the collection and synthesis of data on unit construction and
maintenance costs for typical roads under various traffic con-
ditions;
(b) the collection of vehicle operating cost data for these typical
roads;
(c) the determination of annual economic costs for maintenance, re-
habilitation and improvement and the preparation of appropriate
economic justifications therefor, including sensitivity analyses
of the most likely variations in major inputs and the effect these
may have upon the Consultants' recommendations; and
(d) the establishment of average daily traffic levels for typical
roads sufficient to merit defined maintenance, rehabilitation and
minor and major improvements.
(f) Five-Year Road Maintenance Programs
10.       The preparation of two successive five-year Road Maintenance Pro-
grams for the years 1977-82, namely an initial program for 1977-1981 and a
first progressive program 1978-82, for minor improvements, rehabilitation and
maintenance on National and Provincial roads. This will comprise:
(a) an assessment of the costs, extent and implications of a works
program that would maintain the levels of service provided by
the National and Provincial road network as it stands as of
March 1977;
(b) an assessment of priority sections that merit minor improvements
and rehabilitation on the basis of minimizing the costs of road
construction and maintenance and vehicle operation for each of
the Program years 1977 through 1981, together with the costs,
extent and implications of the work;



- 36 -
ATTACHMENT
(c) formulation of the 1977-81 Program from paras 9, 10(a) and 10(b)
of these terms of reference, and indicating the resources of man-
power, materials, equipment, and services and funds (financial
costs) needed for each of the five years. The financial costs
will be broken down into local and foreign currency elements.
The collection, storage and retrieval of program data and com-
puter programming will be suitable for annual updating procedures
allowing for changes made to the highway network in previous
years. The Consultants will prepare the initial Program 1977-81
and the first progressive Program 1978-82 under Phase I, and in
addition under Phase II of their services the second progressive
Program 1979-83; and
(d) works planning programs for each of the first two five-year
Programs showing how the physical resources will be developed
and deployed in 1977 and 1978.
The Consultants will take into account the physical, and financial constraints
indicated by the Ministries of Finance, Coordination and Planning, and Public
Works in preparing their five-year and works planning programs.
C. Phase I: Organization for Road Maintenance Sub-phase
The scope of this sub-phase will be:
(a) The Existing Road Maintenance Organizations
11.       Statements on all the existing road maintenance organizations in
Greece. This will comprise:
(a) a detailed statement on the Central Government organizations
which are carrying out road maintenance in 1976, showing the
manpower being used, authorities and responsibilities from
Ministerial level down. This statement will show what staff
are deployed from each organization on:
(1)  maintenance planning and advance works' program-
ming;
(2) supervision-in-chief;
(3) site supervision and daily works programming;
(4) execution of maintenance works;
(5) public relations; and



- 37 -
ATTACHMENT
(6) roadside controls, legislation and expropriations.
The statement will also show what are the administrative and control arrange-
ments and staffing in each organization on:
(7) personnel matters including recruitment, training
and promotions;
(8) bank accounting, payments and audit;
(9) budgeting;
(10)  procurement of materials and equipment;
(11)  storekeeping and related inventories;
(12)  equipment holdings, their repair and maintenance;
(13)  cost accounting, works records and controls;
(14)  communications, and
(15)  fixed assets (offices, camps, workshops, etc.).
(b)  a statement on local Government bodies, other organizations and
communities which in 1976 are carrying out road maintenance showing
their responsibilities and the manpower and equipment being used;
(c)  a statement of Government regulations, laws and decrees that
are relevant to road maintenance together with a summary of their
implications; and
(d)  a statement of the financing made available for road maintenance
for each year 1972-76 referenced to the road networks to which
they are allocated.
(b) Capacity of the Existing Organizations
12.       An assessment of the ability of the existing central and local Gov-
ernment organizations to carry out road maintenance as recommended in paras 8
and 10 of these terms of reference for National and Provincial roads and a
statement on the adequacy of all elesents of the present organizations. This
assessment and statement will cover the maintenance needed for the National
and Provincial road network as proposed under para 5 (b) of these terms of
reference.



- 38 -
ATTACHMENT
(c) Proposals for a Road Maintenance Organization of the Ministry of Public
Works
13.       The preparation of proposals for reorganizing the Ministry of Public
Works so that in due course it will be able to carry out effectively the main-
tenance, minor improvements and rehabilitation on all National and Provincial
roads as defined in para 5 (b) of these terms of reference. The proposals will
show details of the:
(a) organization for maintenance works at headquarters, regional
and district levels with its requirements on accounting, plan-
ning, budgeting, administration and works execution;
(b) location and road network assigned to each of the maintenance
centers down to and below district level, together with their
internal organizations and their staffing, equipment, materials
and funding requirements;
(c) controls over and for monitoring works execution including cost
accounting, and the authorities and responsibilities of all
staff in the organization;
(d) staffing proposals in the form of a personnel and pay classifica-
tion plan;
(e) requirements of an equipment hire division which will control the
procurement, operation, maintenance and funding of equipment in-
clusive of arrangements for staffing, costing, spares inventory,
and fixed assets (workshops, yards, etc.);
(f) procurement systems for all materials and equipment;
(g) fixed assets required in offices, laboratories, workshops and
staff accommodation and the recommended methods of execution of
all non-road building works; and
(h) training requirements, their types and extent, the organizations
within and outside Government, in Greece and abroad to be used to
carry out academic and practical training, and for the coordination
of training.
(d) Assistance on Routine Maintenance of Paved National Roads
14.       Advice to the Ministry of Public Works on the force account routine
maintenance of paved National roads. The Consultants will advise on:
(a) the deployment, operation and maintenance of highway equipment
for routine maintenance of paved National roads;



- 39 -
ATTACHMENT
(b) the organization and operation of road maintenance including the
location of field maintenance centers and the assignation of road
networks to them; and
(c) staffing and works control proposals.
D. Assistance on Specified Feasibility Studies
15.       Assist the Ministry of Public Works in specified feasibility study
by the:
(a) preparation of detailed terms of reference for Consultants
to carry out the feasibility studies;
(b) evaluation of such Consultants' proposals, interviewing and
selecting such Consultants;
(c) supervision of such Consultants during execution of the studies;
and
(d) review of the recommendations of such Consultants at the various
study stages.
E. Phase II: Implementation of Road Maintenance - Stage I
16.       After consideration by the Government of the Consultant's maintenance
proposals, the Government will instruct the Consultants to proceed with Stage I -
Implementation of Road Maintenance in accordance with an acceptable program.
The scope of the implementation Stage I will be:
(a) Schedule for Implementing Road Maintenance: Stage I
17.       Operational planning leading to proposals for scheduling the setting
up of an agreed road maintenance organization and preparation of proposals for
implementing a maintenance program 1979-83. This will comprise:
(a) a listing and description of the activities for implementing the
program and the constraints to be overcome;
(b) a detailed schedule and operational plans for implementation over
about two to four years showing the dependence of various activities
upon each other and which reflects how constraints will be overcome;
and
(c) a schedule of the annual inputs 1979-83 of manpower, materials,
equipment and funds for implementing the program.



- 40
ATTACHMENT
(b) Manuals for Road Maintenance and Training
18.       The preparation of manuals, and procedural and standard documenta-
tion so that the organization can operate efficiently. These will comprise:
(a)  an operational manual for road maintenance,
(b) standard specifications for road maintenance, minor improve-
ments and rehabilitation works,
(c) an operational manual for road equipment,
(d) a maintenance manual for road equipment,
(e)  a costing manual for equipment funding,
(f) a costing manual for road maintenance,
(g) manuals for in-service training,
(h) training syllabi,
(i) a storekeeping manual,
(j) a traffic counting and a O-D manual, and
(k) procedural statements for administration, procurement, the
equipment hire division, storekeeping, costing, bank account-
ing and payments, budgeting, future maintenance program iden-
tification, and for operational planning.
F. Organization of Services, Time Schedule, and Reports
(a) General
19.       The Consultants will provide all experts necessary to complete the
services in accordance with Part III A of these terms of reference and within
the time limit that will be agreed with the Government. Each member of the
Consultant's team will work with nominated Greek Government counterparts in
the Ministry of Public Works. Throughout the services, the Project Manager
of the Consultants team will be given opportunities for discussions with the
Minister for Public Works and will report to the person designated by him
as the coordinator for this technical assistance. The Consultant's team
will operate as an entity under ,he Project Manager and no team members
will be responsible to any member of the Ministry of Public Works. They
will however liaise with their nominated counterparts.



- 41 -
ATTACHMENT
(b) Supporting Services to be provided by the Consultants
20.       In addition to the Consultant's team of experts the Consultants
shall provide:
(a) living accommodation for their staff;
(b) printing and reproduction services for all Draft and Final
reports; and
(c) three 4-wheel drive vehicles with equipment for carrying out
road inventory work within two months of the start date of
their services. These three vehicles will be efficiently
operated and maintained by the Government and will be the
property of the Government.
(c) Coordination of Services with Government Requirements
21.       To assess the progress of the services, at least four meetings
are to be held in Greece at which the Consultants and the Government will
exchange views. The timing of these meetings is to be approximately four,
fifteen, twenty-two and thirty-one months after the date of this technical
assistance agreement. The meetings, apart from the one in month four, will
separately include the three reviews of the Final Reports of the Consultants
on Planning, Organization and Implementation.
(d) Time Schedule and Reports
22.       The Consultants shall prepare and submit the following report in
the English language on the indicated dates:
(a) an Inception Report - (35 copies) two months after the Starting
Date, summarizing the initial findings of the Consultants and
outlining any proposals for revisions in the work program;
(b) Progress Reports - (15 copies) every three months during each
phase from the beginning of the Phase;
(c) Phase I Draft Final Report: Planning - (10 copies) one month
before completion of the Planning section of Phase I;
(d) Phase I Final Report: Planning - (35 copies) one month after
receipt of comments by the Government on the draft final report.
The final report shall incorporate all comments of the Government
and revisions deemed appropriate by the Consultants;
(e) Phase I Draft Final Report: Organization - (10 copies) one month
before completion of the Organization section of Phase I;



- 42 -
ATTACHMENT
(f)  Phase I Final Report:  Organization - (35 copies) one month
after receipt of comments by the Government on the draft
final report. The final report shall incorporate all com-
ments of the Government and revisions deemed appropriate by
the Consultants;
(g)  Phase II Draft Final Report - (10 copies) one month before
completion of the Phase II;
(h)  Phase II Final Report - (35 copies) one month after receipt
of the comments by the Government on the draft final report.
The final report shall incorporate all comments of the Govern-
ment and revisions deemed appropriate by the Consultants;
(i)  Draft Summary Report - (10 copies) four months after the end
of Phase II; and
(j)  Final Summary Report - (50 copies) one month after the receipt
of the comments of the Government on the draft summary report.
The final summary report shall incorporate all comments of the
Government and revisions deemed appropriate by the Consultants.
The starting date is the date stated in this technical assistance Agreement
upon which this Agreement becomes effective.
IV. DATA, SERVICES AND FACILITIES TO BE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE GOVERNMENT
23.       The Government is to provide the Consultants with free access to all
available data and information relevant to the Services including but not
limited to: (1) previous studies sponsored by the Government that may have an
impact on highway maintenance programming; (2) forecasts of population and of
agricultural and industrial production and consumption; (3) maps of the high-
way network of the country; (4) recent highway traffic and O-D survey data;
(5) recent construction costs per km of highway, by type of highway and type
of terrain; (6) recent highway maintenance costs; (7) Ministry of Public Works
staffing situation and personel procedures; (8) English translations of
regulations and laws related to highway administration and transportation;
and (9) the Government's annual expenditure and revenues related to highway
transports for 1972-1979.
24.       The Government will provide:
(a)  supporting staff to assist in the activities of the con-
sultant's team. Such supporting staff shall consist of
secretaries, typists, clerks, translators, draftsmen and
messengers who will assist in the day-to-day operations
of the Consultant's work. The number of supporting staff



- 43 -
ATTACHMENT
will vary according to the workload of the Consultant's team,
but it is not expected to exceed 20 persons. Tn addition, the
Government will provide drivers for all vehicles to be used in
carrying out the Consultant's services;
(b) an adequate number of vehicles apart from the four-wheel drive
vehicles for road inventory work, for carrying out the Con-
sultant's services. These vehicles will be efficiently operated
and maintained by the Government and will be the property of
the Government; and
(c) adequate office and work accommodation within the Ministry of
Public Works for all Consultant's staff on the project in-
cluding utilities, printing, copying, stationery, and com-
puter services and domestic telephone, telegraph and postal
services.
25.       In connection with work by the Consultants that may require the co-
operation of and coordination with Government agencies other than the Ministry
of Public Works, the Government is to provide liaison and is to ensure that
the Consultants have all data related to their services. The Government is to
assign full-time counterparts who will work with each member of the Consultant's
team for the duration of the Services and will assign selected personnel to be
trained during the Services for the implementation of later road maintenance
work.



- 44 -
IV. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.01      The proposed road between Patras and Pyrgos will serve as the main
highway artery for traffic between the Northern and Southern parts of Western
Peloponnese; its continuation from Pyrgos to Olympia will serve an agricul-
tural area as well as act as a tourist access road to the ancient archaeo-
logical sites at Olympia. The proposed road project will meet the growing
transport demand in one of the main agricultural areas in Greece, which in-
cludes the project area of a Government financed irrigation project presently
under implementation. At the same time, the proposed road will bypass 22 vil-
lage communities and towns, which presently act as bottlenecks on the existing
road. The main direct benefits from road construction would be savings in
transport costs; of these savings 60% would accrue to goods transport vehicles
(pick-ups and trucks), 30% to public passenger transport vehicles (buses and
taxis), and 10% to private passenger cars. Indirect benefits would be avoid-
ance by the villages bypassed of traffic noise and exhaust pollution and
traffic accidents. The main beneficiaries will be users of the highway and
inhabitants of the villages and towns which will be bypassed by the highway.
4.02      The proposed highway maintenance and workshop equipment will help
maintain an estimated 8,500 kms of primary roads which would otherwise be in
danger of deteriorating. The main direct benefits from the equipment would
be savings in the costs of road maintenance. These savings would be available
for redistribution to other parts of the economy in accordance with the overall
development objectives of the Government.
4.03      The average economic return on road construction and the road main-
tenance equipment, which account for 90% of total project cost, is 26%; this
aggregate economic return excludes the technical assistance and the feasibility
studies (para 4.18) which are also included under the project, but for which no
meaningful economic return could be estimated.
B. Road Construction
(a) Background
4.04      The immediate influence area of the project road is about 590,000 ha,
and is located in the Western part of Peloponnese, and is one of the main
agricultural areas of Greece   (Map IBRD 12023).  In 1973, the population of
the influence area was about 400,000 inhabitants, of which 170,000 lived in
urban areas, the main towns being Patras (112,000 inhabitants), Pyrgos (21,000
inhabitants) and Amalias (15,000 inhabitants). Over the past decade, the popu-
lation level has been slightly decreasing. About 140,000 ha are cultivated.
The main agricultural products are vegetables (480,000 tons annually). In
addition the area produces citrus fruits (50,000 tons), wine (60,000 tons),
vegetable oil (20,000 tons) and dairy products (60,000 tons). Except for
dairy products, the influence area is a surplus producer of all the above
products, exporting totally about 370,000 tons of agricultural products



- 45 -
to other regions of the country, especially to Attica. The main industrial
products are cement and cement products (485,000 tons), wood and paper products
(70,000 tons), beverages (52,000 tons), and cans and containers (40,000 tons).
4.05      The Government is presently implementing a major irrigation project
in the influence area, financed entirely from its own budget. The project will
expand the total irrigated area from 10,500 ha to 45,200 ha. The irrigated area
will be cultivated with vegetables and fruits. When completed by the end of
1977, the project is expected to double the productivity of the land irrigated,
thus enabling the area to supply a growing domestic and European market for
vegetables and fruit.
4.06      The present road between Patras and Pyrgos is about 87 km long and
follows the coastal plain. It is a two-lane highway with a typical cross-
section of 7 m pavement width and 1 m shoulders. The shoulders are earth and
often not level with the pavement. Horizontal and vertical alignments are
reasonably good. There are 7 railway level-crossings between Patras and Pyrgos.
All intersections are at grade. The road passes through 19 villages of an
average length of 1 km each. The present road between Pyrgos and Olympia is
about 19 km long and runs east-west from the coastal plain into the mountains
of central Peloponnese. It is a two-lane highway with a typical cross-section
of 6 m pavement width and 0.5 m shoulders. The shoulders are earth and often
not level with the pavement. Horizontal and vertical alignments are rather
poor in the mountainous terrain, where some curves have a radius of less than
50 m and some stretches have grades up to 10%. There is one railway level-
crossing between Pyrgos and Olympia. All intersections are at grade. The
road runs through 3 villages of an average length of 0.7 km each. The pave-
ment of both project road sections is asphaltic and in fair condition, with
frequent potholes, settlement and edge failures. Selected characteristics of
the project road sections at present and after reconstruction are shown below:
Project Road Section
Patras-Pyrgos   Pyrgos-Olympia   Patras-Olympia
Item                             Present Project  Present Project  Present Project
Total Length (km)                 87.0    84.9       18.6    14.6      105.6    99.6
Rural Sections                  68.9    84.9      16.6    14.7        86.0    99.6
Village Sections                18.1      0         2.0     0         19.6      0
Pavement
Type                             asphaltic         asphaltic           asphaltic
Condition                      fair    good       fair   good        fair    good
Number of Villages                19        0         3       0         22        0
Average Distances (km)
within villages                  1.0      0        0.7      0         0.9       0
between villages                 3.6      0        5.5      0         3.9       0
Average Gradient (%)               0.9      0.9       3.1     3.1      not applicable



- 46 -
(b)  Traffic
4.07      Traffic volumes and growth on the highway network were established
on the basis of: (i) a national transportation survey carried out in 1965
by the Center of Planning and Economic Research; (ii) an origin-destination
(O-D) survey carried out during February-March 1973 by Ingeroute under the
UNDP-financed highway reconnaissance survey and feasibility studies (para 2.10);
(iii) volume traffic counts carried out in October 1973 by Ingeroute; and (iv)
volume traffic counts carried out during the years 1965-73 by the Ministry of
Public Works. On the basis of the above counts average daily traffic in 1973
between Patras and Pyrgos was found to range from 1,500 to 2,400 vehicles per
day (vpd), and between Pyrgos and Olympia from 700 to 900 vpd. In addition,
both road sections carry slow moving agricultural traffic consisting of
tractors and other agricultural equipment. Details of the traffic composition
by sections of the present roads in 1973 are shown below:
Project Road Section
Patras-Pyrgos      Pyrgos-Olympia
Vehicle Type                     veh/day       %    veh/day        %
Car                                908         41     255          30
Taxi                               155          7       68          8
Pick-up                            377         17      213         25
Light Truck                        155          7       60           7
Heavy Truck                        443         20      127         15
Bus                                177          8      127          15
Total                2,215        100      850         100
4.08      During the period 1965-73 traffic between Patras and Pyrgos has
increased at an average annual rate of about 7%, while traffic between Pyrgos
and Olympia increased at an average annual rate of about 2%.  Due to the in-
creased oil prices, which in 1974 led to an increase in the costs of gasoline
and diesel oil, average annual traffic growth stagnated in 1974 and 1975. On
the basis of anticipated resumption of economic growth in Greece combined with
anticipated increase in traffic due to completion of the irrigation project in
the influence area, average annual traffic growth has been conservatively
estimated at 5% on the Patras-Pyrgos section and 3% on the Pyrgos-Olympia
section between 1973 and 1979; 6% on the Patras-Pyrgos section and 4% on the
Pyrgos-Olympia section during the first 10 years of the project life, and 5%
on the Patras-Pyrgos section and 3% on the Pyrgos-Olympia section during the
remaining 10 years.
(c) Road Improvement Alternatives
4.09      To adequately serve anticipated future highway traffic in the Patras-
Pyrgos-Olympia corridor, improvement of the existing highway is required. Two
improvement alternatives were considered: reconstruction of the existing road,
or construction of an expressway on a new alignment parallel to, but at some
distance from, the existing road. While, initially, the Government favored
the expressway alternative, a technical .nd economic feasibility study by



- 47 -
Ingeroute (para 3.06) and subsequent discussions between the Government and the
Bank concluded, that the existing road reconstructed could adequately serve
anticipated traffic for the foreseeable future, and that construction of an
expressway was not economically justified at this time.
(d) Competition with Railway
4.10      Between Patras and Pyrgos, the alignment of the present and pro-
posed road closely follows and often crosses the railway ring-line of the
Peloponnese, which is of metric gauge. This line continues further south
from Pyrgos, and between Patras and Pyrgos a few lines branch off: on the
western side, a branch from Kavasila which splits again to serve Killini
and Loutra, and another branch from Pyrgos to Katakolon; on the eastern side,
and past Pyrgos, a small line to Olympia. The number of passengers presently
transported between Patras and Pyrgos amounts to approximately 1,300 per day,
and between Pyrgos and Olympia about 300 per day. Present freight-traffic
volumes between Patras and Pyrgos are about 125 tons per day, and between
Pyrgos and Olympia about 20 tons per day.
4.11      The present number of passengers on the railroad corresponds to
about 85 buses per day between Patras and Pyrgos, and 20 buses per day between
Pyrgos and Olympia. These figures are small when compared to total average
daily traffic in 1973 of 2,200 and 850 vehicles respectively for Patras-Pyrgos
and Pyrgos-Olympia. Although it is likely that some diversion from rail to
bus transport will occur due to road improvements, the amount would probably
not be significant, as long distance traffic represents more than half of the
traffic observed on the railway. The total volumes of freight traffic would
correspond to a daily traffic of 15-20 trucks between Patras and Pyrgos, and
only 2-3 trucks between Pyrgos and Olympia. Since most of the traffic at
present travelling by rail comes from Athens, and since it is not likely that
the rail traffic will undergo substantial changes, road improvements have not
been assumed to divert significant freight traffic from the railway to the
highway. Due to its insignificant size, the potentially divertible rail-
way traffic was not included in the analysis.
(e) Road Construction and Maintenance Costs
4.12      The estimated costs of the facility, exclusive of taxes, which were
used for the economic evaluation are shown below (in Dr million):
Project Road Sections
Item                         Patras-Pyrgos  Pyrgos-Olympia  Patras-Olympia
Project Preparation              16.14             1.89             18.03
Construction                    703.60            81.80            785.40
Right-of-Way Acquisition         85.37            14.73            100.10
Supervision of Construction    37.94               4.41             42.35
Total               843.05           102.83            945.88
Average Annual Maintenance       5.95             0.77              6.72



- 48 -
The costs cover project preparation, construction, supervision, land acquisi-
tion, and maintenance.
(f) Transport Costs
4.13     Transport costs are based on owning and operating typical vehicles.
On the basis of the information on type and composition of traffic from the
O-D survey and information received from Government, the following vehicles
were selected for operating cost analysis and economic evaluation: (i) a
medium-sized passenger car; (ii) a medium-sized taxi; (iii) a pick-up truck
with an average load capacity of 1.5 tons; (iv) a truck with an average load
capacity of 3.5 tons; and (v) a bus/truck with an average load capacity of
30 passengers or 10 tons. The characteristics of each of these
vehicles and their operating costs cn a level, tangent, paved road in good
condition at average speeds of 80 km/h for cars, taxis, and pick-ups, and
64 km/h for trucks and buses, are shown below:
Typical Vehicle
Item                                                    Light  Heavy
Car     Taxi   Pick-Up   Truck   Truck   Bus
Average Characteristics
Price of vehicle (Dr 1000)     139.2    139.2   122.6    394.9  966.8    1,679.5
Price of one tire (Dr)        1,200    1,200   1,850    4,192  5,533  6,750
Number of tires                 4         4       4       6       6      6
Vehicle life (years)            12       10      10       9       9      9
Tire life (1000 km)             40       40      40       50     50     50
Annual vehicle kilometerage)   20.0      60.0    32.0     45.0   77.0   65.0
Vehicle load capacity (passengers or tons)  4  4  1.5     3.5    10.0   30
Operating Costs (Dr/1000 km)
Depreciation and interest    1,021      378     624    1,524   2,180   4,487
Fuel                           441      441     671      455    777     777
Maintenance                    233      233     266    1,281   3,161   5,263
Tires                          120      120     185      503    664    810
Oil and lubrication             20       20      23      114    139     139
Wages and salaries              0      3,333   2,500    2,614  3,038  5,215
Insurance                      180       60     222      249    208     466
Overheads                       0         2     541      718    747     968
Total                       2,015    4,587   5,032    7,458  10,914  18,125
The vehicle operating costs of the typical vehicles were estimated by Ingeroute
on the basis of information on vehicle operating costs on the present roads in
Greece and other parts of Europe. The estimates are reasonable. The effects on
the vehicle operating costs of the typical vehicles of change in surface condi-
tion from good to fair were estimated to be +10% for light vehicles (cars,
taxis and pick-ups) and +15% for heavy vehicles (light trucks, heavy trucks
and buses). The effects on vehicle operating costs of the typical vehicles
from speed reductions through villages are estimated below:



- 49 -
Speed Change Conversion Factors
Operating Cost Item                                                                                 Light            Heavy
Car             Taxi             Pick-Up            Truck            Truck          Bus
Depreciation and Interest                      t0.15            +0.15           +0.15               +0.20            +0.20          +0.20
Fuel                                           +0.25            +0.25           +0.25               +0.25            +0.25         +0.25
Maintenance                                    +0.10            +0.10            +0.10              +0.10            +0.10          +0.10
Tires                                          +0.30            +0.30            +0.30              +0.30            +0.30         +0.30
Oil and Lubrication                            +0.10            +0.10            +0.10              +0.10            +0.10          +0.10
Wages and Salaries                              0               +0.15            +0.15              +0.20            +0.20          +0.20
Insurance                                       0                0                0                  0                0              0
Overheads                                       0                0                0                  0                0              0
Average                                    +0.16            +0.16            +0.14               +0.17            +0.16         +0.16
25 km/h Constant Speed Conversion Factor
Operating Cost Item                                                                                 Light            Heavy
Car             Taxi             Pick-Up            Truck            Truck          Bus
Depreciation and Interest                       0               +1.05           +1.05               +0.85            +0.85         +0.85
Fuel                                           +0.15            +0.15            -0.20              -0.20            -0.20          -0.20
Maintenance                                    -0.30            -0.30            -0.30              -0.30            -0.30          -0.30
Tires                                          -0.40            -0.40            -0.40              -0.50            -0.50          -0.50
Oil and Lubrication                             0                0                0                 +0.10            +0.10         +0.10
Wages and Salaries                              0               +1.05            +1.05              +0.85            +0.85          +0.85
Insurance                                       0                0                0                  0                0              0
Overheads                                       0                0                0                  0                0              0
Average                                    +0.03            +0.84            +0.59              +0.37             +0.28         +0.34
The above factors multiplied with the operating costs per km for typical
vehicles will result in the additional vehicle operating costs due to speed
reduction through villages. The speed changes conversion factors apply to
one speed-change cycle (deceleration and acceleration) from 80 km/h for cars,
taxis and pick-ups and 64 km/h for trucks and buses to 25 km/h for all vehi-
cles. One cycle is assumed for each village. The 25 km/h constant speed
conversion factors apply to each km of village road. Vehicle speed through
villages is assumed to be uniformly 25 km/h for all vehicles. Distance
travelled is assumed dependent on speed as follows: for cars, distance
travelled is independent for speed; for all other vehicles, one third of
distance is dependent on speed.
(g) Benefits
4.14             Benefits from road construction were quantified as savings in vehi-
cle operating costs from: (i) improved surface condition of the road sections;
(ii) avoided speed-reductions through villages and towns; and (iii) length
reduction of the road sections. The opening year savings by project road
section, vehicle type and savings type are shown below (in Dr million):
Project Road Sections
Patras - Pyrgos                  Pyrgos - Olympia                      Patras - Olympia
Surface    Speed        Length      Surface   Speed         Length      Surface    Speed         Length
Improve-  Reduc-        Reduc-      Improve-  Reduc-        Reduc-      Improve-  Reduc-         Reduc-
Vehicle Type             .      ment         tion        tion        ment        tion        tion        ment        tion         tion
Passenger Car                      7.97       3.37        2.18         0.45       0.16        1.36          8.42       3.53        3.54
Taxi                               3.10       6.67        0.85         0.17       0.28        0.53          3.27       6.95        1.38
Pick-Up                            8.26      12.98        2.26         0.46       0.71        1.41          8.72      13.69        3.67
Light Truck                        7.56       5.90        1.44         0.42       0.23        0.90          7.98       6.13        2.34
Heavy Truck                       31.60      20.13        6.03         1.77       0.61        3.77         33.37      20.74        9.80
Bus                               20.99     15.17         4.00         1.18       1.13         2.50        22.17     16.30         6.50
Sub-totals                    79.48      64.22       16.76          4.45      3.12        10.47        83.93      67.34       27.23
Total                                160.46                                18.04                              178.50



- 50 -
Other benefits which were not included are time savings of vehicle occupants
other than professional drivers, the increase in safety and comfort both for
road users and the inhabitants of the villages and towns bypassed. Benefits
from construction were assumed to start immediately upon completion of road
construction and to increase with traffic.
(h) Economic Evaluation
4.15      Economic evaluation shows that construction of the proposed road
connection would be well justified and appropriately timed. Based on a con-
struction period of 3 years, an economic life of 20 years, and the estimated
economic costs of project preparation, construction and super vision, the
overall economic return (ER) of road construction, which account for 68% of
total project cost, has been estimated at 20% with a first-year return of 15%.
The economic returns of the Patras-Pyrgos and the Pyrgos-Olympia sections have
been estimated at 21% and 19% respectively, and the first-year returns at 16%
and 15% respectively. To determine the sensitivity of the ER to variations in
the estimated construction costs and traffic growth, an analysis was carried
out assuming an increase of 15% in construction costs and a decrease of 25% in
benefits. The results, show that even under the most pessimistic circumstances
the construction would still yield an ER of 14%. The estimated economic returns
of project road construction are shown below (in %):
Project Road Sections
Assumptions                  Patras-Pyrgos  Pyrgos-Olympia  Patras-Olympia
Best Estimate of Construction
Costs, and
Expected value of benefits                21               19               20
25% increase in benefits                  25               23               24
25% decrease in benefits                  16               14               16
15% Increase in Construction
Costs, and
Expected value of benefits                18               16               18
25% increase in benefits                  23               21               22
25% decrease in benefits                  15               12               14
15% Decrease in Construction
Costs, and
Expected value of benefits                24               21               23
25% increase in benefits                  28               26               27
25% decrease in benefits                  19               17               18



- 51 -
C. Other Project Elements
(l) MIaintenance Equipment
4.16      Procurement of road maintenance and workshop equipment, including
spare parts, under the proposed project will allow the MPW to carrv out all
routine maintenance of paved National roads by its own forces by the end of
1977 instead of by contract. It is reasonable practice to maintain the
surface and drainage of paved roads to within about 85% of their originally
constructed levels of service to prevent increasing traffic and road mainte-
nance costs. Escalation of these costs will be considerable for paved roads if
maintenance is reduced below this level of service, and will soon, result in
justification of the cost of maintenance.  Presently, paved National roads in
Greece generally provide considerably less than 85% of their original level of
service.
4.17      Routine maintenance of paved roads lends itself to force account
execution rather than by contract, because of the difficulties inherent in
effectively controlling and measuring this type of contract work, and because
of contractors' profit and the cost of Government supervision. The average
lnn1a11L savings from carrying out routine maintenance of paved National roads
force account instead of by contract have been estimated to be about Dr 170
<1Iior. annudlly for the entire paved National road network.  These savings
:epr,sent mainly contractors' profit and the cost ot MiPW supervision of con-
-ractors. Based on an average economic life of six years and on the estimated
-economic cost of the highway maintenance and workshop equipment, including
^pares, the economic return from the equipment purchased, which accounts for
22, of total project cost, has been estimated at 46%.
(b) Technical Assistance and Feasibility Studies
4.18      Benefits from the technical assistance and the feasibility studies,
which account for 10% of total project cost, have not been quantified. These
elements, however, are clearly justified since they will assist the Government
in improving highway maintenance as well as contribute to increased efficiency
of investments and operations in the transport sector as a whole.
V. AGREEMENTS REACIHED AND RECWTODIENDATION
5.01      During loan negotiations assurances were given hV  I(C k;uveraeft-
that it will:
(a)  make satisfactory constru(.tic)r supervision arrangenments
prior to the start of constriaeLion on the Patras-Pyrgos-
Olympia road (para 3.09);



- 52 -
(b)  make satisfactory arrangements for the maintenance, repair,
replacement and renewal of its road maintenance equipment
(para. 3.11);
(c)  make satisfactory arrangements for the establishment of an
organization within MPW to carry out the routine maintenance
of paved National roads and provide the necessary funds and
resources for this purpose (para 3.11);
(d)  implement any such recommendations of the MPW technical assis-
tance consultants as the Bank and the Government may agree
(para 3.13);
(e)  establish the TCC assisted by a permanent unit of the MCP to
act as its Secretariat; cause the Secretariat to initiate
systematic planning in the transport sector; make adequate
arrangements for the timely provision of funds and other
resources required from time to time for the TCC and its
Secretariat to adequately carry out their duties; require the
secretariat to evaluate by December 31, 1978, the capabilities
it has developed and to prepare recommendations for further
actions necessary for the TCC to carry out its functions; and
implement any such recommendations of the Secretariat as the
Bank and the Government may agree (para 3.17);
(f)  provide all cost financing and any excess financing not
covered by the proposed loan, needed to complete the project
(para 3.27);
(g)  appoint a Project Coordinator not later than September 30,
1976 who will ensure coordination between the agencies con-
cerned with those parts of the project being carried out under
the responsibility of the MPW (para 3.28); and
(h)  make satisfactory arrangements for acquisition of the right-
of-way on the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road (para 3.29).
5.02      During loan negotiations agreement with the Government was reached
on:
(a)  the design standards of the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road
(para 3.06);
(b)  the schedule of equipment (para 3.11);
(c)  the number of man-months for fellowship trainees, and that
the Government would forward to the Bank for its approval a
list of candidates and a schedule of their fellowship programs
(para 3.15);
(d) the objectives of the technical assistance to the MCP (para 3.17).



- 53 -
5.03      During loan negottations u[idvrstan(Ii..,s wiLlh tile ,wvcrnnent were
reachied on:
(a)  the details of the terms ot ref,rouro- aind tlhe Agreement for
technical assistance to the MIPW (para 3.13);
(b)  fellowship subjects, types of host organizations, :ind duration
of fellowships (para 3.15).
5.04      During loan negotiations decisions with the Government wvre
reached on:
(a)  the cost estimates for the project (para 3.19);
(b)  the project implementation schedule (para 3.36); and
(c)  the disbursement schedule (para 3.40).
5.05      Conditions of loan effectiveness are:
(a)  the establishment and initial staffing of an organization
within the MPW for the routine maintenance of paved National
roads (para 3.11); and
(b)  the establishment of a Transport Coordinating, Committeo,
and its Secretariat within the ICP (para 3.17).
5.06      The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank Loan of US$30 mil-
lion equivalent to the Hellenic State at amortization over 15 years, includ-
ing a 4-year grace period.



- 54 -
ANNEX
Documents Available in Project File
UNDP Country Programming Background Paper for Greece, January 1973.
UNDP Project Document for Highway Reconnaissance Survey and Feasi-
bility Studies.
Papers on O-D Survey of Greek Highway Transport, 1966.
Terms of reference for Consulting Services for Road Maintenance 1966
with Greek Government.
Contract with Sauti for Consulting Services with the Greek Government,
January 1971.
Addendum June 2, 1972 to Sauti terms of reference.
Contract for Consultants' Services with Ingeroute - June 27, 1972,
with IBRD.
Contract for Consulting Services with a consortium of Greek con-
sultants June 15, 1974 for a study of the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia
road.
Statistical Yearbook of Greece, National Statistical Service of
Greece, 1973 and 1974.
Economic Development Plan for Greece 1968-72, Ministry of Coordina-
tion, February 1968.
General Survey on the Hellenic State Railways, Summary and Recom-
mendations, and Annexes, Sofrerail 1966.
Modernization de la Ligne, Athens-Salonique, Organisme des Chemins
de Fer de Grece, Sofrerail, May 1971.
Plan de Modernisation, Organisme des Chemins de Fer de Grece,
Sofrerail, March 1972.
Possibilites de Dessertes Ferroviaires, Suburbaines dans le Grand
Athene, Organisme des Chemins de Fer de Grece, December 1972.
Perspectives d'Avenir du Reseau du Peloponnese, des Chemins de Fer
de Grece, Sofrerail, March 1973.



- 55 -
ANNEX
-     Prix de Revient, Organisme des Chemins de Fer Hellenigues, Sofrerail,
January 1974.
-     Annual Bulletin, Thessaloniki Port Authority, 1970 and 1973.
-     Annual Bulletin, Port of Piraeus Authority, 1974 and 1975.
-     Bulletin of Shipping Statistics, National Statistical Service of
Greece, 1970.
-     Aeronautical Information Publication, Greece, Third Edition,
Civil Aviation Administration, Nov. 15, 1974.
-     Air Traffic Statistics, Civil Aviation Authority, 1972 and 1974.
-     Doxiades Feasibility Report - June 1969 on Rio-Patras Pyrgos-Olympia
Road.
-      '"Sauti" Road Maintenance Study - July 1973 composed of 7 volumes.
- Summary
- Final Report
- Volume A
- Volume B
- Volume C
- Volume D
- Volume E
-     Ferrai-Kastane Road Engineering
- Preliminary Design Layout Plan
- Horizontal Alignment (3 sheets)
- Typical Cross Sections
- Preliminary Cost Estimates
-     Elefsis-Thives Road Engineering
- Summary Preliminary Cost Estimates
- General Layout Plan of Alternatives
- Government's comments on Ingeroute Alignment B2
-     Sauti Maintenance Study Stage II
- Program of Maiiten.ince for Epirus Region
- Schedile of Staff Activities for Epirus Mlaintenance Prograir
- Report on a 'Maintenance Program 1974/75 for Epirus Region



- 56 -
ANNEX
"Ingeroute" Highway Maintenance Survey and Feasibility Studies,
August 1974, composed of 12 volumes:
- Inception Report
- Complementary Inception Report
- Interim Report I
- Summary
- National Road Network Inventory
- Master Plan
- General Economy:  Traffic Data
- General Engineering
- Feasibility Study: Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia Road
- Feasibility Study: Elefsis-Thives Road
- Feasibility Study: Ferrai-Kastene Road
- Feasibility Study: Lamia-Fasala Larisa Road
Review and Analysis of Ingeroute Survey and Studies by Prof.
Anthony R. Tomazinis, September 1974.
Notes on Ingeroute Final Draft Reports by D. Petropoulos
- Elefsis-Thives feasibility study
- Ferrai-Kastene feasibility study
- Lamia-Farsala-Larissa feasibility study
Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia Road Design
- 1:200,000 route map showing main urban areas
- 1:200,000 route map showing road sections
- 1:200,000 route map showing railway crossings
Miscellaneous Project Identification Papers, November 1965.
Register of maintenance contracts 74/75 in Epirus Region (3 sheets)
Technical Description of a Maintenance Contract 74/75 for Provincial
Road No. 2, Ioannina-Syrakos.
Legal notice on truck freight rates, 1970.
Decree 1060 on commercial road transport, 1971.
Decrees 56/73 and 1266/72 on implementation of Public Projects.
Legal Notice on bus fares, 1973.
Legal Notice on bus fares revised, 1973.
Legal Notice on taxi fares, 1973.



- 57 -
ANNEX
Decree 126 on vehicle weights and dimensions revised, 1973.
Decree 102 on commercial road transport, 1973.
Legal notice on taxi fares revised, 1974.
Legal vehicle loading and dimension limits in Greece, 1973 (in French
text).
*  -  Legal notice on truck freight rates revised, 1974.
Memo on road contract price increases in Greece.
Greek Regulations on Railway Crossings with Roads.
Memoranda on Greek bidding procedures (No.1)
Memoranda on Registration of Greek contractors (No. 2)
- List of registered Greek contractors (No. 3), March 1973 to March 1974.
Memorandum on November 1975 Organization of MPW.
Greek proposal for Highway Maintenance by IIPW.
Memorandum on Greek land acquisition procedures (No. 6).
Greek proposal for supervision of Patras-Olympia (No. 7).
Memorandum on Greek roadside planning controls (No. 8).
Greek proposal for contract letting on Patras-Olympia (No. 9).
Greek Monthly Statistical Bulletin, February 1975.
Memorandum on Greek road marking procedures.
Greek memorandum on Unit Price list compared with Contract prices, 1975.
Memorandum on vehicle operating costs in Greece, December 1975.
Greek road signs and signals manual, November 1974, 2 volumes (1 of
English text and I of Greek text and drawings of signs).
Greek highway construction standard specifications, 1969. (16 volufe&-,
Geometric design standards for Greek roads, 1969.



- 58 -
ANNEX
Summary Bills for the four contracts, December 1975:
- Patras-Lappa
- Lappa-Pinios
- Pinios-Pyrgos
- Pyrgos-Olympia
Index of design data Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia submitted to IBRD, in
November 1975:
- Final design of road:
- General layout                                  1:50,000
- Plan                                            1:1,000
- Profile                                         1:1,000/1:100
- Typical road cross sections                     1:50
- Superelevation diagram
- Visibility diagram on curves
- Location of intersections and road
structures                                 1:5,000
- Topo surveys at road structures                 1:5,000
- Expropriation plan                              1:1,000
- General technical report
- Technical report by sections
- Quantity estimates
- Cost estimates
- Price list
- Report on the restoration of irrigation services
Preliminary design of intersections
- For each intersection are included:
- Plan                                            1:500
- Profiles
- Technical report
- Quantity estimate
- Preliminary design of road structures (Span IOM)
-  For each road structure are included:
- Layout
- Sections and views
- Plan of slab reinforcement
- Structural calculations
- Technical report
- Quantity and cost estimates



- 59 -
ANNEX
Agricultural traffic on Patras-Olympia road, 1974.
IBRD Summary Memo on Routine Maintenance of National Roads,
December 1975.
Data submitted to IBRD on road maintenance, October 1975.
- Memorandum on road maintenance proposals.
- Map showing the National roads of Greece.
- Seven (7) tables containing the national road registry
(for Greece), including traffic, viability and type
of pavement (1 for each region).
- National Road register summary table.
- Table showing the existing national road maintenance
equipment belonging to the Public.
- Table showing the existing resources (as per end of
1975) for the routine maintenance of National roads
(equipment, personnel and approved budget).
-Seven (7) tables containing 1976 proposals for the required
road maintenance equipment, materials and personnel as well
as cost elements (one table for each region).
- Summary table of proposals for all national paved roads
of Greece.
- Table showing an analysis of the required road equipment for
the routine maintenance of National roads of Greece together
with their cost.
- Specifications for Road Maintenance Equipment.
List of Projects for feasibility study selection under IBRD Loan,
December 1975.
List of data submitted by Government to IBRD on October 30, 1975.
Detailed list of disbursements by Cost Categories for January 1976
Staff Project Report.
Computer printouts on Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road economics.
Draft resume of events, 1965-73 in the identification of Highway
Project in Greece.
Greek proposal for Fellowships to MPW.



- 60 -
ANNEX
Revised Bills of Quantities, March 1976:
- Roitika-Lappa.
- Lappa-Pinios.
- Pinios-Pyrgos.
- Pyrgos-Olympia.
Revised Specification No. 16 for Snowplows.
Revised Specification No. 15 for Mechanical Sweepers.
Revised Final Specification for all Road Maintenance to be purchased
under IBRD Loan.
Draft bid documents for procurement of Road Maintenance Equipment
Conditions of Contract for Feasibility Study Elefin-Thebes and
Athens-Schimatori, January 1976
- Makeup list and costs of existing and proposed road maintenance
equipment, 1975.
Foreign exchange and depreciaityon calculation on Maintenance Equip-
ment.
Greek proposal for Technical Assistance to MPW.
Draft Terms of REference and Agreement for Technical Assistance to
MPW.
Draft Terms of REference and Agreement for Technical Assistance to
MPC.
- Memorandum on Fellowship Training Program for Greeks abroad,
February 24, 1976.



14 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I BR D   11917
Z.                                                                                                                                                        u s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I- 
SPAIN         -           (7  ~~~~TURKEY
Koean   -    K~rin K                                                                         A>
9?1~                                                       ~ ~  a9?'                                                                                      GRECE                                           C
TRANSPORT SYSTEM
KORF  U                                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT ROAD
-- 3-FEASIBILITY STUDIES
NATIONAL ROADS
CI                                                                 -~~~~~~~~~~~~-e+t ~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
C                                         t      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIRPORTS
-     -CAR FERRIES
-----INTER ISLAND SHIPPING ROUTES
~~--CONTOURS IN METERS  CaagtNCea.Isj
   &   K                                                                                               ,   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>    -=~~~~~~~~------~~~~~~~~~~~~--   ~~~~RIV ERS
- -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
IZMIR/
CT%
380~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
KILOMETERS
~~~    pol.s  1r  \  ,\X   9  NJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~MILES 
- -                  -~~~~~~~~~~     - ~~~~RODHES
4AIEDITFr A  A N eA'N    S'EA-                                                                                                           K -I'-    -T
h..
CRE hTE   a 
RAfT LIQR4 ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     WA~wt
JANUARY 1978






21'15'                                              21,3.
PATRAS
ROt'a                              PATRAS-A  GRE ECE
PATRAS- PYRGOS-OLYMPIA
ROAD PROJECT
NEW ALIGNMENT
1       ROADiRAILROAD GRADE SEPARATIONS
IRRIGATION WORKS AREAS
TOWNS
EXISTING ROADS
I-----IRAILROAD
L       ,  MAJOR RIVER CROSSINGS
RIVERS
38'                                                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~38'-
0   2   4   6   8  1 0  1 2  14  1 6
KILOMETERS
A< b.      A-  lhn dy I
nIl- n'''"
5 E A                                                                                                                                           j_4 T*-  'rAthens
OLYMPIA  ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ AP REA                     J~O       -
ROJIT RAk n                                    cN
To Tnpolis        S                                     N6
,                      ~~~~~21016'                                  T9 -          O    Kalamata__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



