Document of
FILE COPY                             The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-1796-GR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
HELLENIC STATE
FOR A
HIGHWAY PROJECT
March 24, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its coitents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit                                 Drachma
The Greek Drachma is now defined in terms of a basket of
currencies including the US dollar and those of its other major
trading partners, and is floating. For this report the following
currency equivalents were used:
Dr. 1                                         US$0.03
US$1                                          Dr. 35
Dr. 1,000                                     US$28.57
Dr. 1,000,000                                 US$28,571
Fiscal Year                   January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations
MCP                           Ministry of Coordination and Planning
MPW                           Ministry of Public Works
TCC                           Transport Coordination Committee



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE HELLENIC STATE FOR A HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Hellenic State for the equivalent of US$30 million, to help finance
the foreign exchange cost of a highway project. The loan would have a term
of 15 years including 4 years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2 percent per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects
of Greece" (810a-GR), dated November 17, 1975, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on December 3, 1975. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Recent Developments
3.        Following tha Cyprus crisis in July 1974, the seven-year old mili-
tary regime was replaced by an interim civilian Government. In November 1974,
an elected Government, backed by a large parliamentary majority, was estab-
lished. In December 1974, the Greeks voted to establish a republic. A new
constitution, establishing a parliamentary system with a strong presidency,
was approved in June 1975. The first President was elected shortly thereafter
by the required two-thirds majority of Parliament. The Government, besides its
concern with the re-esi:ablishment of democracy, has focused efforts on foreign
policy issues, particu:Larly relations with Turkey and Europe; and on economic
issues, specifically the need to restore and broaden international economic
relations especially with the EEC, which has accepted Greece's application for
full membership, as we-l as inflation, a growing balance of payments deficit
and stagnating economic activity.
4.        Throughout the 1960's and up to 1972, the Greek economy enjoyed rapid
GDP growth averaging 7, 9 percent per year in real terms. The main stimulus came
from rapidly rising domestic demand, stemming from large increases in private
housing investment and public infrastructure investment. Private consumption
rose at a rate of 8 percent per annum and gross fixed capital formation at 11
percent over this period. This growth was associated with relatively stable
prices.  However, by the end of 1972, as the economy reached full employment,
supply constraints began to develop and domestic prices came under increasing
pressure. The inflationary trend was reinforced by the termination of price
controls in 1973 and by increases in import prices, particularly of petroleum
(after October 1973), higher agriculture support prices and increased Government
expenditures. Consumer prices, which had increased by less than 3 percent per
annum (on an annual average basis) in the previous five years, rose 16 percent
This document has a restricied distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



in 1973 and 27 percent in 1974. Government measures, including reduced bud-
getary outlays and restrictive monetary policies, succeeded for a time in
sharply reducing the price increases. The restrictive policies, together with
the impact of the Cyprus crisis and resulting domestic political uncertainties,
severely affected economic growth. GDP which had increased by nearly 9 percent
in 1973, declined by about 2 percent in 1974. Based on trends in the first
few months of 1975, the Government estimates that, at best, GDP grew slightly
in 1975, over the depressed 1974 levels.
5.        Agriculture and industry are the key economic sectors.     Agriculture
still accounts for about 17 percent of GDP, 40 percent of employment and 35
percent of all exports, besides providing raw materials for the food process-
ing and textile industries. Agricultural production has increased by about
3 percent per annum since 1965, well below overall GDP growth and reflecting
lower output in both 1968 and 1973, due mainly to unfavorable weather condi-
tions and poor performance in the livestock subsector. However, following an
increase in support prices in October 1973, and with favorable weather, output
increased by a record 13 percent in 1974. Growth in agriculture continues
to be hampered by insufficient development of irrigation, the small size and
fragmented nature of farm holdings, and inadequate extension services.
6.         Industry, including construction, has been the most dynamic sector,
with an average annual growth of nearly 10 percent since 1960. Industrial
value added increased by 13 percent in 1973, but dropped by almost 6 percent
in 1974 due to the general recession in the country. Industry's share of GDP
increased from nearly 29 percent in 1965 to 36 percent in 1974. The share of
manufactured goods in total exports also increased sharply, from 25 percent in
1968 to 45 percent in 1974, largely as a result of increased capacity in the
chemical and basic metal industries. Despite rising productivity, however,
Greek industrial growth is still restricted by a small domestic market, limited
export orientation, inappropriate plant size and heavy dependence on capital
goods imports. The Government's emphasis on industrial development as a key
to rapid growth is well justified. However, there is a clear need for Govern-
ment guidance in determining priorities for future industrial growth, which can
take advantage of a relatively inexpensive and moderately skilled labor force,
through an emphasis on highly productive export oriented industries and consumer
goods for the domestic market.
Balance of Payments
7.        Recent economic difficulties have been compounded by a deteriora-
tion of the balance of payments in the last two years. The trade deficit
stood at $1.6 billion in 1972. It increased sharply to $2.8 billion in 1973
as imports grew rapidly, reflecting domestic supply constraints. In 1974, the
import bill increased only moderately, as non-oil imports reflected the decline
in GDP. The increase in net petroleum imports was $360 million, equivalent t.)
11 percent of 1973 exports of goods and non-factor services and workers' remit-
tances.  Rapidly rising exports and the reduced demand for imported goods pre-
ven.td a further rise in the trade deficit.    While expnrls, particularly of



- 3 -
manufactured products, have grown by about 25 percent per annum between 1968
and 1974, they still finance only about one-third of commodity imports. In-
visible earnings, mainly from shipping, workers' remittances and tourism, have
usually been equivalent to nearly half of commodity imports. In 1974, however,
this proportion declined to 35 percent, reflecting lower tourism receipts -
largely because of the Cvprus crisis - and a decline in workers' remittances
due to reduced demand for foreign workers in Europe. Preliminary results for
1975 show some recovery of workers' remittances and tourism receipts, but a
decline in shipping earnings reflecting depressed world trade.
8.        As a result of these developments, the current account: deficit
increased threefold from about $0.4 billion in 1972, to some $1.2 billion
in both 1973 and 1974. Greece has had very limited access to long-term for-
eign capital, and inflows of concessional funds have been minimal. As a
result, the Government had no alternative but to meet these shortfalLs es-
sentially through medium and short-term borrowing on rather expensive terms
from whatever Eurocredit sources were willing to provide such financial and
suppliers' credits. The terms of borrowing therefore deteriorated noticeably
in 1973 and 1974, reflecting both higher interest rates and declining grace
periods. The Government was able to borrow somewhat greater amounts in 1974
and 1975 on these terms than it managed to do in 1973. Foreign exchange re-
serves were about $1 billion in 1972 (4-1/2 months of imports); however, be-
cause of the increased current account deficit and rising amortization on
external debt, they declined to about $930 million (less than 2--1/2 months of
imports) at the end of 1974 and were at the same level at the end of 1975.
Prospects
9.        In view of the changed economic circumstances, the Government is for-
mulating a new medium-term development plan to articulate investment priorities,
economic policies and strategies. The crucial elements of its strategy are al-
ready apparent: to control inflation but consistent with policies to stimulate
growth, reduce dependence on agricultural and petroleum imports, promote in-
dustrial and agricultural exports and slow down housing investment.
10.       Greece faces significant economic problems.     In the short-term, the
Government may experience difficulties in striking the right balance between
measures to restore aggregate purchasing power and regenerate growth on the
one hand, and those to ensure relative price stability and external balance on
the other. The Government initially aimed at keeping price increases below 10
percent in 1975, but the actual rise was 15.5 percent despite the measures
taken. Given the immediate priority the Government accords to stabilization,
GDP growth in 1976 is likely to be modest, and might enable Greece only to
reach again this year., the GNP per capita it enjoyed already in 1973. Heavy
dependence on imports., especially for capital goods, and the vulnerability of



. l;li½gs frrton s11ipping, tourism arnd worker;' renittanlces also pose serious
-iort-term problems. Even after taking into consideration available undis-
*!rsed Loan funds, access to IMF funds and other sources, Greece will have to
vr-rrow l significant amount on world capital markets and wiLl need to obtain
l; 2rQat a proportion in long-term funding as possible.
II.       Although Greece's econonmy is approaching a more advanced stage of
Tevelopment, like many developing countries it suffers from significant regional
income disparities, and from the underdevelopment of certain key sectors like
agriculture.   Furthermore, the economy has to prepare itself to face increasing
competition from imports as tariff barriers are gradually reduced under the
Association Agreement with the EEC and later under the arrangements for full
membership. However, given the level of economic development already achieved,
the potential for a long term (1976-1985) GDP growth rate of around 5 percent
per annum seems to exist. This rate is feasible, provided there is reasonable
growth in agriculture, relative price stability, the predicted recovery from
recession in the economies of Greece's major trading partners, and availability
of capital from foreign markets of the magnitude needed on a sufficiently
long-term basis. Continuing expansion of manufacturing industry at about 10
percent per annum will also be necessary to achieve the potential growth rate.
Participation in the EEC should foster improved management and technological
modernization. Greece has important assets in its flexible, market-oriented
entrepreneurial capacity and a comparatively cheap labor force by European
standards. However, full utilization of these assets will require increased
investment in agriculture, in export-oriented industries, and the introduction
of effective vocational, technical and managerial training.
12.       Public external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1974
amounted to $2.0 billion. Debt service payments in 1974 reached $330 million
(of which $8.1 million was on Bank loans), and represented 8.2 percent of re-
ceipts from exports of goods and non-factor services and workers' remittances.
Based on reasonable expectations regarding export growth and future borrowing,
the debt service ratio would increase to about 13-14 percent by 1980. About
3 percent of total service payments would be due to the Bank. In view of the
good prospects for future economic growth, even if at a lower rate than in the
past, Greece remains creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GREECE
13.       Bank lending to Greece started in 1968, after disputes in connec-
tion with the country's pre-war external debt had been substantially settled.
Greece has received eleven loans totaling $273.9 million (net of cancella-
tions), of which $250.8 million was held by the Bank as of February 29, 1976.
These include five loans totalling $96.6 million to the National Investment Bank
for Industrial Development (NIBID), three loans for education ($82.3 million),



and three loans for irrigation ($95 million). The irrigation projects in-
clude a $40 million loan made earlier in this fiscal year for the East Vermion
Irrigation Project. The execution of Bank-financed projects has generally been
satisfactory, although slow and subject to significant cost overruns due to both
domestic and international inflationary pressures. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of February 29, 1976.
14.       Bank assistance to Greece aims:    at supporting institutional reform
and essential infrastructure in key sub-sectors, including irrigation, sewerage/
wastewater disposal, and highways; at modernizing key sectors such as agricul-
ture and education; and at reducing regional income and social disparities
through support for selected regional or rural development programs. The Bank
acted as executing agency for UNDP-financed highway reconnaissance and feasibi-
lity studies which led to the proposed highway project. A sewerage/ wastewater
disposal project, emphasizing institution-building, which will also improve
living conditions in towns outside the highly developed Athens area, has been
appraised. It is likely to be ready for Board consideration in the first half
of FY77. A fourth education project consolidating the important institutional
base being gradually developed through earlier projects, is under preparation.
Other projects - including one for regional development and another for rural
development - in two of Greece's backward regions, are being prepared for
lending in subsequent fiscal years.
15.       Although Greece has a much higher average per capita income than
that enjoyed by most other developing countries, continued Bank lending for
a limited time is justified in view of the following two important considera-
tions. First, given the magnitude of its external capital requirements, it
will be difficult for Greece to meet its borrowing needs for development on
reasonable terms entirely from market sources, particularly in view of the
country's short and medium term economic difficulties and prospects noted
above. Continued Bank lending will not only provide some modest direct as-
sistance, but also have a catalytic effect in augmenting Greece's access to
capital markets. Seccnd, Greece still faces large pockets of poverty and
serious regional imbalances in incomes and development, and needs assistance
in modernizing some of its key sectors. The Government particularly wishes
the Bank to play a role in helping reduce these regional and income dispari-
ties, and in assisting those sectors which are critical for strengthening the
country's economic potential and for which the Bank is probably the only
present source of external funds. It is, however, anticipated that Greece
will be able to finance its development program without resort to Bank funds
within a few years.
16.       IFC has made investments totalling $16.1 million in six Greek com-
panies. An equity and loan investment of $0.6 million was made in a fertilizer
factory in 1962 (sold in 1970); an equity investment of $0.7 million in NIBID
in 1965 (reduced to $0.1 million in 1974); loan and equity investments total-
ling $8.7 million in an aluminum company in 1970 and 1972. In early 1975, IFC
invested $1.1 million in an agro-industry project in Larisa for processing of
tomatoes, and at later stages, asparagus and peaches from the area of the
Groundwater Development Project assisted by the Bank (Loan 754-GR).



- 6 -
PART III - TRANSPORTATION IN GREECE
General
17.       The transport infrastructure of Greece comprises 40,200 km of roads,
2,600 km of railways, 18 main ports and 30 airports - of which 9 handle inter-
national traffic. The mountainous nature of the country, its 15,000 km long
coastline with almost 20 percent of the land area dispersed among many small
islands, and the large part of the population living in small villages, ex-
plain the natural predominance of road transport and shipping. Of the total
freight ton-km currently transported inside the country, an estimated 55 per-
cent is carried by road and 30 percent by sea. The north-south transport
corridor connecting Athens and Thessaloniki and the east-west transport cor-
ridor connecting Athens and Patras in the Peloponnese, are the main arteries
of the transport system. Both corridors are served by road, coastal shipping,
railway and civil aviation. Shipping services meet the demand for transport
between the islands and the mainland; besides this, more than 95 percent of
imports and exports are transported by sea. The extent of the transport
infrastructure is generally adequate in relation to Greece's present level
of development.
Transport Planning and Coordination
18.       Long-term transport policy aims at the creation of a system at
minimum cost, which can meet the increased transport demand resulting from
economic growth through the establishment of: (i) the necessary arteries
connecting the large urban centers, industrial areas, and surrounding regions
and principal agricultural areas ; (ii) a provincial road network connecting
smaller communities with the urban centers, which provide them with markets
and the necessary social services; and (iii) more effective connections
between Greece and the rest of the world.
19.       Planning in the transport sector is presently done by the agencies
responsible for the various modes. Over the past decade, these agencies have
studied a number of transport projects and increasingly use feasibility studies
of large or complex projects as a basis for investment decisions. Minor proj-
ects, including highway improvements and maintenance works, however, are not
subject to formalized planning. Although there is a need for coordination
among the various agencies and modes in the transportation field, there is
no central authority capable of setting inter-modal priorities and planning
development. Coordination is presently the responsibility of the Ministry of
Coordination and Planning (MCP), which has limited staff for this purpose. The
Government considers that a re-evaluation of the present system and its
development is needed.
20.       The immediate priorities are therefore:   (a) the establishment of a
national transport coordinating mechanism; and (b) a review of the strategy
for transport development. The MCP and the Ministry of Public Works (MPW)
established an ad hoc interdepartmental working group in 1972 to monitor
investment studies in the highway sub-sector.   The Government now intends to
expand the working group into a permanent transport coordination committee,
extending its scope to cover all modes of transport. This committee would
then review Greece's transport development strategy.



Transport Sub-Sectors other than Highways
21.       The railway system is controlled by the publicly owned Hellenic Rail-
way Organization and comprises about 2,500 km of railways lines. Sixty-two
percent of these lines are standard gauge railway from Athens to Thessaloniki
and on to the borders with Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and Turkey. The remaining 38
percent are meter gauge lines. Both domestic and international hauls are
short (less than 250 km on average). Railway traffic has increased slowly
in recent years, reflecting the low level of service offered by this mode.
22.       The whole railway system needs substantial technical and institutional
modernization and improvement, particularly if it is to play its role in of-
fering an essential north-south rapid transit axis for goods, linking the
Athens-Thessaloniki corridor to Europe. Studies carried out in 1971-73 by
the French consultant Sofrerail, recommended major improvements of main lines
and gradual closure of the meter gauge system which is uneconomic. Taking these
recommendations into account, the Government recently approved a Dr. 10 billion
($300 million) 5-year plan for improving Greek railways. This plan envisages
major improvements to the Athens-Thessaloniki and Athens-Corinth lines (electri-
fication and straightening of the track to permit higher speeds) and purchase of
rolling stock and equipment.
23.       Greece has 10 general cargo ports each handling more than 100,000
tons annually. In addition, there are 8 specialized terminals for petroleum
products, coal, bauxite and iron ore. Greek ports are controlled by the Minis-
try of Merchant Marine. In 1973, total freight handled amounted to 57.8 million
tons. Annual growth since 1965 has averaged 13.6 percent for domestic traffic
and 14.4 percent for international traffic. The most important ports are
Piraeus and Thessaloniki, where large expansions and introduction of more cargo
handling equipment are needed. These two ports together handled about 6 million
passengers and 17 million tons of cargo in 1973. The Government is reviewing
the possibility and economic advantages of developing other smaller ports. To
further reduce the future pressures on the two major ports, ensure efficient
national planning on all economic basis in this sub-sector, and put port opera-
tions on a financially efficient basis, the Government is also considering a
national ports master iolanning study.
24.       Greece has 31) civil airports, 9 of which accommodate international
flights. The civil aviation system is controlled by the Civil Aviation Author-
ity, under the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Traffic increased by
18 percent annually from 1966 to reach 9.3 million passengers in 1973. The
Athens airport handled 65 percent of passenger traffic and 78 percent of freight
traffic in that year. The Greek commercial carrier, Olympic Airways, was taken
over by the Government, at the owner's request, in January 1975.
The Highway Sub-Sector
25.       The highway network in Greece is used by over 600,000 vehicles
(buses, trucks and cars). Of the classified highway network of about



- 8 -
40,200 km, only about 17,900 km are paved. Of the latter, about 8,500 km are
classified as national roads, the rest being provincial roads. A part of the
national road system has been built to very high multi-lane standards, while
the provincial network is of considerably lower standard. To serve present
and future traffic needs economically, improvements in a number of road
sections are required to remove capacity restraints and to by-pass villages
and towns causing serious bottlenecks. In addition, there is an urgent need
for a properly planned and economically implemented maintenance program for
the entire road network in Greece.
26.       Until recently, there was no systematic long-term planning of new
roads or road improvements based on traffic projections or economic priorities.
Roads have often been built or improved to standards not justified by traffic.
A UNDP-financed study carried out between 1972 and 1974 by the French consult-
ing firm of Ingeroute, with the Bank as executing agency, was the first attempt
at long-term planning and selection of roads for construction or improvement
on the basis of adequate feasibility studies. The Ingeroute study provided a
highway master plan for 1973-87, which included the proposed project road as
the highest-priority project. Short-term planning only of maintenance and minor
improvements has been carried out annually for budgeting purposes, and improve-
ments in short-term, and the introduction of long-term, maintenance planning are
needed. A Government-financed pilot maintenance study done between 1971 and
1973 by the Italian consulting firm Sauti constituted the first step towards
long-term planning of maintenance; the experience gained from this pilot proj-
ect forms the basis for the maintenance component of the proposed project.
27.       Road works are financed from the Government's current and investment
budgets.  In 1974, road expenditures totaled about Dr. 5.1 billion, as compared
with revenues from road user charges which totaled about Dr. 15.1 billion. The
latter are about 11 percent of the total Government revenue, which is close to
the European average.
28.       MPW is responsible for construction and maintenance works on all
national and provincial roads. Its Service of Transport Infrastructure Works
plans and supervises design, construction, and maintenance through its central
offices in Athens and seven regional offices. The present organization was
established in 1970. About 400 MPW staff are engaged on road works, of which
340 are in the field. While the qualifications of MPW staff are adequate,
training has been insufficient and has been confined to general seminars and
mostly short-term fellowships abroad for professional staff. There are no
programs specifically designed for training staff to fill particular positions,
or in management or planning techniques.
29.       Construction and most maintenance is done by contractors supervised
departmentally by MPW. Construction contracting procedures and the general
quality of construction and supervision are satisfactory. The Greek con-
tracting industry is competitive and no foreign firms are presently employed,
although there are no regulations preventing them from competing for contracts.



- 9 -
Maintenance however is unsatisfactory. Maintenance funds have fluctuated from
year to year and have been allocated erratically. The MPW staff, equipment
and workshops are insufficient for the limited volume of emergency maintenance
work that they currently do.   Most maintenance work is carried out under road
maintenance contracts that have inadequate specifications and are poorly super-
vised. There is no system of cost control for either force account or contract
works.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
30.       Although the possibility of a Bank-financed highway project in Greece
was discussed as early as December 1964, it was not until 1971 that Greece com-
menced the two studies, mentioned in paragraph 26 above, which form the basis
for the present project. The two-year Sauti maintenance study, for which the
Bank also provided advice, resulted in the establishment of a pilot maintenance
program in the Epirus region. In turn, this operation highlighted the need for
improved planning of road maintenance, as well as the advantages of doing routine
maintenance by force account instead of by contract. The Government wishes to
use the experience gained from the Epirus pilot program to develop a program and
organization for road maintenance and improvement for all national and provin-
cial roads.
31.       The Ingeroute study complemented the Sauti study in developing Greece's
capacity to plan for a rational allocation of funds in the highway sub-sector.
The Ingeroute study i,dentified four priority road investments, with the highest
priority accorded to the improvement of the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road included
in the proposed project. The Government had however been considering the con-
struction of an expressway parallel to the alignment now proposed, and initial-
ly asked the Bank to consider financing construction of the other priority
roads identified by Iageroute.   The study had examined the expressway, a
costly solution, and found its construction at this time not justified. After
considerable dialogue and consultation with the Bank, the Government decided
to improve the existing road to the standards justified by anticipated traffic.
32.       In general, the two studies confirmed the weaknesses in planning in
the highway sub-sector noted in paragraph 26 above, which in the past had meant
that the most economic solutions to road construction and maintenance had often
been precluded. The Government thus requested that the Bank assist with a proj-
ect which would not only include the construction of a better-planned road and
the establishment and implementation of an improved maintenance program, but
would also assist with institutional reforms in road and transport planning.
The Government and the Bank reached agreement on the scope of a suitable proj-
ect in August 1975, and this was followed by its preparation by the Government.
The project was appraised in December 1975. Negotiations were held in Washington
in March 1976 with a Greek delegation led by Mr. Petros Papadakis, Director
General of MCP.



- 10 -
Project Concept and Description
33.       The concept and details of the proposed project are amplified in the
"Staff Project Report on Appraisal of a Highway Project - Greece" (No. 1014a-
GR), dated March 24, 1976, and in the Loan and Project Summary provided as
Annex III. The proposed project, in addition to assisting with the needed
construction and improvement of a major road, has as a key objective, the ini-
tiation of institutional reforms in the transport sector in general, and in
the highway sub-sector in particular, to maximize the benefits that Greece can
derive from its highway system. To support these objectives, the proposed
project includes the creation of a national transport coordination committee
(TCC) to assist the Government in establishing overall transport sector in-
vestment priorities and policies; the construction and improvement of a high-
priority road designed to economically justified standards; the establish-
ment, training and equipping of an effective maintenance organization to
develop and implement an adequate and economically sound highway maintenance
program, and the carrying out of feasibility studies.
34.       The proposed project thus includes:
(a) construction and improvement, and related supervision, of
the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road;
(b) technical assistance to MPW for: (i) the development and
implemention of an organization and program for improved main-
tenance and maintenance planning procedures; and (ii) co-
ordination of feasibility studies;
(c) purchase of road maintenance and workshop equipment and
spare parts for routine maintenance of paved national
roads;
(d) feasibility studies of selected road sections (totaling
295 km);
(e)  fellowships abroad for MPW senior and middle management; and
(f) technical assistance to MCP for the establishment of the
modus operandi and initial activities of a secretariat for
the Transport Coordination Committee.
Annex IV summarizes the key events leading to appraisal and Board presentation,
special Bank actions required for implementing the proposed project, and the
special conditions provided in the Loan Agreement.
35.       Construction of the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road will provide a 100
km improved link in the main road connection of the Western Peloponnese (Map
IBRD 12023). The proposed road generally follows an existing two-lane road,
but diverges from its alignment in over 65 percent of its length. The exist-
ing road has a poor riding surface and carries both agricultural traffic and
general traffic from villages and urban ribbon development through which it



- 11 -
passes. When the new road is opened, the existing one will continue to serve
local traffic and provide access to the new facility. The Government has
agreed to construct the new road to design standards justified by anticipated
traffic, including a 30 km/h design speed. The road will be a two-lane car-
riageway, with surface dressed shoulders for slow-moving agricultural traffic
on the Patras-Pyrgos section. Supervision of construction will be carried out
by a regular MPW contract construction supervision team.
36.       The most substantial institution-building effort under the project
is directed towards improvement of road maintenance and minor betterment of
existing roads in Greece. As noted in paragraph 29 above, the present system is
unsatisfactory in many respects. The Government wishes to develop a program and
organization for improved maintenance for all national and provincial roads in
Greece. It will start, under the project, with the routine maintenance of the
paved national road network (about 8,500 km). At present, MPW does not have an
organization for planning or implementing force account road maintenance, nor
does it have the required equipment. The Government has agreed that MPW will,
as a condition of making the proposed loan effective, establish a maintenance
organization comprising separate maintenance sections in each of its 52 district
engineer's offices, backing these up with appropriate adjustments to its regional
and central administrations, and appoint the staff initially needed (Loan
Agreement Sections 4.03, 5.01 and Schedule 5). Subsequently, the Goverment
intends to expand this new organization, in appropriate phases, to provide
effective and economic maintenance for the entire national and provincial road
network (40,200 km), on the basis of the recommendations of the consultants
mentioned in paragraph 37 below.
37.       The proposed project will provide equipment for the initial phase of
routine maintenance of paved national roads. The Government and the Bank have
agreed on the list of equipment, which was chosen to meet the requirements for
1977 derived on the basis of the Epirus pilot study results. The Government
has agreed to maintain its paved roads adequately, and to maintain, repair and
renew its maintenance equipment and workshops as necessary. The project would
also provide technical assistance required to implement the initial phase of
force account maintenance. Specifically, it provides about 170 man-months of
consulting services to MPW to assist it in: (a) deploying and operating the
equipment provided under the project; (b) organizing and implementing main-
tenance of paved national roads by force account; (c) providing proposals for
an effective road maintenance organization within MPW; (d) developing planning
procedures and providing a plan for the efficient maintenance of roads in
Greece, as well as the first three annual progressive five-year programs of
priority maintenance and rehabilitation works together covering the years
1977-83; and (e) drawing up a program for the effective development of the
initial organization to enable it to execute this plan, including required
training, operating procedures, and documentation. The consultants will also
study the experience gained through the Epirus pilot maintenance program and
advise on incorporation of its procedures, where applicable, into the nation-
wide program. The Government has agreed to consult the Bank with respect to
the consultants' recommendations for adapting its road management and opera-
tions to serve the entire national and provincial networks, ancl thereafter to
implement those recommendations on which both agree. These consultants will



- 12 -
also assist MPW in organizing and supervising the feasibility studies de-
scribed below. The Government has agreed to hire the consultants to MPW by
December 31, 1976, and has already reached an understanding with the Bank on
their terms of reference.
38.       The proposed project includes feasiblity studies of three road
segments totaling 295 km. These have been chosen on the basis of both
priority projects identified in the above noted Ingeroute study (paragraph
26) and the Government's regional development priorities. They also exhibit
unusual complexity, and the Government needs to know the economic and tech-
nical consequences of various alternatives before financing construction from
its own resources. It is expected that Greek consultants will participate
in the studies, with assistance from foreign experts in specific disciplines
to the extent these disciplines are not available locally. The project pro-
vides about 40 man-months for the latter. The consultants mentioned in
paragraph 37 will assist MPW in: (a) preparing detailed terms of reference
for the consultants to carry out the feasibility studies; (b) selecting and
supervising these consultants; and (c) reviewing their recommendations.
39.       The project also provides for about 240 man-months of fellowships
abroad for training MPW senior and middle management in road management and
planning techniques. The Government and the Bank have reached an under-
standing on the number of fellowships, the subjects to be studied, and that
the fellowships will last from five to fifteen months each and be spread over
three years so as not to disrupt MPW's operations. The Government has agreed
to forward a list of candidates and their detailed proposed training programs
to the Bank for approval before awarding the fellowships.
40.       As mentioned earlier (paragraph 20), an ad hoc interdepartmental
working group has been monitoring investment studies in the highway sub-sector
since 1972. The Government has decided to transform this group into a perma-
nent committee responsible for all modes of transport. The committee would
consist of senior officials of each of the Ministries and agencies responsible
for the transport sector; be chaired by one of its members appointed by the
Minister of Coordination and Planning; meet at least once every three months;
and advise the Minister of Coordination and Planning (who is responsible for
the investment budget) on investment priorities in the transport sector and on
transport policies which might require legislative action. A permanent
secretariat under a senior official will be established in MCP to assist the
committee; at least four full-time specialists in the technical, economic,
financial and legal aspects of the various transport modes will be appointed
initially to the secretariat. Under the instructions and supervision of the
committee, the secretariat will initiate systematic planning in the transport
sector, including the survey of transport conditions, needs and regulations
and the analysis of transport investments and policies in order to ensure that
they are responsive to the country's economic development requirements and
priorities in the transport sector. The Government and the Bank have agreed
on the above arrangements for the composition and staffing of the committee
and the secretariat and on their objectives. Establishment of both the
committee and the secretariat would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposeu loan (Loan Agreement Sections 4.05, 5.01 and Schedule 5).



- 13 -
41.       The project provides about 100 man-months of consulting services to
assist the secretariat, and strengthen its capabilities, during its first two
years of existence in: (a) the review of all recent studies, current policies
and plans of Greece relating to the transport sector, including the relevant
sections of the 1976-1981 five-year development plan; (b) the identification
of the major areas of data insufficiency and preparation of detailed arrange-
ments for the collection of all such data and other relevant information
necessary for the secretariat to carry out its functions; (c) the identifica-
tion and preliminary analysis of principal problem areas in the transport
sector and submission of recommendations for the solution of these problems;
(d) the preliminary technical and economic evaluation of priority programs
and projects in the transport sector; and (e) the formulation of the elements
and procedures of transport sector planning and the detailing of the meas-
ures and information required for initiating such planning. The secretariat
will, as mentioned above, initiate such planning on the basis of this work
and in accordance with its capabilities as strengthened during these first two
years. To this end, the consultants will also provide on-the-job training of
staff of the secretariat, as well as recommend training programs for them in
disciplines within the secretariat's responsibility.
42.        The Government has agreed that the secretariat will evaluate the
capabilities it has developed, and prepare recommendations for such further
action as is necessary for the committee to carry out its functions, by
December 31, 1978; and that after consulting with the Bank, it will put
into effect those recommendations on which both agree (Loan Agreement Sec-
tion 4.05).
Project Cost and Financing
43.       The total estimated cost of the project is US$64.7 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange component of $30 million.
US$ Million
Local    Foreign     Total
Construction                                            15.8       8.2       24.0
Supervision of Construction                              0.9         0        0.9
Right-of-Way and Land Acquisition                        2.6         0        2.6
Procurement of Highway Maintenance Equipment             1.4      10.3       11.7
Technical Assistance to MPW                              0.7       1.4        2.1
Feasibility Studies of 3 Selected Roads                  0.5       0.3        0.8
Fellowships for MPW                                        0       0.4        0.4
Technical Assistance to MCP                              0.4       0.8        1.2
Basic Project Cost                                      22.3      21.4       43.7
Physical Contingencies                                   2.3       2.1        4.4
Expected Price Increases                                10.1       6.5       16.6
TOTAL                                                 34.7      30.0       64.7
The cost estimates are based on the assumptions that for road construction work,
local contractors will win the bids, as they have for many years in Greece; MPW



- 14 -
will supervise construction; the maintenance equipment will be imported; con-
sultants providing technical assistance will be internationally selected and
are expected to be foreign, but with Greek nationals on their teams; and con-
sultants to do the feasibility studies will be Greek, supported by foreign
experts in specific disciplines where expertise is not available locally. In
estimating the costs of consulting services, man-month rates of $7,000 for
foreign consultants and $1,500 for Greek consultants were used. Physical con-
tingencies are estimated at 10 percent. Total price contingency allowances
have been estimated at 34 percent (28 percent on foreign costs and 41 percent
on local costs), based on the proposed implementation schedule. Annual price
increases assumed for civil works are 20 percent in 1976, 16 percent in 1977
and 14 percent in each of the following years; 10 percent in 1976 and 8 per-
cent in 1977 for equipment; and 14 percent in 1976, 12 percent in 1977 and
10 percent annually thereafter for consulting services and fellowships. For
civil works, the price contingencies are based on a comprehensive analysis of
trends in road construction costs between 1968 and 1973, prepared by the
Government and the consultants designing the road. For equipment, consulting
services and fellowships, the price contingencies are Bank estimates.
44.       The proposed loan of US$30 million equivalent will finance the for-
eign costs of the project and cover 46 percent of total project costs. The
Government will provide the local cost financing, as well as cover any unfore-
seen cost increases. The loan would be to the Hellenic State for 15 years,
including a four-year grace period.
Project Implementation
45.       Two Government Ministries will be responsible for project implementa-
tion: (a) MCP for transport coordination and planning; and (b) MPW for all
other project items. The Government has agreed to appoint a project co-
ordinator in MPW by September 30, 1976 to ensure coordination among the Gov-
ernment agencies concerned with the MPW parts of the project. About 310
man-months of consultant services are provided under the project to assist
in the execution of the various components. Implementation will commence in
1976 and is scheduled for completion by June 1980. The schedule for the dif-
ferent components is as follows: the detailed engineering of the Patras-
Pyrgos-Olympia road has already been completed by Greek consultants financed
by the Government. The Government has agreed that MPW will acquire the land
and right-of-way for the road as and when needed; this is expected to be done
under adequate existing legislation during 1976 before construction contracts
are let. Construction is expected to begin early 1977 and take three years.
The Government has proposed, and undertaken to introduce before construction
starts, satisfactory arrangements for MPW to supervise construction. Techni-
cal assistance to MPW is scheduled to begin late 1976 and end mid-1979. Tech-
nical assistance to MCP is expected to begin early 1977 and last two years.
Maintenance equipment is expected to be procured during the first half of
1977. The feasibility studies are expected to be carried out from late 1977
to early 1979. Fellowships for MPW staff are expected to be spread over the
three years starting late 1976.



- 15 -
Procurement
46.       The construction of the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road wiLl be carried
out by contract awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement". Prospective bidders will be
prequalified. The MPW proposes to divide the work into four contracts, each
of which will be for complete road works over consecutive design sections:
Patras-Lappa, Lappa-Pinios, Pinios-Pyrgos and Pyrgos-Olympia. The contracts
may be bid separately, or in any combination, and are expected to be between
US$3 million and US$10 million equivalent each.
47.       The road maintenance equipment will also be procured after interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Bidders
will not be prequalified, and will compete against minimum spec[fications
on the basis of cost, delivery time and reliability of subsequent dealer serv-
ice.  Local manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent
of CIF costs of competing imports or_ the existing rate of customs duty, which-
ever is the lower. Equipment contracts amounting to less than US$25,000 up
to an aggregate of US$400,000 will be let under prevailing Government procure-
ment procedures, whicbh involve advertisement and procurement locally after com-
petitive bidding and are satisfactory. The consulting services will be pro-
vided by consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference
will be satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursements
48.       Disbursements will be made for:   (a) 34 percent of construction costs,
representing the estimated foreign exchange component; (b) the actual foreign
exchange costs (CIF Greek port) of the road maintenance equipment and spares,
or 100 percent of the ex-factory price of Greek manufacturers in the unlikely
event that they win the bids; and (c) the actual foreign exchange costs of con-
sulting services and fellowships. Disbursements are expected to commence in
early 1977 and extend through December 1980. Should any funds remain in the
loan account after project completion, they would be used, after agreement
with the Bank, for the procurement of additional road maintenance equipment,
in accordance with the recommendations of the consultants providing technical
assistance to MPW.
Economic Analysis
49.       The proposed road will meet the growing transport demand in one
of the main agricultural areas in Greece, which includes the area served by
a Government-financed irrigation project presently under implementation. The
section between Patras and Pyrgos will serve as the main highway artery for
traffic between the northern and southern parts of western Peloponnese. Its
continuation from Pyrgos to Olympia will serve as a tourist access road to the
archaeological sites at Olympia. At the same time, the road will bypass 22
villages and towns which are bottlenecks on the existing road.
50.       The main direct benefits from road construction would be savings
in transport costs for highway users. The inhabitants of villages and towns



- 16 -
to be bypassed would obtain indirect benefits from avoidance of traffic noise,
exhaust pollution and accidents. Benefits from road construction have been
quantified as savings in vehicle operating costs from: (i) improved surface
condition of the road sections; (ii) avoided speed reductions through villages
and towns; and (iii) length reduction of the road sections. Of these savings,
60 percent will accrue to goods transport vehicles, 30 percent to public
passenger transport vehicles (buses and taxis), and 10 percent to private
cars. Other benefits not included are time savings of vehicle occupants other
than professional drivers, and the increased safety and comfort for both road
users and the inhabitants of the villages and towns bypassed. Benefits are
assumed to start immediately upon completion of road construction and to in-
crease with traffic. Based on a construction period of 3 years, an economic
life of 20 years and the estimated economic costs of project preparation, con-
struction and supervision, the overall economic return (ER) of road construc-
tion (which will cost $44.2 million) is estimated at 20 percent, with a first-
year return of 15 percent. The ERs of the Patras-Pyrgos and Pyrgos-Olympia
sections are estimated at 21 and 19 percent respectively. A sensitivity
analysis has also been carried out assuming an increase of 15 percent in
construction costs, and a decrease of up to 25 percent in benefits if traffic
growth is slower than presently projected. The results, presented in the Staff
Project Report, show that even under these most pessimistic assumptions, the
construction would yield an ER of 14 percent.
51.       Paved national roads in Greece generally provide considerably less
than their original levels of service. It is reasonable practice to maintain
the surface and drainage of paved roads to within about 85 percent of original
service levels, to prevent loss of benefits due to increasing vehicle operating
costs and an increase in road maintenance costs due to progressive structural
failures. Escalation of costs is considerable if maintenance is reduced below
these levels, and soon justifies the marginal expenditure on maintenance.
Routine maintenance of paved roads lends itself well to force account rather
than contract execution. This is because of the difficulties inherent in
effectively controlling and measuring this type of contract work and because
of contractors' profit and the cost of Government supervision. Procurement
of road maintenance and workshop equipment, including spare parts, under the
proposed project will allow MPW to carry out all routine maintenance of paved
national roads by force account instead of by contract by the end of 1977.
MPW estimates the average annual savings from using force account at about Dr.
170 million annually for the entire paved national road network. Based on an
average economic life of six years, which is appropriate for the types of
equipment to be provided, the ER from the equipment purchased (which will
cost $14.2 million) is estimated at 46 percent.
i2.       The average economic rate of return on these two components, which
account for 90 percent of total project cost, is 26 percent. Benefits from
the technical assistance and the feasibility studies are difficult to quantify.
However, these project elements are clearly justified, since they will assist
the Government in deriving substantial economic benefits from improving
highway maintenance, designing roads and improvements to standards justified
by projected traffic growth, making investments based on established economic
-LCrLtiJse. and strengthening planning and operations in the transport sector
a whole.



- 17 -
Conclusions, Recommendations and Loan Conditions
53.       Greece's t:ransport system has suffered in the past from uncoordi-
nated investment planning. In the highway sub-sector, roads have been often
built to standards in excess of those justified by traffic, while maintenance
has been neglected. The project represents an attempt on the part of the Gov-
erment to change long-established uneconomic practices and is fully consistent
with the Government's priorities and with Bank policies for the transport
sector. However, achievement of the project objectives depends on the Govern-
ment's implementing the agreed institutional changes in transport planning and
highway maintenance,, To ensure that the project road is built to appropriate
standards, these have been agreed upon and incorporated in the loan documents.
The broad features of the organizational arrangements and of the technical
assistance to be provided have also been agreed, and establishment of the
organizational arrangements constitutes the conditions of effectiveness of the
proposed loan.
54.       Nevertheless, as in all projects, there are risks.    While the Bank
has been given ample evidence during project preparation of the Government's
serious intention of changing its approach to highway investments, the diffi-
culties inherent in implementing any fundamental change of policy should not
be underestimated. Besides the risk of not achieving all the objectives of
the project, there -is the risk of delay in project execution, a problem faced
by other Greek projects. The project has, however, been designed to minimize
these risks. It is suitable for Bank financing through a loan to the Hellenic
State for 15 years including 4 years of grace.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Hellenic State and the Bank,
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of
the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approving the
proposed loan are be!ing distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
The draft agreement conforms generally to the normal pattern for loans for
highway projects.
56.       Special ccinditions of loan effectiveness are:   (a) establishment
and initial staffing of MPW's road maintenance organization (Loan Agreement
Section 5.01(a)); arnd (b) establishment of the Transport Coordination Commit-
tee and its Secretariat (Loan Agreement Section 5.01(b)).
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Arti-
cles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 24, 1976



NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to 19I9-1961, for 1970 to 1968-1970, and for Most Races,, Estioat.e to 1971-1973.
as The similarity of present French and Greel, economic structures makes France an appropriate ohbiective for the future of Greece.
GREECE             1960    /a  a960.-62;   /b   Excluding persons in compulsory military services;      /c  Excluding unemployed seamen;     /d  1957-58,
lrsiseholds `urba7;     /e  1962;    /f   Includirg midwives and nuirses with m'idwifery qualifications;    /A    Including
maternity hospitals;    7Lh  Teacher Fraining not included in secondary school enrollment;       /I  inside only.
1970    /a   1967.
MOST RECENT ESTDEATE:     /a  Excluding persona in compulsory military services and persona seeking jobs for the first tine;
/b  Excludi-ng unemp) cyed seamen;   /c   Personnel in goverronait services only.
SPAI'N             1970    Ia  Registered unemp.loyed;    lb  Registered, not all practicing in the country.
BEIGIUM4           1970    /a  Registwred unemployed only.
FRANCE             1970    Ia  Government hcmpital establishmnents only.
R6 January 30, 1976
DEFI'NrrIONS OF SOCIAL I2NDICATORS
Land Area (thoui kmo2                                                                  Population per nur'sin  prson - PopulAtion divided by nulmber of practicing
Total -Tot~al sur~face area comprising lankd area and inland waters,                     male and femle    radat   nurses, "-trained"- or "certified"- nurses, and
Arable -Most recent estimate of lend area used temporarily or permanently                auxciliary personnel with training or experience.
for cultivation, pastures, market and kitchEn gardens or to lie fallow.              Po     o    p   jal     e       oplto       ivddbanme         f   optlbed
a ilNiipublic and private general an~d specialized hospital sod
GNPeptopita jlS$) - (RIP per capita estimates at market prices, calcu-                   rehabilitation centers; excludes nursing homes mand establishments for
~~bysame~i   nversion method as World Bank Atlas (1972-74~ basis).                  custodial and preventive care.
Per capijta suppl of calories % ofreqieeta) - Computed frm. e.orgy
inadvtlstatistics                                                          eqiam       fnt fod suppis available in country per capita per clay;
Population (md-yr. moillion) - As of July first; if not available, average               available supplies romprise domestic production, imports less exports,
of two endi-year estimates,                                                            and changes in stock; net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds, quanti-
ties used in food proc essing and losses in distribution; requirements
Populat ion density -   r square k    Mid-year copulation per square kilo-               were estimated by FAG based on physiological needs for nornal activity
meter (100 hectares)of total    ears                                                   and health considering environmental temperature, body weights, age and
Population density _ per square Ian, of arable land - Computed as above for              sex distributions of population, and allowing 10% for waste at'household
acrable land only.                                                                     level.
Pe  aita supply ofprte I(grarm par day) - Protein content of per
Vital statistics                                                    ca~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~pita ne  upl  f odper day; niet supply of food is defined as
Crude birth .rate per thousand - Annual live births per thousand of mid-                 above; requirements for all countries established by USDA Economic
year pop    'Tion; usuallIy  ive-y'ear averages snding in 1960, 1970 and               Research Services provide for a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total
1975 for developing countries.                                                         protein per day, and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of wtiich 10
Crude death rate par thousand - Annual deaths )er thousand of mid-year                   gramns should be animal protein; thene standards are lower than thoae of'
p ultioln  uaually five-year averages endin? in 1960, 2970 and 1975                 75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an average
for developincg countries,                                                             for the world, proposeed by FAG in tIne Third World Food Survey.
Tnfant mnortality 0:rate (/thou) - Annual deaths of infants uinder one year            Per cap,itap   taein suply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
of age per thosand love births.                                                        de7rie   fr   m ails and pulses in grams per day.
LIie,exp%ctancy at b-ilryth1s) - Average nnrmbe- of years of life remain-              Dtrsatet (thou      agag1      Annual deaths per thousand xcn age group 1-h
I7(~iNTFfEiiiI.799     -year averages endLng in 1960, 1970 and                     ciiIU1Ij               E~ is age group; suggested as an indicator of a-l-
1975 for developing countries.                                                         nutrition.
9ros  reprdodution rate - Average number of livre daughters a woman will
G'obear inhe    ooml reproductive period if she, experiences present age-             Education
specifi' fertility rates; usually five-year atverages ending in 1960,                Adjusted enrollment rtio              e rmr  chool - Enrollment of all ages as
197Cc and 1975 for  eeoigcutis                                                         percentage o primr     school-age pouation; includes children aged
ps;.ulatio,c crouth rate (%  - total - Compound annual growth rates of mid-              6-11 years but adjuisted for different lengths of primary education;
year population for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 191,0 to moat recent year.                   for countries with universal education, enrollment may exceed 100%
.Popualtion crow-th rate 0%) -uba    - Computed Like growth rate of total                since some pupils are below or above the official school age.
population; differn    deiiins of urban apseas may affect compara-                   Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed us above; second-
b,lity of data among countries.                                                        ary education requires at least four- years of' approved primary instrulc-
Urcban poulatIon   % of toal) - Ratio of uriban to total population; dif-                tion; provides general, vocational or teacher training icstructisonc for
oern t'l Uin o:,i     ixi5an areas may affect comparability of, data                 pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
among countries,                                                                       excluded.
Ava structure p.ercent) - Children (0-li y.asra', working-age (15-64. years),          Years of schooling proided.(first ama secnd levels) - Tota2 y-ars of
andretred(65years and over) as percentage,s of mid-year population.                Schooling   aseonar      leve, -ocationaJ. instrution may be partially
A e d :end1enC  ratitl  Ratio of population und,,r lS and 65 and over to                 or completely excluded.
a,.   ges    through 64s.                                                        Vocational enrolmnt 0% of secondary) - Vocational instituitions mnclude
REcomi~c dependefncy ratio - Ratio of population under 19 andi 65 and over               techncl     insntral   o  other programs which operate Independently or
to the labor force in age group of 15-61. years.                                       as departments of secondary institutions.
Familyc planming - acceptors (cumulati.e, thou) - Cueolative number of                 Adult literacy rate (%) - Literate adults (able to read and writs) as per-
ac:ceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                  centage of total adult population aged 19 years and over,
planning program since inception.
faiy  nitne -  sers 0% of married women) - Percentages of married                 Housig
w."e  of chITdbaigaeItIi            ers     h   s   it-oto                           Person  pr room (avera e.) - Average number of persona per room in oc-upied
l'ic et: to all 'crried women tn, name age grocto.                                     conventionsl    a wligs in urban areas; dwellings exclude ceon-permanent
structures and unoccupied paLrts.
Fat]C ic',4n'                                                                          Occupied dwellins without piped water (%) - Occupied conventional dwell-
,al labor force (thousad) - Economically active persons, including                      ings in urban ancoa      area  withouit inside or outside piped water
armed forces and u    emlyed but excluding housewives, students, etc.;                 facilities as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
definitions in various countries are not comparable.                                 Access to electric t' %of      ' al  wllings) - Conventional dwellings with
abrforce or agriculture M      %)  Agricultural labor force (in farming,             electricity in living qurartersas percent of total dwellings in urban
frsr,hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force,                     and riural areas.
Unemloyd ( oflabor force) - Unemloyad are usually defined as per-                  Rura delingsconnected to electricity %         - Computed as above for rural
sons whoaraben, willing to take a job, outt of a job on a given                        dwlIngs     ny
day, remalined outf of a job, and seeking work for a specified minimum
period nct exceeding one week; may riot, be comparable between coun-                 Cons    tion
tries due to dc rferent definitions- of unemployed and source of data,                tR~     c      re(e     hou  o ) - All types of receivers for- radio broad-
e.g., employment office statistics, sample surveys, compulsory onme-                   casts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
ployment, insurance.                                                                    receivers in caantries and in years when registration of radio sets was
in effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most cocxn-
Income distribution - Percentage of private income (both in cash and                     tries abolished licenisinig.
kind) received by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest                  Pa:ngeca-r Passenger cars compri-se motor cars seating
4.0% of population.                                                                    lsthneghteperosde2jexcludes ambulan~ces, hearses and military
vehicles.
Dir,trio'rtion of l,andowneship   Percentages of land owned by wealthiest              Elcrc        Ph          cP    - Annual consumption of industrtal, conner-
IN% and poorest 10ofln         m era.                                                         Pu   c a p   il .4 fvsat electricity in kilowatt hours per capita; gen-
erally based on production data, without allowance for losses in grids,
Health_a_d___utritio_                                                                    but allowing for imports and experts of electricity.
Population per phys-ician - Population divided by, number of practicing                Newsprint (kg/yr per cap) - Per capita annual consumption in kilograma
pbyjsiciais qualified from a medical school at university level,                       estimated from domestic production pLus met imports of newsprint.



ANN EX I
TABLE 3A                         PaRe    1 of    5 Pages
GREECE              - SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA ITHOUtKZI                  -----------KI-------------------               
----------------                       GPEECE                             REFEPENCF COUNTRIES 41917)1
TOTAL       131.9                                    KMST RFCENT
ARABLE         .                       t96O      1970   fSTIMATE          SPAIN          RELGIIIM       FaAsC  t
rNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     490.0     1290.0      187;3.0            1260.0     3510.0     346 O.o
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION tMID-YR. MILLION)             8.3        8.8         9.0               33.6        3.7        SO.H
POPULAT ION DENS ITY
PER SQUARE Km.                        63.J       67.0        68.0               66.0      317.0        93.3
PEP CQUARf KM. 4RABLF LAND              ..
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDF BlIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND        1b.9       16.5        1S.5               19.6       14.7        16.7
CRUDE UFATHI RATE PER THOUSAND         7.3        8.4         8.6                8.s       12.1        10.7
INFANT MnREALITY RATE (ITHW'UI       40.1        29.6        27.8              27.9        21.1       l8.?
LIFF FXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRSJ        67.0        10.4       71.6               7L.0       7L.0        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                1.1         1.0        1.0                1.4        1.3         l.A
POPULATION GRnWTH RATF (1)
TOTAL                                  1.0        U.6         0.6                1.I        O.6         L.)
luRBAN                                 2.0        2.6          ..                2.0        4.6         2.0
URBAN POPULATInN 14 rF- TlEALI          j43.U      53.U        53.2               49.0       07.0        70.)
AGF STRUCTURE IPERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        26.7       24.9        24.9              21.8        26.1        24.)
15 Tn 64 YEARS                        65.1       64.0        63.9               62.5       63.0        b .0
65 YEARS ANn nvER                      8.2       11.1        11.2                9.s       13.3        13.4
AGE DEPENOENCY RATIO                     0.5        0.6        0.6                 0.6        0.6         0.6
FCONOMIC nEPFNnENCY RATIO                0.9         ..         1.0                1.1        0.9         0.9
FAMILY DLANNING-
ACCEPTnRS (CUMULATIVE. IHOU             ..         ..          ...
USERS It OF MARRIEn wnHEN)              ..         ..          ..
EmPLOYMENT
TnTAL LABOLR FORCE ITHOUSANI)         36UO.0 b        .. b300.0 /              11900.      bboO.)     2J l  J30
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE lI)          54.0         ..        40.0               24.8        5.0        15.l
UNEMPLOYEn It (IF LABOR FnRCF)           6.0 d        ..        3.0                2 2.0^     3.0 /a      2.2
INCOME DISTRIEUTION
. nF PRIVATE INCnME RECO bY-
HIGHEST   St nF POPULATION            Ia.? /d      ..          ..
HIGHFST 20t IF POPULATION             44.7         *           ...
LnWSFT 201 rOF POPJLATIne              6.3 LA      ..          ..
LOiESF 401 rF PnPUtATlilN             17.4          ..         ..
0ISTRIBLUTION (IF LANn) OwNERSHIIP
I COWNED  Y T0P 107 'I- '.oNE0S           ..         ..        27.5
t OWNrD RY S4ALLFST 101T 'INFRS           ..         ..         2.o
HEALTH AND NUTRIT ION
POPULATION PER PHYSILIAN               790.0 /a   620.0       600.0              750.0/b    o5U.J       7so..
POPULATION PFP NOIISING P-RSnk        1260.a 7;i f 1141U.    I 5jO.Otc          14j0.0       .1).J      370 )
POPUlLATION P1R HOSPITAL bEn           170.;0 =    !60.J      160.U              220.0      1..j.J      140.0 /a
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES IT 0l REQIJIREMENTS)        120.0       116.3      128.0              107.0      I2.0        l7..)
PROTTIN IGRAMS PER DAY)               99.0       99.0       113.0               u1.0      69.J        104.U
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          39.3 /     52.3 /a      ..               4 ).a      5..)       66.J
DEATH RAIF I /THOU) A rCS 1-4             ..         ..         0.9                0.9        U. 0. a
PDUCATIOLN
ADJUSTEO ENROLLMENT RATIr
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       '09.3      '30.0          ..               11.0      111.0       l1.0
SrCONOARY SCHOOL                      39.0       6J.0          ..              49.0        44.0        73.0
YEARS IF SCHOOLING PROVIUEDI
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       1?.0        12.0               13.0       I-J         14.0
VOCATIONAL FbROLLMFNT
IX OF SECnNDARY)                      L1.3 /A    20.0        22.0              20.0        6l.3       '3.J
AOULT LITFRACY RATF II)                 80.0       82.0          ..                4.0       99.0        99.0
HOIISING
PERSnNS PER ROOM IAVFRAGEI               1.4          ..        0.9                 ..        0.6         U.9
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS wiTHnUT
PIPEn WATER IX)                       71.0 /i      ..        35.0                 ..       [j.0          .
ACCFSS TO ELECTRICITY
It OF ALL DWELLINGSI                  53.0         ..        97.0                .9 9.                69.0
RIIRAL DWELLINGS CONNFCTED
TO ELECTRICITY I1)                    14.0                   7.0 °9.)                                  98.
CONSUMPTI ON
RADIn RECEIYERS (PEA THrIl POPi         85.0       111.8         ..              214. a       0j.0      314.0
PASSENGFR CARS IPER THOu PnP)            5.0       26.0        39.0               70.0      21j.0       254.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           274.0     I0C2.0      1286.0             16d7.0     3457.)      2759.8
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAPI                2.6         3.6        5.9                5.8       18.6        11.9
------------------------------------------------------------.------__--------__------------------------------
SE NOTES AND DEFINEITIrNS n0l REVFRSE
/ This is based on the revised Atlas methodology, and compares to the figure of
$1670 calculated on the basis of the peevious methodology.



Page 2 of S
GREECE: ECONOMIC DEVELOPY1ENT DATA
Annual Growth Rates
ActualW2  lt)         R-tinated                  irolected                 1961-    1973-    1974-     1975
1965     12        193       1974      195      1976      1977       10         195      97       174      1975      1985
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(Canatant 1973 billien Dr.)
GDP (n.p.)                                 256.0    436.1     471.1     4S2.1     452.1    463.4      481.9     568.1      753.3     7.9     -4.0       0.0      5.2
Gates fron Te-ns of Trade                   +1.8    + 0.8       -         -2.2     -1.7     -2.4      -1.5       -2.4       -3.5
Gross Don-eti lecome                       257.8    436.9     471.1     449.9     450.4    461.0      480.4     565.7      749.8     7.8     -4.5       1.0      5.2
E.ports (S + nf)                            27.6     71.6      79.1      83.8      89.1     95.5      103.0     131.7      200.2    14.0      5.9       6.3      8.4
Imports (g + efs)                          -52.4   -107.5    -134.8    -124.2    -127.1   -128.3    -133.3     -161.2      220.8    12.5     -7.9       2.3      5.7
Resource Balance                           -24.8    -35.9     -55.7     -40.4     -38.0    -32.8     -30.3      -29.5      -20.6
Invnnrnent                                  70.2    158.7     153.4     103.0     103.0    105.7     109.9      129.7      172.0    10.2    -32.9       0.0      5.1
Cooenaption                                212.4    344.1     374.4     387.3     385.4    398.1     400.8      465.5      598.4     7.3      3.4     -O.5       4.1
Domestic Savings                            45.4     92.8      97.7      62.6      66.7     6S.3      81.1      io2.6      154.9    10.0    -35.9       6.6      8.8
Nation-l Saviigs                            48.4    102.3     108.9      74.4      73.6     77.9      85.1      103.5      153.2    10.7    -31.7      -1.1      7.6
GOP (at current n.p.)                      175.7    367.2     471.1     583.3      ..       ..        ..         ..         ..       ..
B. SECTOR OUTY'S                               Shasre o. GDP (fe) at 1958 Pri.es (6)
Agriculture                                 23.1     16.3      14.7       i6.9     17.2     17.1       i6.8      15.6       13.6
Industry (inle. .nnetructios)               28.9     36.s      37.8      3S.6      36.1     36.o      36.3       37.7       39.9
Services                                    48.0     47.2      47.5      47.5      46.7     46.9      46.9       46.7       46.5
C. PRICES (1973 - 100)
Enport Price Index                          70.1     76.8     100.0      121.6    132.1    142.2      151.4     184.6      251.2     4.5     21.6       8.6      6.6
Import Price Inden                          66.2    76.0      100.0     124.9     135.5    147.3     154.9      191.1      262.8     5.3     24.9       8.5      6.8
Teems of Trade Indem                        106.5   101.1     100.0      97.4      97.1     96.0      97.7       96.6       95.6     ..
Domestic Price Inden                        83.4     87.0     100.0      127.0    146.7     ..        ..         ..         ..       4.3     27.0      15S.5
D. PUBLIC FINANCE
(As % of GDP)
Corrent Revenue                             23.6     26.1      25.0      26.o
T-s Reven- e                                21.2     24.3      23.4       23.3
Current Enpenditares                        21.3     22.6      20.9      24.0
Defense E.pooditures                         3.7      4.6       3.9       s.6
GOvernn-nt Savings                           .2.0     3.5       4.1        2.0
Capital EIpenditures                         6:1      8.8       8.3       6.S
e. SELECTED INDICATORS                         1965-73 I1S-85
Incre,ental CapitaI/Ootpot Ratio             3.0      3.3
Inport Elasticity                            1.2      1.1
Average Nati.nat Savings Rate                16.7    16.9
Marginal Natioal Savings Rate               24.2     26.6
Inports/GDP                                 24.0     28.2
Resource Gap/GDP                             9.9      6.4
F. LABOR FORCE (nillion)                       1961     1971                                                        Output and Productivity of Labor Porce (1971)
Value Added               Value Added Per corker
Labor Porce                                  3.86     3.39                                                     US$ MI..                       5$     As % of Ac
Unenployneat                                 0.22     0.11
As percent of L.P.                         1.7      3.2                                     Agriculture       1,707       18.6             1,283      46.0
Enplcy-ent                                   3.64     3.28                                    Industry          2,840       31.0             3,378     121.1
Perceot by Seotor:                                                                          S-tvc$            4,616       50.4             4,148     148.7
Agriculture                              53.9    40.5                                         i             4           1                4
Industry                                19.1     25.6
Services                                27.0     33.9                                       Total           9,163      100.0             2,790     100.0
Not applicable
Not available
Nil or ongligible
Feb-cary 10, 1976



Annex I
Page 3 of 5
GREECE: IMPORT DETAIL
_  Actual         Est.                    Projected
1973     1974      1975      1976      1977      1980      1985-
A. Constant 1973 Prices (Million $)
Food                                756.8     509.5     491.2      471.5     496.6     570.0     701.1
Intermediate goods                  724.5     794.5     878.5      897.8     947.2    1184.o    1473.9
Petroleum and products              413.5     342.7     370.8      397.9     421.7     539.8     672.7
Capital goods                      1057.2    1094.7    1149.4     1179.3    1227.7    1447.1    1924.6
Other goods                        1048.8     926.4     836.5      798.1     802.9     927.7    1141.1
Total goods (c.i.f.)               4030.8    3667.8     3726.4    3744.6    3896.1    4668.6    5913.4
Non-factor services                  466.o     473.7     473.7     487.9     511.3     621.7     870.4
Total goods NFS                    4496.8     4141.5    4200.1    4232.5    4407.4    5290.3    6783.8
B. Price Indices (1973=100)
Food                                100.0      114.9     126.4     137.8     139.4     165.2     222.2
Intermediate goods                  100.0      119.8    122.2      129.1     121.4     155.0     258.5
Petroleum and products              100.0      252.0     269.9     285.3     308.5     350.1     532.3
Capital goods                       100.0      114.9     128.7     141.3     153.2     190.5     266.3
Other goods                         100.0      105.4     115.9     127.5     137.1     166.4     270.9
Total goods (c.i.f.)                100.0      126.4     138.0     150.3     157.2     195.6     290.3
Non-factor services                  100.0     113.9     132.5     144.2     155.9     192.9     270.7
Total goods and NFS                  100.0     124.9     137.4     149.6     157.0     195.3     287.7
C. Current Values (Million $)
Food                                756.8      585.4     620.7     649.7     692.4     945.b    1557.8
Intermediate goods                  724.5     951.8    1073.4     1159.4    1149.5    1835.7    3809.6
Petroleum and products               413.5     563.5    1001.1    1135.4    1300.9    2051.6    3580.8
Capital goods                      1087.2     1257.8    1478.8    1666.5    1881.0    2756.2    5125.7
Other goods                        1048.8      976.7     969.9    1017.5    1100.5    1543.3    3090.8
Total goods (c.i.f.)               4030.8    4635.2     5143.9    5628.5    6124.3    9133.6   17164.7
Non-factor services                  466.o     539.6     627.6     703.7     796.9    1199.8    2356.0
Total goods and NFS                4496.8     5174.8    5771.6    6332.2    6921.2   10333.3   19520.7
February 10. 1976



Annex I
Page 4 of 5
GREECE: EXPORT DETAIL
Actual          Est.                   Projected
1973      1974      1975       1976      1977      1980      1985
A. Constant 1973 Prices (Millionw$)
Tobacco                               88.3     113.7     118.2     123.0      127.8     143.8     175.0
Food and beverage                    366.5     373-.     386.3      399.8     413.8     463.2     563.7
Textiles and yarns                   155.5     146.5     157.0      167.2     178.1     217.2     311.8
Mineral and ores                      73.1      84.9       90.4      95.0     100.7     121.6     166.6
Metals                                35.2      85.0       91.6      98.5     105.8     133.9     201.4
Petroleum products                    46.4      49.2      53.8       58.7      64.o      82.8     127.5
Other goods                          465.5     515.9     575.2      621.2     677.2     936.1    1188.9
Total goods (f.o.b.)                1230.5    1369.0    1472.5     1563.4    1667.4    2098.b    2736.9
Non-factor services                 1407.6    1432.0     1503.6    1623.9    1770.0    2292.2    3526.8
Total goods and NFS                 2638.1    2001.0    2976.1     3187.3    3437.4    4390.8    b2b3.7
B.  Price Indices (1973=100)
Tobacco                              100.0     139.0     146.4      158.8     171.2     216.3     289.4
Food and beverage                    100.0     107.9     118.3      126.6     134.2     159.8     2218.
Textiles and yarns                   100.0     137.9     153.6      168.5     182.9     227.1     318.6
Mineral and ores                     100.0     121.4      124.4     131.5     123.5     158.0     208.4
Metals                               100.0     167.1      170.0     179.6     168.9     215.9      284.8
Petroleum products                   100.0     250.9     267.8      291.1     314.7     349.2     545.5
Other goods                          100.0     124.4     130.6      137.2     144.0     166.7     2i4.9
Total goods (f.o.b.)                 100.0     129.6      138.5     147.8     154.8     186.0     281.6
Non-factor services                  100.0     113.9      126.0     137.2     148.7     183.9     257.9
Total goods and NFS                  100.0     121.6     132.2      142.4     151.4     185.0     258.3
C.  Current Values (Million $)
Tobacco                               88.3     158.4     173.1      195.3     218.8     311.1     506.4
Food and beverage                    366.5     403.3     456.9      so6.o     555.3     740.2     1205.2
Textiles and yarns                   155.5     202.0     241.2      281.8     325.7     493.3      993.3
Mineral  and ores                     73.1     103.1     112.5      124.9     124.4     192.1      347.2
Metals                                35.2     142.0      155.7     176.9     178.7     289.1      573.6
Petroleum products                    46.4     123.5     144.1      170.9     201.4     322.3     695.5
Other goods                          465.5     641.8     751.4      852.1     975.2    156C.7    3386.8
Total goods (f.o.b.)                1230.5    1774.1    2035.0     230b.0    2579.5    390E.7    7708.0
Non-factor services                 1407.6    1631.0     1901.2    2234.7    2631.6    421'.6    9097.3
Total goods and NFS                 2638.1    3405.0    3936.2     4542.7    5211.1    8124.3   16805.3
February 10, 1976



Annex I
Page 5 of 5
GREECE   BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EKTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(In US$ Millions)
Actual                 Hot.                  -Projected                 Growth Rate p8   %
1972       1973      1974       1975      1976       1977 P     9e 0      1985       1974-8t5
A. SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (goods)                        835.4    1230.5     1774.2    2C35.0     2307.9    2579.5     3908.7     7708.0        14.3
Imports (goods)                      -2407.o   _4030.8    -4635.2   - 5344.0   -5628.5   -6124.3    -9133.6   -17164.7        12.6
Non-factor services, net               684.8     941.6     1092.2    1273.6     1531.1    1834.8     3015.9     6741.2        lo 0
Resource balance                      -886.8   -1858.7    -1768.8   -1635.4    -1789.5   -1710.0    -2209.0    -2715.5
Interest and profits, net              -56.3     -51.9      -95.1    -146.5     -226.6    -298.0     -442.7    -484.7         16.0
Workers remittance                     575.3     735.4      645.3     630.0      620.0      682.0     907.7     1333-8         6.8
Other factor service income              -         -          -
Total net factor income                519.0     683.5      550.2     483.5      393.4     384.0      465.0     849.1          4.1
Balance on current account            -367.8   -1175.2    -1218.6   -1351.8    -1396.2   -1326.1    -1743.9   -1866.3          4. 0
Direct foreign investment              280.4     415.7      432.5      498.o     572.6      658.5    1001.6     2014.5        15.0
Public M + LT loans                    56.2      103.6      118.0     245.1      255.7     291.0      219.8      265.4
Commercial loans                       457.9     453.5      494.0     745.4      731.6     632.9     1034.0      577.1
Deposit with commercial banks          204.1     211.6      177.3     214.0      256.8      308.1     532.4      857.4        15.4
Amortizations                         -157.3    -172.2     -176.2    -255.3     -326.9     -466.0    -829.0    -1239-9        19.4
Errors and omissions                    27.6     150.6       60.4       -          -          -         -          -
Change in reserves (-= increase)      -501.1     -12.4      112.6     -95.3     -93.6      -98.4     -215.0    -608.2
B. LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                                                 -c-u_
Actual
Total public M + LT loans              106.7      95.0      180.1      376.o  DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE    1971   1972    1973    1974
a. IBBD                                 23.5      15.0       30.0      110.0  Public nebt Ont.&
b   EIB /                                _7.7     11.8        -        56. 0  ftsbursed (DOWDj/4     1047 1 1357 3 1554.2 2034.8
C. TN                                         -             123.0      150.0
d. Governments                          75.3      68.2       27.1      60.0   tnterest on Public Debt   52.0   61.6    89.6   143.1
RetpaymeLnts on Public Debt 94.6  110.2  171 4  186.7
Total commercial loans                 432.9     512.1      487.6     623.6  Tltal Pub lic Debt Serv. 146.6   171.8   261 0   329.8
e. Suppliers                            16.3      44.1        9.5     180.0
f. Financial institutions              396.6     468.0      478.1     443.6
g . Bonds                               20.0       --                   -
Burden on Exp.Earnings   10.2     9.3     9.9    9. -6
Actual Debt Outatendint on December 31.1974                  (%) /3
.EXTERNAL DEBT                       Disbursed Only         Percent           Burden on Exp. Earnings
World Bank                                 60. 5               3.0             plus workers remitt-
Other Multilateral                         94 5                4.6             emcee (2) /3             7.7     7.1     7 6     8.2
Governments                               270.9               13.3
Suppliers                                 186.3                9.2            ADerage Terms of Public
Financial Institutions                  1251.7                61.5             Debt t2
Publicly Issued Bonds                     169.1                8.3            Int.as % Prior Year DO&D  5.7     5.9     6.6     9.2
Privately Issued Bonds                      2.5                0.1            Aiort.as % Prior
Year DO&D               10.4    10.5    12.7    12,0
Total Public N&LT Debt                   2034.8              100.0
1BeRD Debt out.& Disbursed 23.5  32.7    48.7    60.5
Short-term Debt (dtsb  only)               ,.                  ..                  as % Public Debt O&D 2 2     2.4     3.1     3,0
as % Public Debt.
Serv.     1.3    2.3     2.2     2.5
11 Tncluding $7 7 million in 1972 and $11 8 million in 1973 from Council of Europe.                                         February 10,1976
7/ Excluding IMF oil facility purchase
3/ Yearly information on private debt service is not available. As of December 31,1974 outstanding
non-_vernment guaranteed private debt totalled $914 9 million
4/ End of the period.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GREECE
A.         STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of February 29, 1976)
US$ Million
Amount
Loan
Number  Year   Borrower          Purpose        (Less cancellation)  Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                              56.6               -
711     1970   HeLlenic State    Education               13.8            10.3
754     1971   HeLlenic State    Irrigation              25.0            13.0
859     1972   HeLlenic State    Education               23.5            23.2
945     1973   NI:BID            Industrial finance      15.0             1.2
991     1974   He.Llenic State   Irrigation              30.0            30.0
1134     1975   HeLlenic State    Education               45.0            45.0
1135     1975   NI:BID            Industrial finance      25.0            25.0
1165 1,  1975   Hel.lenic State   Irrigation              40.0            40.0
TOTrAL                                  273.9            187.7
of which has been repaid                17.0
Total now outstanding                   256.9
Amount sold                   7.4
of which has been repaid     1.3         6.1
Total now held by Bank 2                250.8
Total undisbursed                                        187.7
1/ Not yet effective
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B.     STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 29, 1976)
Amount in US$ Million
Year   Obligor                          Type of Business      Loan    Equity  Total
1962   Aevol Industrial Company
Organic Fertilizers, S.A.       Fertilizers          0.60        -     0.60
1965   "Titan" Cement Company, S.A. I   Cement                1.00     0.50    1.50
1966   National Investment Bank for     Industrial
Industrial Development,S.A.      finance               -       0.72    0.72
1966   General Cement Company, S.A.     Cement               3.50        -     3.50
1966   "Titan" Cement Company, S.A.II   Cement                 -       0.03    0.03
1970   Aluminium de Grece, S.A.
Industielle et Commerciale I    Aluminum             3.50      5.10    8.60
1972   Aluminium de Grece, S.A.
Industielle et Commerciale II   Aluminium              -       0.05    0.05
1975   Hellenic Eood Industries,S.A.    Food processing       1.00     0.13    1.13
Total Gross Commitments                                9.60     6.53   16.13
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                          6.78      5.72   12.50
Total commitments now held by IFC                     2.82      0.81    3.63
Total undisbursed                                        -        -       -



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUIION 1/
Loan No. 711 - First Education Project; $13.8 million Loan of November 5, 1970;
Effectiveness Date: Mtarch 31, 1971; Closing Date: March 31, 1977.
Three of the five project schools are expected to be completed by
December 1976 and the remaining two during 1977. Contracts for furniture and
for about 40 percent of the educational equipment have been awarded. Procure-
ment of the remaining equipment is expected to be completed during 1976.
Delays in consruction have not affected the commencement of the higher techni-
cal education program which has been offered since 1974, both in temporary
facilities and in the partially-finished project schools. At present, about
8,000 students are enrolled in the program.
Loan No. 754 - Groundwater Development Project (Irrigation); US$25 million
Loan of June 21, 1971; Effectiveness Date: November 15, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
Implementation of this project began slowly due to delays in con-
tract awards, changes in design of the distribution network following con-
sultants' recommendations, and a protracted search for a satisfactory solu-
tion, found in December 1973, to the question of farmers' contributions to
the capital cost of the project.   The Government is now reviewing the con-
sultants' proposals for final design of the permanent irrigation network.
Drilling of the wells is 85% completed and irrigation has started on about
5,000 ha. Possible ways of dealing with the problem of substantial cost
overruns are being considered by the Government and the Bank.
Loan No. 859 - Second Education Project; $23.5 million Loan of October 2, 1972;
Effectiveness Date: March 30, 1973; Closing Date: July 31, 1977.
Architectural designs for all project institutions are proceeding
satisfactorily. Procurement of equipment for existing schools has started and
some contracts have been awarded. The Education Project Unit in the Ministry
of Coordination and Planning is performing satisfactorily. In response to a
Government request, the Executive Directors approved on July 25, 1975, the
deletion from the project of the extensions to the University of Patras (re-
Dresenting 43 percent of total costs) and the reallocation of the savings to
other project components, the cost of which has experienced substantial
escalation but which the Government proposes to cover.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are beLng encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should1 be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan No. 945 - Fourth NIBID Project: $15.0 million Loan of November 29, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: March 28, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
This loan has been fully committed, and almost fully disbursed.
Project implementation has been satisfactory.
Loan No. 991 - Nestos and Yannitsa Irrigation Project: $30.0 million Loan of
June 3, 1974; Effectiveness Date: July 29, 1975; Closing Date: December
31, 1980.
Because of political changes in Greece, there were delays in com-
pleting the conditions of effectiveness. Project implementation has however
begun and the review of the tertiary canal design standards has been completed.
Detailed designs and specifications are expected to be ready to call for tenders
for the first contract in early 1976. Possible ways of dealing with the prob-
lem of substantial cost overruns are being considered by the Government and
the Bank.
Loan No. 1134 - Third Education Project; $45 million Loan of June 27, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The terminal date for effectiveness was postponed to March 31,
1976 at the Government's request to allow time for Parliamentary ratifica-
tion of the Loan Agreement, which took place on March 18. Meanwhile, a
Steering Committee has been established to guide and monitor the three studies
on post-secondary education, pedagogical training, and production of education
equipment included in the project. The Ministries of Education and Labor are
organizing technical services to carry out the day-to-day implementation
Loan No. 1135 - Fifth NIBID Project: $25 million Loan of June 27, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Commitments under this loan as of February 1976 amounted to $7.9 mil-
lion.
Loan No. 1165 - The East Vermion Irrigation Project: $40.0 million Loan of
October 3, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The terminal date for effectiveness has been postponed to April 5,
1975 at the Government's request to allow time for Parliamentary ratification
of the Loan Agreement. Meanwhile action has been initiated to appoint con-
sultants for the final design and preparation of tender documents.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
GREECE
HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMfARY
Borrower:            Hellenic State.
Amount:              US$30 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:               Amortization in 15 years, including a 4-year grace period,
with interest at 8-1/2% per annum.
Project
Description:       The project would comprise:
1. Construction and improvement, and related supervision,
of the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road (100 km);
2. Technical assistance (about 170 man-months) to the
Ministry of Public Works for the development and
implementation of an organization for improved highway
maintenance and maintenance planning procedures, and
coordination of feasibility studies;
3. Feasibility studies of the (i) Cambos Despoti-Metsovon-
Votonosi; and (ii) Corinth-Kalamata via Tripolis roads;
and (iii) feeder roads linking villages in the Klidi
agricultural area to the national road network (to-
taling 295 km), and technical assistance therefor
(40 man-months);
4. Fellowships abroad (about 240 man-months) for Ministry
of Public Works senior and middle management; and
5. Technical assistance (about 100 man-months) to the
Ministry of Coordination and Planning for the estab-
lishment and strengthening of a secretariat to a
national transport coordination committee.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
GREECE
Project Cost                                              ---- US$ Million ---
Estimates:                                              Local Foreign    Total
Construction                           15.8    8.2     24.0
Supervision of Construction             0.9      0      0.9
Right-of-Way and Land Acquisition       2.6      0      2.6
Procurement of Highway Maintenance
Equipment                             1.4   10.3     11.7
Technical Assistance to MPW             0.7    1.4      2.1
Feasibility Studies of 3
Selected Roads                        0.5    0.3      0.8
Fellowships for MPW                       0    0.4      0.4
Technical Assistance to MCP             0.4    0.8       1.2
Basic Project Cost                     22.3   21.4     43.7
Physical Contingencies                  2.3    2.1      4.4
Expected Price Increases               10.1    6.5     16.6
TOTAL                      34.7   30.0     64.7
Financing Plan:                                           ---- US$ Million ----
Local Foreign Total
IBRD Loan                              0      30.0     30.0
Government Contribution               34.7     0        34.7
TOTAL                     34.7    30.0     64.7
Estimated                      ----------- US$ Million -----------
Disbursements:                FY 77     FY 78     FY 79      FY 80    FY 81
Annual       1.2      14.8       7.3       5.0       1.7
Cumulative   1.2      16.0      23.3      28.3      30.0
Procurement
Arrangements:      Construction services and maintenance equipment will be
procured by international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement". A preference
of 15 percent will be granted to domestic manufacturers of
equipment for purposes of bid comparison. Consulting serv-
ices will be procured on the basis of competitive selection
among suitable firms in accordance with the guidelines for
the "Uses of Consultants by the World Bank and its Bor-
rowers".
Consultants:         About 210 man-months of technical assistance to the Ministry
of Public Works and about 100 man-months to the Ministry of
Coordination and Planning.
Estimated
Completion Date: June 30, 1980.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
GREECE
Economic Rate
of Return:         On construction of Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road:    20 per-
cent with first-year return of 15 percent.
On road maintenance and workshop equipment and spare parts:
46 percent.
The average economic return on these two components, which
account for 90 percent of total project cost, is 26 per-
cent.
Staff Project
Report:            "Staff Project Report on Appraisal of a Highway Project -
Greece", No. 1014a-GR dated March 24, 1976.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTAL PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:
Timetable of Key Events
a.   Project Identification
i. Highway maintenance studies by con-
sultants to MPW                                Jan. 1971 - Jul. 1973
ii. Highway reconnaissance survey and
feasibility studies by consultants
to MPW and MCP                                 Oct. 1972 - Aug. 1974
b.   Project Preparation
i. Detailed engineering of Patras-Pyrgos-
Olympia road by consultants to MPW             Aug. 1975 - Feb. 1976
c.   Project Preparation Agencies
i. Ministry of Public Works
ii. Ministry of Coordination and Planning
d.   Preappraisal
i. First Government presentation of project
to Bank                                        Aug. 1975
ii.  First Bank mission to consider project         Aug. 1975
e.   Appraisal Mission Departure                          Dec. 1, 1975
f.   Negotiations Completed                               Mar. 5, 1976
g.   Loan Effectiveness Planned                           Jul. 7, 1976
Section II:
Special Bank Implementation Actions
Special Bank activities in implementing the project are to assist
the Government in:
(a) evaluation of consultants' proposals for technical assistance
to MPW and MCP between July and September 1976;



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
(b) review of the recommendations of the technical assistance
consultants during 1978 and 1979; and
(c) review of the recommendations of the feasibility studies
during 1979.
Section III:
Special Conditions in t:he Loan Agreement
A summary of the special conditions included in the Loan Agreement
are that the Government will:
1.  (a)  adequately maintain all Greece's paved national roads and
make necessary repairs to them;
(b) maintain, repair and as necessary renew its road maintenance
equipment;
(c) establish an organization within MPW to carry out routine
maintenance of paved national roads;
(d) provide adequate resources for the routine maintenance organiza-
tion to carry out its duties; and
(e) implement those recommendations of the consultants providing
technical assistance to MPW on which the Government and the Bank
agree;
(Loan Agreement Sections 4.03, 4.04, 5.01 and Schedule 5).
2.  (a)  establish the Transport Coordination Committee (TCC) within
MCP, together with its Secretariat;
(b) provide adequate resources for the TCC and its Secretariat
to carry out their duties; and
(c) implement those recommendations for further action which
the Government and the Bank agree are necessary for the TCC
to carry out its functions, on the basis of recommendations
by the Secretariat to be prepared by December 31, 1978.
(Loan Agreement Sections 4.05, 5.01 and Schedule 5).






I B R D  11917R
20°                    2120                    214°                   26Y'(                  2'8,                                                     U S. S R
-4P                                                                               ffi  S  e  <t  '>  1  rs'SX 9 G R E E C E 400-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..4   PAN  UR E
- ',  -r. . -,1-,  - ,'-  L-.:-- 8-  ---  ,   .t    \    ,{                                            TRANSPORT         SYSTEM~~~~~~~~A  ISANBUL
4                                            ,  -  ,  ,  11  | ,  1_. !1 --G---  \ , &;) ; ' 5 RJ s __)- FEASIBILITY STUDIES~~~~~~~0  5   C,  '
aL_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l.d.                                                                                                   SE CYPRUS3 ;  S 
Fat                                    \)             ' '     .       S   z      fdE        %  <    MV.   HESSALONIK
-40-  r-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AC 4197



