Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8861
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1214-MAU)
JUNE 29, 1990
Population & Human Resources Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Appraisal Estimate        -         US$1 = Ouguiya 47.0
Actual 1982               -                         51.8
1983              -                          54.8
1984               -                         63.8
1985              -                          77.1
1986               -                         74.4
1987              -                          73.9
1988              -                          75.0
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ATCT      Agence tunisienne de cooperation technique/Tunisian
Technical Cooperation Agency
BAfD      Banque africaine de developpementlAfrican Development Bank
BOM       Bureau d'organisation et m6thodes/Organization and
Management Unit
BPE       Bureau des projets education/Education Project Unit
CEG       College d'enseignement general/Lower Secondary School
CFPCEG    Centre de formation de professeurs de CEG/Lower Secondary
Teacher Training College
CFPM      Centre de formation professionnelle maritime/Maritime
Training Centre
CFPP      Centre de formation et de perfectionnement professionnels/
Vocational Training and Upgrading Centre
DPC       Direction de la planification et de la cooperation (MEN)/
Directorate of Planning and Co-operation
DPE       Direction des projets education (nouvelle appellation du
BPE)/Directorate of Education Projects
EEC       Communaut4 economique europeenne/European Economic
Community
ENS       Ecole normale superieure/Secondary Teacher Training College
FAD       Fonds africain de developpement (BAfD)/African Development
Fund
FED       Fonds europeen de developpement (CEE)/European Development
Fund (EEC)
IDA       International Development Association (World Bank)
ILO       International Labour Organization
MEN       Ministbre de l'4ducation nationale/Ministry of National
Education
SDR       Droits de tirage speciaux/Special Drawing Rights
STPN      Societe des transports publics de Nouakchott/Nouakchott
Public Transport Company
UM        Ouguiya mauritanien/Mauritanien Ouguiya (currency unit)
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
GOVERNMENT OF MAURITANIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



NM OVUCL us ONLY
THE WORLD IANK
Washington. DC 20433
USA
O0ke of Mtaf-~
OUt.m @Ovctv.GmtaI
Opruw  Ev&e:m
June 29, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Second Education Proiect (Credit 1214-MAU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report - Islamic Republic of Mauritania Second Education Project
(Credit 1214-MAU)', prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
This doc:umet ha a nuktd dibuti and may Wb uod by mdpits  Zly" i th  foam I
of th6er olfcb dutica Its ctoft rts may not otItti be  diwcleso without WorMBn autbohod.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1214-MAU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface  .........................  ..................*...*...  (.)
Basic    Data ......................   ............      ................. (i
Evaluation Summary .... .....      ...... .....* ..... ......               (v)
I .  Project Summary ......... .... . . ... .. ...... ..                I 1
II.   Project Administration and Management ...............              5
III.   Project Implementation ............ ......            .....         7
IV.   Costs and Financing . ........*....  .........     ........       14
V.   Project Results ........ ..... .... .................. .          19
ANNEXES  ...  ......... . . *....... .. .... .. .... 00...........          25
Annex 1.   Compliance with Credit Agreement Covenants.....              26
Annex 2.   Implementation Schedule ............ .......                 29
Annex 3.   Comparative Tables of Planned and
Build Surface Areas  ...... ........... . .. ..          30
Annex 4.   Schedule of Credit Disbursement ................             32
Annex 5.   Summary Table of Specialist Services ...........             33
Annex 6.   Principal Studies Conducted  ..................              34
Annex 7.   Summary Table of Training Actions......o........             35
Annex 8.   Total Cost of Project ................... .........          36
Annex 9.   Comparative Table of Schedule of
Disbursements .............. .  ........... .           39
Annex 10.  Objectives and Results of the Project ...........            40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not ctherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1214-MAU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.       This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second
Education Project in Mauritania for which IDA Credit 1214-MAU for 4.9
million SDR (US$5.7 million equivalent) was approved on May 20, 1982. The
credit was closed on December 31, 1988, 27 months behind schedule. The
Credit was not fully disbursed and the undisbursed balance of SDR 74,422
was cancelled July 13, 1989.
2.       The PCR was prepared by UNESCO and the Africa Regional office, and
is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit Agreement,
Supervision Reports, field observations and discussions held with IDA and
country officials.
3.       The PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower and cofinancier for comments but
none were received.



- ii -
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1214-MAU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
Appraisal Provisional
estimates    Results
Total cost of project (as of Jan. 1. 1989)
-    in millions UM                                 720       647
Z less                                                    10
-    in millions SDR                                13.2       7.9
Z less                                                    26
Amount of Credit (million SDR)
Disbursed                                           4.9        4.83
Cancelled                                                       .07
Completion date of physical components                 12/83      12/85
Financial performance                                             good
Institutional performance                                         good
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Appraisal      Revised              Actual
Estimates      Estimates            Date
First reference to dossier                                        5/78
Government request           11/79                                9/80
Negotiations                  i;/61                               12/81
Board approval               1/82                                  3/2/82
Credit Signing                                                    5/20/82
Effectiveness                                                     1;'21/83
Closing date                 9/30/86         9/30/87
6/30/88             12/31/q8
Borrower: Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Executing agency: Ministry of Economy and Finance.
Subsequent Project:
Credit Number             1943-MAU
Amount (USS million)      18.2
Date of Agreement         Augus; 29, 1988



- iii. -
ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ACCUMULATED DISBURSEMENTS
(USS millions)
Quarter/Year *    IV/83  IV/84  IV/85  IV/86  Il87  I188  Il89  IV189
Appraisal
Estimates         1.55   3.05   4.35   5.62   5.70
Actual             0.77   1.42   2.16   2.86   3.78  4.30  5.08   5.61
Actual as Z
of Estimate    49.7   46.6   49.7   50.9   66.3   75.4  89.1  98.5
* IDA fiscal year: July 1 - June 30



- iv -
DATA RELATED TO MISSIONS
Report
Mission*        Sent   Month/    No.        No.   Special    No  of  Rn/epok           Dte
by      year      weeks   pern. litot        fiold  HQ   tot.
Identificat.   IDA/
Unesco  Mar. 79      1       2     ED,EC       2           2
Post-identif.  IDA      July 79      1       1      ED         1            1
Pro-prp.        IDA     Sept T9      1       2      ED,EC       2           2
Pro-prop.       Unoeso  Nov. 79     2        2      ED,A       4           4            Nov. 79
Preparation    Unesco  Feb. 80    2          1      ED         2            2           Feb. 80
Preparation    Unesco  May  80    6          6      ED,EC,U,
FA,FP,A   1iS          1            June 80
Preparation    Unesco  June 80    1          5     ED,EC,M1,
FP,A        5    3a   38
Appraisal       IDA    Oct. 80      3        5      ED,FP,FA,
EC,A       1 1S                     Feb. 82
Poet-approisal IDA     Jan. 81       1       3      EC,ED,A     8           3            Jan. 81
Post-appraisal IDA     Sept 81       1       2      ED,FP       2          2             Oct. 81
Sub-total                                                      61    33   84
Supervision 1  IDA    May  e2        1       2      EC,A        2    10   12             June 82
2  IDA    Sept 82       1        1     ED          1           1             Oct .82
3  IDA    May 83        1        1     ED          1    10  11               June 83
4  IDA    July 88       1        2     ED,A        2           2            July 83
5  IDA    Nov. 83       1       2      ED,FP       2           2             Nov. 83
6  IDA    Feb. 4        1        1     ED          1      7    8             Feb. 84
7  IDA    Nov. 84       1       2      ED,A        2           2            Dec. 84
3  IDA    Mar. 86       1       1      ED          1          1
9  IDA    May  85       1        1     ED          1      5    6
10  yDA    Oct. 8        1        1     FP          1      6    8            Nov. 85
11  IDA    Aug. 86       1       2      ED,A        2           2             Oct. 88
12  IDA    'Jov. 88      1        1     ED          1           1            Dec. 88
13  IDA    Apr. 87       1       2      ED          2      8   10            May 87
14  IDA    July 87       2        1     A           2           2            Sept 87
15  IDA    Feb. 8        1       1      ED          1      1    2             July 88
i0  IDA    Mar. 89       1       1      A           1     a    4             Mar. 89
Sub-total                                                       1    49   72
Completion     Unesco  Apr 89       2         2    ED,A        4      8   10             May  59
Total                                                          78    88  186
Key:      ED a Educator; A a Architect;  EC a Economist;
FP a Vocational Training Spcialist;
FA a Specialist in administrative training;
M a Specialist In maritime training;
STAFF INPUT
(Stat f e lks)
FY                79     so      81       82      88     84        86      81S     8        88    Total
Fpeappralal     16 1       s6   iZ.           -      -       -       -       _    _               96.2
Apprisal          -      -       37.9    6.1      -       -       -        -       -       -       44.0
Negotiation       -      -        -      6.5      -       -       -        -       -       -        8.5
Supervision       -      -        -      4.7     18.3   11.7      9.0     8.4    18.8      6.5    63.5
Other             -      -         .1    -        -       -       -        -       -       -         .1
TOTAL            18.1   65.5    62.6   17.8       18.8   11.7     9.0      6.4    138.      4.5   219.3
______ _ _ ___ _ __ _ _____ _ _ _ _______ _ ___ _ __



-v -
ISAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITATIA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1214-MAU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
The objectives of the Second Education Project were to (a) strengthen the
training of skilled workers in the industrial and commercial sectors by
expanding the facilities and improving the programs of the existing vocational
training center (CFPP) in Nouakchott; (b) establish training programs for the
commercial fisheries sector by expanding facilities of the existing maritime
training center (CFPM) in Nouadhibou; (c) improve the quality and increase
the ntmber of secondary teachers by establishing a lower-secondary teacher
training college (CFPCEG); and (d) improve the Ministry of Education's
capacity for educational planning and administration by strengthening its
Department of Planning and Cooperation (DPC) and setting up an organization
and management unit (BOM).
Implementation Experience
Implementation experience was generally positive with respect to the
physical aspects of construction, in large measure due to the effective
performance of the project implementation unit (PCR 2.03-2.05). Engineering
problems encountered during construction of the CFPCEG were satisfactorily
resolved bv the PIU (PCR 3.03) and good-quality buildings were constructed.
Importantly, an effective maintenance system for buildings and equipment was
provided as part of the project. Construction of extensions to the CFPP was
carried out less efficiently due to inadequate construction supervision, while
the maintenance function was neglected in this case. There were also some
design problems: for example, several non-teaching functions of the CFPCEG
(student catering and administrative offices) were inadequately provided for
and needed to be accommodated in converted classrooms. In addition, the
project did not anticipate the need to provide residential accomodation for
girls, which severely limited female enrollments in teacher training (PCR
3.03). Similarly, changes in demand for skilled worker training at the CFPP
could not easily be accommodated as workshops and other facilities were
difficult to convert to a different use than originally designed (PCR 3.04).
Procurement of equipment and furniture was efficiently carried out by the
project unit. Appropriate equipment of good quality was procured in a timely
manner and delivery was coordinated with the completion of the buildings
constructed under the project (PCR 3.06-3.12).



- vi-
Consultants and expert services provided under the project performed
satisfactorily, particularly with respect to the preparation and conduct of
national training seminars (PCR 3.13-3.14), the design of teacher training
programs (PCR 3.15). the strengthening of the educational planning function
(PCR 3.16), and, with the exception of the project unit's site engineer,
technical support to the project implementation unit (PCR 3.17-3.18).
With respect to cofinancing (AfDB for teacher training, FED for fisheries
sector training), project implementation was seriously affected by the
withdrawal of one of the partners (FED) which forced the cancellation of the
fisheries training component (subsequently included in the Third Education
Project). Inadequate consultation between prospective funding agencies during
project preparation, and IDA's agreement to waive its cross-effectiveness
condition with the proposed FED financing contributed to the collapse of the
project financing plan (PCR 3.03).
Results
The quantitative objective of prov. ing skills training in industrial and
commercial occupations has been met: CFPP throughput in 1988 was 600 trainees,
substantially exceeding the appraisal target of 350 trainees per annum by
project completion. In addition, all instructors were trained abroad and by
1987 the CFPP was entirely staffed by nationals. Training programs were (at
least initially) designed in consultation with employers, as envisaged at
appraisal and presumably reflect employers' needs. However, the quality of
training is low and cFPP graduates are in declining demand. Factors which
contribute to thtis deterioration in CFPP performance include heavy
overcrowding of the facilities, poor management of-the institution, lack of
maintenance of buildings and equipment, inadequate consultation between the
center and employers, and inadequate budgetary provision (PCR 5.01-5.04). To
help overcome these problems, a number of corrective meaoures are being taken
in the context of the Education Sector Restructuring Project (Credit 1943-
HAU).
The second project objective - establishing training programs for the
commercial fisheries sector - has not been achieved as a result of the
withdrawal of FED financing (PCR 5.06). Since the original objectives remain
valid, this component was transferred to the Education Sector Restructuring
Project (Credit 1943-MAU).
The creation of a new institution (CFPCEG) to train lower-secondary
teachers in sufficient numbers to replace expatriates within ten years - the
third project objective - was not justified. Sharply increasing demand from
secondary school leavers for admission to the existing higher teacher training
institute (ENS), which trained lower- and upper-secondary teachers even before
the opening of the new CFPCEG in 1983, resulted in a tripling of ENS
enrollment (and graduates) from 1979 to 1987, largely satisfying the demand
for new secondary teachers. The Government. in 1986, decided to eliminate the
excess teacher training capacity created by the opening of the project-
financed CFPCEG and combined the facilities and programs of the two
institutions, a decision which-was supported by the Association. It is clear
that the preparation and appraisal missions, in proposing the creation of an



- vii
additional institution to train lower-secondary teachers, incorrectly assessed
the potential training capacity of the ENS. From a qualitative aspect,
however, the project was successful in that it introduced in the CFPCEG some
major innovations in curriculum content and pedagogical approach, which have
been adopted by the ENS.
The fourth objective - strengthening educational planning and management -
has largely been achieved: the DPC was strengthened, the BOM was established,
a significant number of local staff (about 250 education administrators. for
example) were trained. and administrative procedures and systems were put into
place.
Sustainability
The long-term sustainability of thq vocational training center (CFPP) is
jeopardized by the low quality of it, output resulting from heavy
overcrowding, inappropriate training content, poor management and inadequate
operating funds. In addition, there is inadequate information on national
training requirements and employment patterns so that the relevance of course
offerings is in question. In order to improve the CFPP's long-term viability,
the center's management and financing need to be strengthened, effective
cooperation with employers needs to be set up, and the student population
needs to be reduced (limited to skills upgrading instead of pre-employment
training, as envisaged at appraisal).  Some of these measures are being
introduced in the context of the Education Sector Restructuring Project
(Credit 1943-PMAU) currently under implementation.
The secondary teacher training program, in its modified form following the
absorption of the project-financed CFPCEG by the ENS, is viable in the long
term. Even with expanding secondary enrollments, the ENS has sufficient
capacity to train teachers in the required numbers (currently estimated at
about 100 per year) and, importantly, to focus on upgrading and retraining of
teachers currently in service, as well as the training of school
administrators and other education specialists.
The Ministry of Education's capacity for educational planning (DPC) was
strengthened marginally under the project while its organizational and
management unit (BOM) was successfully established. Although both units have
produced some excellent work, they should be considered as initial efforts
which require further support if they are to establish themselves as viable
elements of the educational system. Since project support ended in 1988, both
are in danger of becoming ineffective because of inadequate staffing and
professional backstopping, and insufficient funding. Provided that additional
support is forthcoming, the long-term prognosis, however, is considered good.
Findinas and Lessons Learned
Three of the planned four project Ectivities were undertaken (vocational
training, stAondary teacher training and educational planning and management);
the fourth activity (training-for the fisheries sector) was dropped for lack
of financing (FED). Achievements are mixed: the objective of strengthening
vocational training/upgrading for industry and commerce was not achieved; that



- viii -
of training secondary teachers of good quality, in sufficient numbers, was
fully achteved; and a good start was made with establishing educational
planning and administration capacities. The failure of the vocational
training component is essentially due to poor management by the Government and
to ineffective supervision by the Association. Success of the teacher
training and educational planning and management components is essentially due
to good performance of consultants and technical experts, and to well-planned
staff training programs.
The PCR suggests, throughout the text, that several lessons can be drawn
from this experience:
(a)    Bank supervision, particularly with respect to education/training
matters, should be strengthened so that corrective measures can be taken
quickly and, if necessary, the project's scope or content can be adjusted if
project objectives clearly cannot be met.
(b)    Local supervision capacity, particularly of educational aspects,
should also be strengthened. Strict requirements for project monitoring and
evaluation, including all educational aspects, should be established and
workable mechanisms put in place to satisfy the M&E requirement. To provide
professional backstopping and oversight, a full-time education/training
specialist should be attached to the project unit.
(c)    Careful preparation of the technical assistance program pays off:
detailed terms of reference, prepared prior to credit effectiveness, ensures
rapid implementation; contracting TA-to a single agency provides a homogeneous
team and facilitates procedures and coordination; continuity in TA provision,
particularly between the completion of one and the start-up of the next
project. is essential; and flexibility in the use of TA funds to meet
untforeseen needs improves efficiency.
(d)    Training programs similarly need careful preparation and up-front
agreement on the procedures for selection and nomination of trainees.
Training program design also needs to be comprehensive and include provision
for local staff training in management, administration, maintenance and other
essential support functions.
I
(e)    Discussions on cofinancing should be initiated during the early stages
of project preparation so that cofinanciers assume ownership of the
component(s) to be cofinanced. If the availability of cof±nancing is
essential to the coherence of project design, cross-effectiveness clauses
linking the various financing agreements should not be waived simply in order
to speed up credit effectiveness. Rather, related covenants and agreements
should be enforced to safeguard the design concept.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1214-MAUL
I. PROJECT SUMMARY
Background
The socio-economic context
1.01       In 1984. the population of Mauritania was estimated at 1.7 million
inhabitants, very unevenly spread across just over 1 million square
kilometers. with an annual growth rate of 2.1 per cent. Formerly a largely
nomadic population, it has become sedentary and urbanized. Virtually all of
the population is Muslim and Arabic is the most widely spoken language.
1.02      As a prime example of economic dualism, the country draws its
sustenance from agriculture and livestock breeding but, more especially from
the resources provided by iron ore mining and fisheries, which are operated by
a small number of joint-venture companies with foreign participation. These
capitalilntensive companies employ few Mauritanians on account of their lack
of adequate skills; the country does not, therefore, draw the best advantage
from its natural resources. As regards agriculture and livestock breeding,
productivity is low, in part on account of the illiteracy of most of the
producers. In 1982, the State was in difficult financial circumstances
resulting from a very costly war, a fall in the world price of iron ore and
the effects of drought.
The education system in 1982
1.03       In 1982. the Mauritanian education and vocational training system
was faced with two crucial problems for national development: a low rate of
primary school attendance (32 percent); and an inadequate number of qualified
managerial, manual and administrative employees with training related to the
needs of the modern industrial sector.
1.04       The Government's education policy, as defined by the texts of the
1973 reform, comprised the following objectivess
(a) to increase opportunities for access to basic education, particularly
in rural areas;
(b) to adapt curricula to the cultural and socio-economic environment of
the country;
(c) to increase secondary education enrollments and strengthen technical
and scientific education;
(d) to develop specialized higher education institutions.



-2-
1.05      While the Arabization of curricula was carried out according to the
objectives of the reform, the achievement of the other objectives came up
against three major difficulties: the high cost of secondary and higher
education on account of the large number of expatriate teachers (65 per cent
in secondary education); the dearth of qualified Mauritanian teachers; and
the cumbersome, inefficient educational administration which hampered the
harnessing of the system's resources and the preparation of a coherent overall
strategy.
The Proiect
1.06       The Government requested IDA assistance in order to obtain its
objectives. In 1974, IDA financed a First Education Project (Credit 459-MAU)
in collaboration with UNDP, which included a Vocational Training and Upgrading
Centre in Nouakchott. IDA also developed agricultural training for villagers
in the Senegal river valley and conducted an experiment in modernization of
Coranic education.
1.07       The Second Education Project was defined in March and July 1979
following discussions conducted on the basis of a sectoral study carried out
by Unesco in 1978. The Government's request was prepared, jointly with
Unesco, in 1979/80. The Project was assessed by IDA in 1980/1981 and the
appraisal report was dated 15 February 1982. The Credit Agreement, signed by
both parties on 20 May 1982, came into force on 21 January 1983. The cost of
the project was estimated at USS 15.3 million, of which USS 5.7 million were
to be financed by the IDA Credit, US$ 5.0 million through a credit to be
provided by the African Development Fund, US$3.0 million through a grant by
the European Development Fund and US$ 1.6 million by the Government.
1.08       The lengthy preparation of the Project can be accounted for, in
part, by the need to find sources of co-funding. Originally, IDA was to
finance 90 per cent of the total cost of the Project but, in 1981, its
participation had to be reduced on account of inadequate available funds
within IDA, at a time when preparation of the Project was already well
advanced. Warned of this difficulty, the Government made known its desire to
maintain all of the planned components of the Project. It was then necessary,
with the help of IDA, to negotiate the assistance of other financial backers.
1.09       IDA is currently continuing its assistance to Mauritanian education
in the context of a Third Education Project (Credit 1943-MAU), known as the
"Education Sector Restructuring Project", which was devised with consultant
assistance financed under the Second Project.
Proiect Description
Project obiectives:
1.10       The Project's principal objectives, which reflect the Government's
sectoral priorities, were to-s



-3-
(a) improve vocational training facilities for skilled workers for the
modern industrial and commercial sector;
(b) establish vocational training programmes for skilled workers and
technicians for the industrial fisheries sector;
(c) expand and improve the quality of training for lower secondary school
teachers; and
(d) strengthen educational administration and planning.
Proiect components:
1.11      The Project components defined under the terms of the Credit
Agreement and involving the ministries of Labour, Fisheries and Education,
were as follows:
(a) Vocational training
- construction, furniture and equipment to complete the facilities of
the Vocational Training and Upgrading Centre (CFPP) in Nouakchott
and make it fully operational;
- prc-rision of specialist se,vices for preparing and introducing the
Centre's training programLes;
- training and fellowships for several of the Centre's Mauritanian
teachers.
(b) Maritime trainina
- expanding the facilities of the Maritime Training Centre (CFMP) in
Nouadhibou, supplying furniture and equipment and contributing to
the initial operating costs of the Centre in order to extend its
capacity to 160 students and 80 boarding places;
- provision of specialist services to assist in launching the Centre
and to prepare and introduce the training programme;
- training of the Centre's Mauritanian teachers, including
fellowships.
(c) Teacher training
- construction, furniture, equipment and funding of initial operating
costs of the lower secondary teacher training centre (CFPCEG) in
Nouakchott, with a capacity of approximately 280 students with 180
boarding places;
- provision of specialist services to prepare and introduce the
teaching curricula and to assess and improve such curricula as well
as the Centre's teaching methods;



-4-
- training of the Centre's Mauritanian teachers, including
fellowships;
- repairing and equipping a lower secondary school adjacent to the
Centre which was to serve as a demonstration school where the
students could put their knowledge into practice.
(d) Education planning and administration
-   equipment and specialist services to launch the preliminary
activities of the Organization and Management Unit (BOM) to be set
up within the Ministry of Education in order to study and improve
administrative, financial and planning procedures;
- training of administrative staff in the education sector through:
(i) training seminars for approximately 220 school administrators
and other officials of the central and regional offices of the
Ministry; (ii) fellowships in educational planning. administration
and statistics for the staff of the Organization and Management
Unit and the Planning Department.
- funding the running costs of the Department during its first four
years of operation.
(e) Proiect unit
- furniture, equipment, additional staff and contributions to the
running costs of the Unit in order to ensure the supervision of
building sites, procurement and accounting and set up an
appropriate accounting system;
- training the personnel of the Project Unit in management,
procurement and accounting.
Amendments
1.12       Three amendments were made to the Credit Agreement in order to take
into account delays in implementation.
(a) The first amendment dated 19 October 1986 stipulated postponement of
the Credit closing date from 30 September 1986 to 30 September 1987;
(b) The second amendment dated 17 September 1987 stipulated postponement
of the Credit closing date from 30 September 1987 to 30 June 1988;
(c) The third amendment dated 21 June 1988 stipulated postponement of the
closing date from 30 June 1988 to 31 December 1988.
1.13       In addition, significant changes between the Project as defined by
the Credit Agreement and the final Project concerned the following factors:



-5-
(a) cancellation on 21 January 1983 of the cross-effectiveness clause
which subjected the entry into force of the IDA Credit Agreement to
the signature of the agreement between the Government and the European
Development Fund (FED);
(b) cancellation on 22 April 1987 of the CFPM component following the
withdrawal of the European Development Fund;
(c) reallocation of the IDA Credit amounts scheduled for the CFPM to the
purchase of furniture and equipment for the CFPCEG, the Directorate of
Fisheries and the Ministry of Education's Planning Department;
(d) amendment of the credit agreement between the African Development Bank
and the Government dated 10 October 1988 which postponed until 31
December. 1988 the credit closing date initially fixed for 31 December
1986, so that the Government might use that period for conducting the
final credit disbursements.
(e) extension of the IDA Credit participation in payment of operating
costs until the Credit closing date.
Clauses of the Credit Agreement
1.14       The Government met all of the conditions of the Credit Agreement.
The clause concerning the CFPM was not applied for the reason specified in the
previous paragraph. Details concerning implementation of the clauses of the
Credit Agreement are given in Annex 1.
II. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Unit
2.01       The project was administered by the Directorate of Education
Projects under the authority of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The
Project Unit had been set up under the IDA's First Education Project in 1974
(decree no. 74.132). The national personnel of the Unit was composed of a
director and an accountant. Expatriate personnel included a civil works site
engineer under local contract whose services were completed by 31 March 1984.
The Project Unit benefited from the financial contribution of the Credit for
the payment of staff salaries, the purchase of equipment and furniture and a
contribution to the operating costs of the Unit.
Launching of the Project
2.02       One of the conditions governing the entry into force of the IDA
Credit was the signature of the agreement with the European Development Fund
for the financing of the CFPH. As implementation of that agreement was
delayed and the other conditions governing the entry into force of the credit
had been complied with by the Government, IDA accepted in January 1983 (eight



-6-
months after signature of the Agreement) that the relevant clause be waived
and should not govern disbursements related to the CFPM component of the
Project. A delay of two months was therefore recorded during that period.
Management
2.03       The management of the Project proved satisfactory, in spite of the
difficulties which the Project Unit had to cope with, particularly with regard
to co-ordination between the various funding agencies. The Project Unit was
able to take advantage of attractive exchange rates for the Ouguiya in
relation to the SDR during part of the implementation period and the
consequent savings in construction costs, whereby it was possible to finance
scheduled technical assistance and training expenditure (paragraphs 3.24 and
3.26).
2.04       Nevertheless, a delay of over two years was recorded in the
implementation of the project in relation to initial plans (Annex 2), in spite
of the fact that its detailed preparation, including architectural plans and
files for tenders, had been carried out prior to the signing of the Credit
Agreement. According to the Government, the delay was due to four main
factors:
(a) the cumbersome, lengthy nature of Mauritanian administrative
-procedures, particularly with regard to procurement, without any
possibility of intervention by the Project Unit on account of the
independence of the relevant commissions;
(b) the delay in certain payments-on account of the financial difficulties
of the Government (paragraph 1.02);
(c) delay in reimbursements made by the African Development Fund and their
temporary interruption on account of a delay in payment by the
Mauritanian Government of its annuities relating to another loan
granted by the African Development Bank;
(d) a delay of over three years by the European Development Fund in
signing the funding agreement relating to its contribution (September
1985), after having raised numerous minor objections regarding the
project, and its subsequent *proposal* (November 1986) to cancel the
corresponding component.
Project Unit Perfonriance
2.05       The Project Unit managed the Project to the best of its ability
although the services of the site engineer were not always satisfactory as he
was poorly qualified. In order to compensate for delays attributable to the
financial difficulties of the Mauritanian Treasury, the Directorate of
Education Projects secured the agreement of certain companies to pre-finance
up to 80 per cent of the project work with which they had been entrusted.
Project management proved satisfactory in spite of the difficulties which the
Project Unit had to cope with, such as co-ordination between the various
agencies (FED, BAfD) and the belated disengagement of the FED. The Project



Unit was also able to maintain a valuable dialogue with IDA staff. The
recruitment of a high-level accountant in order to handle management of the
project accounts proved to be a very positive decision.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Physical Investments
3.01      As planned, the physical investments involved the construction,
furnishing and equipping of the CFPCEG, which has now been merged with the ENS
in those buildings, including the rehabilitation of the adjacent lower
secondary school to be used as a demonstration school, and the construction of
additional premises for the CFPP which had been built under the First
Education Project. The physical investments also included the furnishing and
equipping of premises for the Planning Department and the Organization and
Management Unit, together with additional equipment and furniture for the
premises of the Project Unit.
3.02       It proved impossible to implement the physical component regarding
the CFPM at Nouadhibou following the withdrawal of the European Development
Fund; the Project did, however, permit the purchase of furniture and
equipment for the Directorate of Fisheries Training and the Directorate of
Fisheries at Nouadhibou.
Construction
3.03       CFPCEG:  The CFPCEG was built with ADF funds while the
architectural surveys were financed by IDA. The architectural quality of the
CFPCEG is excellent, in terms both of architectural design and its suitability
for educational needs. The architectural programme, as planned and as
implemented, is described in Annex 3. The merger of the CFPCEG with the ENS
and its installation in the new premises did not raise any particular problems
although some additional minor construction work had to be carried out. This
work involved the fitting-out of an additional laboratory. Implementation
generally proved satisfactory although the construction site did meet with a
number of difficulties, resulting from the unsuspected existence of a refuse
tip which had been filled in and was to be found beneath the foundations.
This caused the outer walls to sink slightly and led to the subsidence of
certain parts of the buildings. The fault was adequately rectified through
strengthening the foundations. The most striking faults were the result of
unsatisfactory allocation of certain surface areas which are not, however, for
educational purposes:
(a) the catering facilities were not foreseen initially and the cafeteria
is too small to provide for the distribution of meals to the students;
when it was decided that the CFPCEG would provide for students' meals,
one of the caretaker premises was put into use as a kitchen but this
is only a short-term solution;
(b) absence of residential accommodation for girl students; although it
is not possible to determine the effect of this situation on the
demand for participation by girl students in the Institution, the



current percentage is extremely small, not exceeding 16 per cent (46
girls out of a total of 293 in 1987/88).
(c) cramped administrative premises have made it necessary to use eight
students' rooms as office space; this is hardly satisfactory either
in terms of the Institution's boarding capacity or with regard to its
administrative management.
The non-utilization of the adjacent lower secondary school as a demonstration
school; these renovated premises are undeniably useful for the satisfactory
operation of the college but have not yet been used for training the ENS
students; the Minister of Education has, nevertheless, stressed that the
building work has only just been completed and that, in future, the CEG will
be integrated within the ENS as a demonstration school. Nonetheless, the
overall operation of the Institution would seem to be excellent especially in
respect of the upkeep of the premises, which is substantially better than what
can be observed in similar institutions in the region. This can be attributed
to the recruitment of sufficiently qualified maintenance staff (plumber,
electrician, carpenter and gardener) and to the allocation of an adequate
budget.
3.04       CFPP:  For the first phase, the extension of the CFPP was built
with the funds of IDA, which also financed the architectural surveys. The
CFPP presents an image that is in complete contradiction with that of the
CFPCEG. As regards the supplementary buildings, the architectural design is
identical to that of the buildings constructed under the IDA's First Education
Project. Implementation, however, does not seem to have been given all the
attention required. The finish is rudimentary so that the overall aspect is
hardly satisfactory and this is made even worse by a total lack of upkeep.
The situation is all the more serious as there is evidence of deterioration
only a few years after completion. On the one hand, the programming of
premises established at appraisal was not properly adhered to (cf. Annex 3)
and on the other hand the buildings do not correspond to current needs. For
example, two additional classrooms that had been planned but not built would
have met a genuine need.  The programe initially defined in the project
preparation report should have been improved and rectified before invitations
to tender were issued in accordance with changes in the employment situation
and government policy vis-&-vis the absorption of the unemployed. The
extension to the Centre includes a building with two stories for educational
purposes, a one-story building for the cafeteria, a two-component one-story
building for administrative purposes, a one-story storage building and a
workshop building. Some of the premises have been reconverted (the storage
facilities and part of the cafeteria have respectively become a mechanical
workshop and a meeting-room), while other premises are currently unused
(woodwork workshop and diesel motor mechanics workshop). This particular
situation is quite common in vocational training centers when needs change and
new curricula have to be launched while others must be abandoned. In addition
to this, the Centre is overcrowded with excessive enrollments which hamper its
satisfactory operation.
3.05      CFPM:  The planned extension for the CFPM was not built as the
initial funding agency (European Development Fund) withdrew from the project.



-9-
Furniture
3.06       The delivery of furniture and the completion of building work seem
to have been satisfactorily coordinated. The furniture lists and the
specifications were prepared by the Directorate of Education Projects with the
assistance of consultants and the bodies or institutions to which the
furniture was to be supplied. All of the furniture ordered is of good quality
and appropriate for its intended use. Preference was given to importing
furniture rather than purchasing locally produced furniture, the quality of
which is inadequate for use in teaching premises as its life span is too
short. As in all such premises, the CFPP furniture is over-utilized and some
deterioration is already apparent. As the CFPM was not built, an allocation
of furniture was made to the Directorate of Fisheries and the Directorate of
Fishery Training at Nouadhibou. Supplementary furniture was supplied to the
Directorate of Education Projects and to the Directorate of Planning and
Co-operation in order to meet needs subsequent to the purchase of equipment.
Furniture at the Organization and Management Unit (BOM) is currently
under-utilized as this Unit operates with limited staff.
Equipment
3.07       The preparation of lists of equipment was carried out by each of
the institutions concerned by the project components and the tender files were
prepared-with the help of specialized consultant services and the Project
Unit.
3.08       CFPCEGs  The equipment installed and used for already two years
seems completely satisfactory. The maintenance and replacement of non-durable
items generally seems to have been carried out quite well. Needs in terms of
laboratory products have been planned sufficiently in advance so that no
interruption in supplies has occurred. The training received by the
laboratory technicians has accustomed them to looking after equipment
satisfactorily.
3.09       CFPPs  The observation made with regard to the buildings and
furniture of the CFPP applies also to equipment. that is to say, the absence
of any maintenance and over-utilization which has resulted in rapid
deterioration. In the unused workshops, equipment has been aband.ned and
although certain machines have never been used, the poor storage conditions
and the gradual interference of sand would suggest that it will be difficult
to bring them into operation without undertaking preliminary repairs.
3.10       CFPM:  A limited quantity of equipment has been supplied to the
Directorate of Fisheries and a supplementary delivery is expected shortly.
The mission team did not visit the premises and equipment located at
Nouadhibou.
3.11       DPE (Directorate of Education Projects)s  The equipment supplied to
the Project Unit (personal computers and typewriters) has proved extremely
useful for project management; the fact that it is used by experienced staff
means that it will be a long-term investment.



- 10 -
3.12       Planning Department/Organization and Management Unit:  Several
micro-computers were supplied to the Ministry of Education's Planning
Department to enable it to set up gradually a data base for educational
statistics.
Specialist Services
Experts and consultants
3.13       The experts and consultants provided (the list of which is given in
Annex 4) generally performed their duties satisfactorily, with the exception
of the Project Unit Site Engineer (cf. 3.21). After a timely arrival, they
discharged their duties conscientiously and supplemented the training of their
counterparts through practical experience. The consultants undertook studies
and directed training seminars to the satisfaction of the national authorities
and funding bodies. Some 50 reports in all were prepared. The list
containing the main reports is provided in Annex 5.
3.14       The CFPP experts conducted a survey in 1988 on the training and
upgrading needs of staff in Mauritanian industries, devised courses, course
units and data sheets for the various training programmes of the Centre, and
provided practical training for the instructors.
3.15       The CFPCEG experts made an active contribution, within the
committees for which they were responsible, to devising the Centre's study
programme, the overall organization of training, the preparation of teaching
methods, examination and continuous assessment procedures, micro-teaching, and
practical training courses for student-teachers. With regard to
implementation of the programme and methods, they prepared educational tools
of which some are still used at the ENS.
3.16       The Planning Department and Organization of Management Unit experts
and consultants contributed to improving the content, reliability, speed of
publication of school statistics; they conducted several basIc studies on
education (funding, internal efficiency and training and job matching); they
examined the way in wh.ich the Ministry of Education was organized, made
proposals for reorganization with a view to improving its efficiency, and
contributed actively to the drafting of decrees and other forms of legislation
which would gradually implement such reorganization; they set up management
procedures, information circuits and manuals for the departments of the
Ministry; they also organized seven seminars for the staff of the central and
regional departments of the Ministry (in school statistics, and the management
and administration of institutions).
3.17       The Project Unit's site engineer proved to be insufficiently
qualified in order to conduct satisfactorily the tasks which he had been
allocated. Examination of the dossiers compiled by the expert provide ample
proof of serious deficiencies in the way the sites were supervised and the
contributors (companies, suppliers and fitters of equipment) were coordinated.
This situation did not prove too harmful to the project as the Directorate of
Buildings of the Ministry of Public Works also conducted partial supervision
of the project, assisted at certain inrtervals by the f1rms of architee-ts



- 11 -
responsible for preparing the invitations to tender for the construction of
the buildings. Furthermore, the satisfactory services provided by one of the
Project Unit managers also partly compensated for such deficiencies. It is,
nevertheless, to be deplored that the firms of architects responsible for
preparing the invitations to tender and the architectural design should not be
more regularly involved in si;e management. The contribution made by the
project accountant was extremely beneficial to the implementation of the
Project. His role extended far beyond the keeping of the project accounts and
it is undeniable that, without such precious help, the results obtained by the
project would not have been as positive.
3.18       The consultant services (two man years) provided for preparing the
invitations to tender for furniture and equipment and financed by the First
Education Project, were completcly satisfactory thanks to the skillful
co-ordination provided by the Directorate of Education Projects between the
institutions concerned.
3.19       Consultants supplied by the project also contributed
satisfactorily, in co-operation with the relevant Mauritanian departments, to
preparing the Third Education Project.
3.20       The satisfactory implementation of technical assistance can be
attributed to several factors:
(a) the terms of reference of the experts had been prepared, with IDA
assistance. prior to the signing of the credit agreement, thereby
ensuring their rapid implementation;
(b) much of the technical assistance was entrusted by contract to a single
body, the Tunisian Technical Co-operation Agency (ATCT). This
decision provided two advantages: the recruitment of homogeneous
teams who had close cultural ties with the Mauritanian officials,
facilitated procedures and co-ordination;
(c) the technical assistance provided to the CFPP by !L0 and partly
financed by UNDP and by the project itself, followed on without
interruption the assistance provided under the First Education Project
thanks to the bridging funds granted by UNDP;
(d) IDA displayed flexibility in the way the credit agreement was
implemented, which meant that within the limitation of the project
description unforeseen needs were met more easily; for example, when
the Government decided to open the CFPCEG in provisional premises
without awaiting building completion, IDA, in view of the available
project funds (paragraph 2.03), accepted to finance the recruitment of
expatriate teachers under a local contract to ensure teaching before
the return of the titular teachers from a training course abroad; IDA
also accepted to increase its contribution by 50 per cent to the
funding of technical assistance for the CFPP.



- 12 -
Personnel training
3.21       The training component also proved valuable as a vhole.  The
fellowship holders benefited from their training as shown by their performance
in their current positions. Most of them still hold positions for which they
were trained (to the satisfaction of their supervisors (Annex 6). Exceptions
include three former CFPP trainees, currently unemployed as the inadequate
institutional budget has made it impossible to open the departments in which
they were to work as instructors, and three former trainees who left the
Organization and Management Unit following a reduction in its activities at
the end of the project (paragraph 5.17).
3.22       The satisfactory implementation of the training component is
attributable to the same factors as that of the technical assistance
component, that is to say, detailed advance preparation. recourse to a single
suppliers and IDA flexibility. While no training expenditure had been
scheduled in its contribution to the CFPP, IDA accepted to draw on its credit
for the training of ten instructors in this Institution as a result of a
reduction in UNDP available funds. Had it not been for such intervention, the
CFPP would have been severely handicapped.
3.23       In retrospect, it seems regrettable that CFPP officials did not
undergo more extensive management training. This shortcoming partly accounts
for the-deficiencies observed in that context (paragraph 3.03 and 5.04).
Conversely, the training of CFPCEG officials in school administration and that
of library and laboratory personnel has had a beneficial effect on the
management aad maintenance of the Institution (paragraphs 3.02 and 5.12).
Examples of sound management which trainees may have had an opportunity of
observing abroad have undoubtedly been put to good use.
3.24       The training provided for the central departments of the Ministry
of Education (DPC and BOM) was started more than two years late as a result of
delays in legally establishing the BOM. Furthermore, training programs in
management, procurement and accounting for Project Unit staff were replaced by
cnurses in data processing on account of the new needs created by the
recruitment of a highly qualified accountant.
Operating Costs Borne by the Project
3.25       The funding of 80 per cent of the operating costs of the CFPCEG,
DPC and BOM certainly played a decisive part in the satisfactory
implementation and encouraging results obtained. Although such funding does
not in itself amount to investment, it did ensure the economic viability of
investments made in the two project components concerned by such support
(CFPCEG, DPC/BOM). Nevertheless, while the national budget did take over as
far as the CFPCEG (today ENS) is concerned, it has not been the same case for
the BOM, the activities of which have slowed down considerably since the end
of the project (paragraph 5.17).



- 13 _
Performance of the Financial Partners in the Project
Government
3.26       The clauses of the Credit Agreement were wholly observed according
to the schedule with the exception of that concerning the CFPH which was
cancelled for reasons beyond the Government's control. Whii.e some delay was
recorded in the progress of the project, it was undoubtedly due to the
Government's cumbersome administrative methods, but it would seem reasonable
to suggest that such delay was foreseeable and the implementation schedule,
which was much too optimistic, could have been adapted accordingly. The
Government performance was good on the whole, with the exception of delays in
administrative procedures and the payment of certain bills (paragraphs 1.13,
2.03 to 2.05). In the face of economic difficulties, it was impossible for
the Government to make a greater financial effort than that required of it
under the provisions of the credit agreement. When the Government was itself
responsible for financing the running costs of the institutions, its
contribution was adequate enough to meet the objectives previously defined as
in the case of the CFPCEG. This was not so, however, when the Institution
concerned relied on contributions from different partners, some of whom
belonged to the private sector. This meant that it was difficult for the CFPP
to obtain the funds required for recruiting suitable personnel and for the
satisfactory management of the Institution.
IDA
3.27       IDA performance was, on the whole, of a high standard.  With one
exception, disbursements for the project were conducted rapidly. IDA
displayed flexibility on several occasions, authorizing unscheduled
expenditure when the need arose (paragraphs 3.20 and 3.22). This attitude was
facilitated by the judicious management of savings made on expenditure planned
under the terms of the credit agreement, savings which had been made possible
through the favorable rate of exchange of the Ouguiya in relation to the SDR.
Furthermore, IDA contributed substantially to successfully launching the
project by accepting to increase its participation in payment of operating
costs until the closing date of the Credit. (cf. paragraph 1.13 e)). IDA
supervision was conducted frequently (16 missions, with one on average every
five months), with the participation of general educators on 12 missions but
more rarely (3 missions) of vocational training specialists. The continuity
provided to the project through IDA personnel responsible for its supervision
(two educators, two architects) also facilitated its satisfactory
implementation.
3.28       Two weaknesses have, nevertheless, been observed in IDA
performance. Firstly, it would seem, in retrospect, that justification of the
CFPCEG was incorrectly assessed at project identification and appraisal
(paragraph 5.08). Secondly, earlier and closer liaison with the other funding
agencies would have been desirable. The rather late date at which IDA called
on the African Development Fund and the European Development Fund, at the
request of the Government, when it became clear that IDA could not fund the
entire project alone (paragraph 1.08), may have undermined confidence. It
would also seem that, subsequently, although there were repeated contacts with
the FED delegation in Nouakchott during supervision missions, liaison between



- 14 -
IDA and the FED Headquarters was somehow neglected. In view of the
significant differences in the approach to projects between FED and IDA, this
oversight may have played a part in the negative outcome of the CFPM
component.
African Development Fund
3.29       The FAD financial contribution was positive and made possible the
implementation of the CFPCEG component in favorable conditions. The project
did, however, suffer from administrative delays on the part of the African
Development Bank with regard particularly to disbursements (paragraph 2.04)
and more especially, the use of the credit balance. IDA had to display
flexibility and authorize the project to make use of part of the IDA credit
balance in order to finance additional equipment and furniture indispensable
for the proper running of the CFPCEG.
European Development Fund
3.30       The part played by FED in the progress of the project was not
entirely positive. After having given the Government an agreement in
principle on its participation in the CFPM component, FED raised numerous
minor objections later on and took over three years to sign the funding
agreement, and then simply renounced its participatio-. (paragraph 2.04) a few
months later. Such an attitude and the extremely belated notification of
withdrawal prevented the Government from finding solutions for implementing
that component, which had to be postponed until the Third Education Project.
It is also possible that the late date at which FED participation was
requested, at a time when project details had already been finalized, combined
with insufficient liaison between funding agencies, contributed to the failure
of that component.
IV. COSTS AND FINANCING
Proiect Costs
Actual costs
4.01       The total cost of the project, including unscheduled expenditure,
had been estimated at SDR13.2 million (Ut720 million).  All the components
were implemented with the exception of the CFPM for which the estimated cost
was equivalent to SDR3.5 million. The actual cost of the project presented in
the auditor's report on 1 January 1989 was UM647 million equivalent to SDR7.9
million. The detailed table of project costs is included in Annex 7. If the
CFPM project is excluded, the project calculated in SDR cost 13.6 per cent
less than scheduled, and 20.5 per cent more in relation to the sum calculated
in UM.  The difference calculated in relation to the total if all the
components had been implemented, is indicated in table 4.1 below.



- 15 -
Table 4.1: Actual Costs of Project
(As of January 1. 1989)      Anpraisal      Actual    Difference        Z
Costs in UM ('000,000)          720            647           73         -10
Costs in SDR ('000,000)          13.2            7.9          5.3       -40
Average exchange rate: 1 SDR = 83.5 UM
4.02       The under-evaluation in UM and the over-evaluation in SDR resulted
from a favorable trend in exchange rates between the SDR and the currencies of
the countries which supplied goods and services for the project. The total
amount calculated in SDR must, however. be considered as an indication, as it
is not possible to recalculate exactly the sums accounted in UH (as the
headings financed by IDA were calculated both in UM and in SDR, the average
rate of exchange for each of the categories has already been taken into
consideration).
Table 4.2: Expenditures per category
Appraisal Estimate              Actual Expenditure
UM      SDR        X          UM        SDR        2
('000)  ('000)                ('000)   ('000)
Civil Works             139,000   2,539      24.5       128,303   1,622      19.8
Fees                     19,000     347       3.3        13,652     201       2.1
Furniture                21,000     383       3.7        27,686     197       4.3
Equipment                64,000   1,169      11.1        76,771   1,077      11.9
Specialist Services    203.000   3,708       35.6      218,907   3,222       33.8
Training                 24,000     438       4.3        24,394     327       3.9
Operating Costs          99,000   1,808      17.5       156,327   1,170      24.2
Unallocated             151,000   2,760        -           -        -          -
Total                   720,000  13,152    100.0        647,040   7,856    100.0
4.03       The share of expenditure allocated to operating costs is
significantly higher in actual expenditure than in expenditure at the time of
the appraisal estimate. The amount allocated to civil works is smaller on
account of the abandoning of the CFPM extension component; nevertheless, in
real terms, construction costs were distinctly higher than foreseen at
appraisal (cf. paragraph 4.05). The following table (table 4.3) gives a
breakdown per component of planned and actual expenditure.



- 16 -
Table 4.3s Expenditure per component
Appraisal Estimate              Actual Expenditure
US      SDR       z           UK       SDR         X
('000)  ('000)                ('000)   ('000)
CFPP              58,000    1.060      10.2       96,622    1,443      14.9
CFPM             189.000    3,453      33.2       .9,410      185       3.0
CFPCEG           210,000    3,836      36.9      276,600    3,101      42.7
DPCIBOM            67,000    1,224     11.9      105,487    1,700      16.3
DPE               45,000       822      7.8      148,923    1.430      23.0
Unscheduled      151,000    2,758         -         -         -          -
Total            720,000   13,153    100.0       647,042    7,857      100.0
4.04      The high percentage of the relative share of expenditure by the DPE
does not feflect actual costs, as numerous expenses on technical assistance,
fellowships and operating costs which benefited the other components of the
project have been lifted under this heading by the auditors.  The fact remains
that DPE expenditure was significantly higher than that estimated at
appraisal.
Unit costs for construction, equipment and furniture
4.05      The extremely low unit costs obtained at conclusion of project
implementation can be attributed to two factors: a trend in exchange rates
that was favorable to the project and a higher occupation of premises than
planned at appraisal. As the second factor is attributable particularly to
the CFPP which is over-occupied, this situation should only be temporary.



- 17 _
Table 4.4: Unit Costs per component
---Estim&ted------                      -ActualI-----
Number    Tota I  Cost            Numer      Total
of        Cost  /Student      of           Cost      Cost/Student
Students ('00 SDR)  (SDR)         Students  '009 SDR       (SOR)
CFPP               1S7                                3560
- Construction              374        2,382                   2S1           717
- EquI pmnt                 196        1,248                   318           909
- Furniture                  a5          414                    17            49
Total                        835         4,044                  s58          1,875
CFPCEG             280                                298
- Construction            2,123         7,582                1,411         4,735
- Equipment                 432        1,543                   382         1,282
- Furniture                 257          918                    99           332
Total                       2,812       10,943                 1,892         8,349
(*099 UM)    ('000 UM)            (',00 UM)      ('860 Ul)
CFPP    _          167                                350
C Construction           18,840          120                19,382            55
CFPCEC             280                                298
- Construction           98,440          352               108,940           386
Proiect fundina
4.06       The Appraisal Report specified that the project financing plan
would consist of:
(a) the Credit from the African Development Fund which would finance:
-  all expenditure related to the CFPCEG, with the exception of the
architect's fees and initial operating costs financed by the IDA
Credit,                               %
-  certain items of expenditure related to educational planning and
administration and the Project Unit;
(b) the grant from the EEC (European Development Fund) which would finance
all expenditures relating to the CFPM, with the exception of:



- 18 -
- the architect's fees and part of the specialist services, financed
by the IDA credit.
- initial operating costs. financed by the Government;
tc) the IDA Credit which would finance all expenditures relating to the
CFPP, much of that relating to educational planning and administration
and the Project Unit, plus the components of IDA expenditure mentioned
under Ci) and (ii) above.
4.07      At the time of appraisal. it was planned that IDA would contribute
SDR4.9 million, FAD would provide SDR4.3 million, the Government SDR1.4
million (including taxes) and the EEC SDR2.6 million; the EEC did not make
its contribution to the project. At project completion, the IDA contribution
stands at SDR4.825 million, that of FAD at SDR3.1 million and that of the
Government at SDRO.4 million. The following table provides a breakdown of
project financing per component, at appraisal and completion.
Table 4.5: Project Funding
(SDR million)
Appraisal Estimates              Actual Expenditures
IDA     FAD     CEE     RIM      IDA     FAD     CEE      RIM
CFPP         1.07      -       -       -      1.51      -       -      0.09
CFPM          0.53     -      2.01    0.91    0.17      -        -      0.01
CFPCEG       0.80    2.93      -      0.11    0.74    2.36      -      0.08
DPC/BOM      0.88    0.34      -      0.03    1.00    0.71      -      0.07
DPE          0.73    0.04      -      0.03    1.41    0.02      -      0.16
Unallocated  0.89    0.98    0.57    0.29      -        -       -       -
Total        4.90     4.29    2.58    1.37    4.83    3.09       0      0.41
Difference (Z)                                   -2     -28     -100    -70
Disbursements
4.08      The detailed table of disbursements listed in Annex 8 shows a
significant delay that occurred at the beginning of the project, which was
passed on from year to year and worsened during the third year of the project.
Delays in implementation only partly reflect delays in disbursement;
significant variations in the exchange rate between the SDRs and that of the
currencies used for acquiring the goods and services for the project had a
determining influence in this respect.



- 19 -
Recurrent costs
4.09       The recurrent costs of the institutions involved in the project are
reasonable and significantly lower than the forecasts made in the appraisal
report recalculated in terms of 1987 prices:
Table 4.6: Recurrent Costs in 1987
Totals-----           ---------Unit Costs-------
---('000 UM)---        -('000 UM p.a.)--   ---('C000 US$ p.a.)
Estimated   Actual    Estimated      Actual         Actual
CFPP               28,229    20,000          80,657    31,299           424
CFPCEG (ENS)      104,192    72,641         372,116    256,682       3,473
(Fellowships)     (57,758)  (36,019)       (206,280)  (127,276)    (1,722)
DPCJBOM             2.038     3,967
Totals            134,459    96,608
4.10       The incremental recurrent costs generated by the project are
actually negative for the CFPP and the DPCIBOM as the increase in budgetary
allocations for those two Institutions (respectively 12.5 and 20 per cent)
between 1982 and 1988 was less than inflation. For the CFPCEG, additional
recurrent costs are approximately equal to recurrent expenditure of the
existing ENS, that is to say, 2.3 per cent of the Ministry of Education
budget. The budget of the Institut SupErieur des Sciences, installed in the
premises of the former ENS is in fact approximately the same as that of the
former ENS as student enrolment is identical (780 students).
4.11       The fall in the unit costs of the CFPCEG in constant prices,
largely due to a reduction in the number of fellowships, has reduced the
Institution's expenses without affecting the quality of the training provided.
On the other hand, the significant reduction in the unit cost of the CFPP,
essentially due to the rapid increase, over and above the original estimates,
in the number of trainees (especially in the pre-service management and
secretarial courses) catered for each year by the Centre, has resulted in a
marked deterioration in the standard of training (paragraph 5.02).  The causes
of this situation and possible improvements to be made are explained in
chapter V.
V. PROJECT RESULTS
CFPP
Short-term results
5.01       The project has made it possible to provide Mauritania with an
instrument of vocational training that is indispensable for the development of



- 20 -
its economic activities. The quantitative objectives have been reached and
even exceeded since the Centre trains or upgrades 600 persons annually as
opposed to 150 in 1980 and 350 planned for the end of the Project (cf. Annex
9). The curricula, modules and instruments of training have been designed in
accordance with the declared needs of employers, who are represented on the
Governing Board of the Institution and contribute directly to its funding as
originally planned. All of the instructors have benefited from appropriate
training abroad.
5.02       The employers have, nevertheless, deplored a fall in the standard
of training over the last two years and Ministry of Employment officials are
quite aware of this. This assessment has been corroborated by a number of
factorst the mediocre results of the CFPP graduates in competitions for
recruiting secretaries, and the small number of CFPP-qualified mechanics among
the garage staff in Nouakchott. The main causes of this deterioration are:
(a) a substantial increase in the number of trainees as a result of
pressure from unemployed secondary school-leavers, particularly in
respect of commercial training (80 per cent of enrolment), without any
corresponding increase in the physical, human and financial resources
of the Institution (cf. Trends in unit costs, paragraph 4.10);
(b) the high proportion (officially 40 per cent, but probably more) of
trainees who have come directly from the secondary school system
whereas the Centre's vocation is to upgrade company personnel.
Long-term results
5.03      Until such time as the results of the 1988 census have been
published and for want of any sufficiently representative specific survey, it
is impossible to assess the potential long-term effects of the component, as
the last reliable data on the working population and employment are those of
the 1977 census.
Institutional development
5.04       The Centre has been entirely staffed by Mauritanians since the
departure of the last technical assistant in 1987. The management of the
Institution does not seem to have been carried out in ideal conditions, partly
as a result of the excessive enrolment in relation to available means.  The
premises, for example, are inadequately maintained although the Centre trains
building construction workers.  Some equipment has been abandoned and
opportunities for jobbing work have not been taken advantage of in order to
increase the Institution's financial resources. Although the employers
contribute to the CFPP budget and play a part in the Board of Governors, they
are not consulted either on the curricula or on the methods of implementation.
The survey on training needs conducted in 1980 has not been repeated in spite
of the obvious emergence of new needs. It would be desirable that the team in
charge of the CFPP should, in the future, receive training in the management
of vocational training and be reinforced with the temporary additional help of
a technical assistant.



_ 21 -
Sustainability
5.05       In spite of the substantial aid it has received, the CFPP is
probably not yet in a position to operate under optimum conditions without
external support. The effects of the Second Project on the Centre's
performance will not last unless measures are taken to overcome the causes of
present difficulties. The Governmnent has already decided, within the context
of the Education Restructuring Project. financed with the assistance of IDA
and the African Development Bank. to set up a technical and commercial
secondary school which would relieve pressure on the CFPP from its excessive
enrolment. This same project will continue its assistance to CFPP,
particularly with a view to diversifying its curricula in order to adapt them
to changing demand. Lastly, the Ministry of Employment is currently studying
the possibility of setting up either a national apprenticeship system or a
network of regional low-cost vocational training centers in order to meet
public demand, and to restrict access to the CFPP to already employed
personnel seeking upgrading. In budgetary terms, the CFPP ought to explore
ways and means of increasing its resources by accentuating its co-operation
with companies and by conducting certain forms of remunerated work as a
practical application during training periods.
CFPM
5.06      This component was abandoned on account of the FED withdrawal
(paragraph 3.33). The only outcome was the supply of furniture and equipment
to the Directorate of Fisheries Training and the Directorate of Fisheries at
Nouadhibou, and the preparation along new lines of the CFPM component of the
Education Sector Restructuring project (Credit 1943-MAU).
CFPCEG
Short-term results
5.07      The quantitative objective of the CFPCEG was the training of lower
secondary school teachers in sufficient numbers in order to replace, within
ten years, most of the expatriate teachers who have held such posts since 1980
and who represent a very heavy outlay for the national budget. As early as
1986, when the second class of students graduated from the Centre, it was
obvious that the total teacher training capacity (ENS+CFPCEG) exceeded needs
and that the objective of Mauritanization of the teaching staff was close to
being achieved. Table 5.1 shows that in the 1979-1985 period, following the
rapid increase in the number of Baccalaureats, the Ecole normale superieure,
which trained lower and higher secondary teachers until the opening of the
CFPCEG, almost tripled its enrolment and the number of its graduates. A
limited number of expatriate teachers have continued to work in secondary
education, particularly for teaching scientific subjects in the Arabic
language in upper technology school, specializations in which the number of
Mauritanian teachers is still insufficient.



- 22 -
Table 5.1: Needs and resources in respect of
general secondary school teachers
No. of       Combined no.      Percent
No. Teachers  --Graduates---  of Graduates   Expatriate
Year            Planned     ENS      CFPCEG   since 1972      Teachers
1979/80              541       63        -         275             73
1980/81              771      112        -         387             65
1981/82              873      230        -         617             60
1982183              834      165        -         782             48
1983(84            1,110      182        -         964             38
1984/85            1,215      144       100      1,208             31
1985/86            1,299      179       123      1,510             21 (6) **
1986/87            1,390       -         -       1,510             15 (4) **
1987/88            1,510       -        156      1,666             12 (3) **
**   percent of expatriate teachers in the lower cycle.
5.08       In order to eliminate the excess capacity in teacher training,
the Government decided, in November 1986, to combine the training programmes
of the ENS and the CFPCEG. Today, the premises of the former CFPCEG house the
new ENS, which prepares, in two years, first cycle higher education graduates
to teach in both secondary cycles. The premises built are currently used to
full capacity. As regards the premises of the former ENS, they now house the
Institut Superieur des Sciences (ISS) which provides teaching in the first two
university cycles. The Government's decision, which was approved by IDA, was
justified by: (i) the elimination of a source of unproductive expenditure as
the qualified teachers, even when in excess of needs. are entitled to
guaranteed employment in the public service; and (ii) the optimum utilization
of existing premises. The decision has, however, led to a slight increase in
the unit cost of first cycle secondary education as today, all new teachers
are trained for four years after the Baccalaureat.
5.09       In retrospect, it would appear that, given existing capacity, the
creation of the CFPCEG was not justified by the number of teachers to be
trained, in contradiction with the conclusions of the identification and
appraisal missions. It is more than likely that these missions, aware as they
were of the problem facing the Government in having to recruit a large number
of expatriate teachers. assessed incorrectly the potential training capacity
of the ENS. While the construction of the CFPCEG did not make an essential
contribution to the growth in the number of trained teachers, it has,
nevertheless, encouraged the development of the university by enabling it to
make use of the former ENS premises.
5.10       In qualitative terms, the objective of the CFPCEG component was
perfectly justified. The aim was to devote 25 per cent of the students' time
to genuine educational training completed by practical teaching experience.



- 23 -
This constituted a major innovation as, in the image of the French Ecoles
Normales Superieures, the ENS curriculum was resolutely fundamentalist:
virtually all of the students' time was devoted to scientific or literary
subjects and very little to teacher training. The declared goal has been
achieved: ENS students currently devote 35 per cent of their time to
pedagogical training (7 per cent in the first year and 67 per cent in the
second year).
Long-term results
5.11       The long-term future of the ENS seems safe, even after the
virtually complete Mauritanization of secondary school teaching staff. In
accordance with the Plan de consolidation et de relance (PCR), which provides
for moderate expansion of the lower cycle and a restriction on students
admitted to the fourth year of secondary school, it will be necessary to train
each year between 80 and 100 new teachers until the year 2000. The ENS will
also be responsible for in-service upgrading for teachers, particularly those
in the lower cycle, and for training programmes for primary education
inspectors and education planners and administrators, according to needs. The
current budget of the Institution is sufficient to provide training of a high
standard (paragraph 4.12).
Institutional development
5.12       The project seems to have ensured the satisfactory development of
the Institution, both in terms of teaching organization and management
(paragraphs 3.05 and 3.14). Nonetheless, 40 per cent of teachers are still
expatriates, particularly the best qualified. This proportion is steadily
decreasing - a trend which it is to be hoped that the ENS's Directorate will
encourage through systematic efforts to upgrade teachers with the help of
fellowships provided by external aid sources.
Sustainability
5.13       The remarks that are listed above would suggest that the project is
sustainable.
DPC
Short-term results
5.14       The component contributed to strengthening a little the DPC
personnel (Annex 9), to improving the school statistics which are published
regularly less than a year after each new academic year, and to having a
number of basic surveys conducted by consultants (Annex 5).
Institutional development
5.15       The embryonic state in which this department was at the beginning
of the project did not enable it to possess the capacity required to play



- 24 -
fully its role of guidance in education development and in advising the
authorities in the preparation of education policies. The DPC still lacks
adequate personnel in terms both of skills and numbers, and its budgetary
allocations have decreased in real terms between 1982 and 1988 (paragraph
4.11). Of the development of education and its impact on the job market have
not yet been analyzed. In order to contribute to the development of the DPC,
continued assistance will be included in the education restructuring project
(paragraph 1.09).
BOM
Short-term results
5.16       On the whole, component A achieved its short-term objectives (Annex
9) thanks, in particular, to the technical assistance provided (paragraph
3.20). The BOM/OMU played a vital part in reorganizing the Ministry of
Education and in improving its efficiency; it conducted a survey on
communication channels and administrative problems within the Ministry; it
devised management procedures and documents to be used by the departments;
and trained 250 administrators in the central and regional departments,
excluding the directors of those departments.
Institutional development and sustainability
5.17       Action undertaken by the BOMIOMU with a view to improving the
efficiency of the Ministry of Education came largely to an end with the
completion of the project. The Unit only has two officials without any
service staff and a very limited operating budget (UM 363,000 in 1988).
Proposed changes in the management procedures are reported to have encountered
a degree of resistance within the Ministry. There is an awareness within the
Ministry of Education of the need to continue the action that has been
launched and, in order to do so, to increase the material resources of the
BOM/OMU. The Unit's endeavors within the Ministry have attracted the
appreciation of other ministries in which similar units have been set up,
under the aegis of the Organization and Management Unit of the Presidency,
within the framework of an institutional development project financed by IDA.
Directorate of education proiects
Institutional development
5.18       The DPE has now acquired useful experience in project management
(paragraphs 2.03 to 2.05). On the basis of that experience, it has now been
invited to play a more demanding role in implementing the education
restructuring project. a complex venture which includes 11 sub-components and
involves four separate ministries.



- 25 -
T IST OF ANNEXES                     N
Compliance with Credit Agreement Covenants                        I
Implementation Schedule                                           2
Comparative Tables of Planned and Build Surface Areas             3
Schedule of Credit Disbursement                                   4
Summary Table of Specialist Services                              5
Principal Studies Conducted                                       6
Summary Table of Training Actions                                 7
Total Cost of Project                                             8
Comparative Table of Schedule of Disbursements                    9
Objectives and Results of the Project                            10



- 26 -                       ANNFX 
Page 1 of 3
Compliance with Credit Agreement Covenants
Section No.                               Status
of credit          Covenant               M: met                 Comments
agreement                                 N: not met
3.01(b) The  Borrower  shall prior  co  M The special account has been
July  31,  1982  establish  a        established  and  the  initial
Revolving   Fund in a special        deposit has been made.
account on the Treasury and
deposit therein  UM2.0 million
to be used for the Project
Unit expenditures.
3.05        In  order  to  assist  the  M Although conditions were met,
Borrower in the preparation of       the    rapid    increase    in
designs and specifications for       enrollment at ENS and CFPCEG
buildings and other facilities       saturated  secondary   teacher
under  the  Project,  in  the        needs.        The    Government
supervision       of        the      therefore     combined     both
construction   work   included       institutions which will train
therein and in the procurement       teachers  for both  cycles  of
of  goods  and  services,  the       secondary education.  Training
Borrower shall employ  within        content for  the  new  ENS  is
the  =Project  Unit  equipment       under  appraisal  within  the
specialists, architectural and       Third Education Project.
other    consultants      whose
selection,      qualifications,
experience   and   terms   and
conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Bank
The  Borrower  shall,  not  M Acceptable programmes had been
3.09    later than December 21, 1982         prepared and submitted to IDA
or  such  other  date  as  the       and AfDF.  In view of changes
Association  may  agree:  (a)        in needs of maritime training,
Furnish to the Association for       however, CFPM  curricula will
its review a detailed proposed       be   reassessed   under   Third
teaching program for CFPH and        Education Project.   Curricula
afford   the   Association   a       and  entry  requirements  for
reasonable   opportunity    to       ENS,   which   has   replaced
exchange   views   with   the        CFPCEG,  will  also  be  re-
Borrower  on  such  curricula;       examined under Third Education
and (b) establish CFPCEG with        Project.
curricula    and      admission
requirements  satisfactory  to
the Association.



ANNEX 1
- 27 -                   Page 2 of 3
In  order  to  assist  the  M The CFPP 1987 budget amounted
3.10    Borrower in carrying out  the         to UM20 million, of which the
Project,  the  Borrower  shall:      Government   contributed   13.5
(a)  appoint  specialists   in       million.      The  budget  was
addition to the consultants to       inadequate in view of trainee
be employed under Section 3.05       enrolement inflation.
of   this   Agreement   whose
selection,      qualifications,
experience,      terms      and
conditions of employment shall
*             be    satisfactory    to    the
Association;     (b)    appoint
qualified local counterparts
to the expatriate specialists;
and    (c)    employ    local
specialists under conditions
customary in the Borrower's
civil service.
Without limitation  to the  M An audit firm was selected and
4.01(b) foregoing, the Borrower shall:        a   contract   signed.       The
(i) maintain or cause  to be         reports   on   the   financial
maintained  separate  accounts       years, including 88, have been
reflecting all expenditures on       drawn up.
account of which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit
Account   on   the   basis   of
statements of expediture; (ii)
retain, until one year after
the Closing Date, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices,
bills   receipts   and   other
documents)    evidencing    the
expenditures  on  account  of
which      withdrawals       are
requested   from   the   Credit
Account  on   the   basis   of
statements of expenditure; and
(iii) enable the Association's
representatives   to   examine
such records.
The Borrower shall propose   H A   convention   was   signed
4.03(i) measures        to        ensure      between the Ministry of Higher
contributions by employers to        Education   and   the   General
the financing of the operating       Association    of    Employers
costs of CFPP.                       (CGEH) increasing  the  CGEM's
annual  contribution  to  the
CFPP  from  UMO.5  million  to
Ul1.0 million.



ANNEX 1
- 28 -                   Pape I of 3
The  Borrower  shall  propose   M After four years of delay,* the
4.04(i) measures        to        ensure      co-financing   agreement   with
contributions  by  ship  owners      EDF was  signed  in  September
to  the   financing   of   the       1985.    The  EDF  subsequently
operating costs of CFPH1.            announced  its  intention  to
withdraw   Orom   the   project
(November   1986)   and   that
component had to be postponed
until   the   Third   Education
Project.
The Borrower shall, not later  X Sector   cost   and   financing
4.06    than December 31, 1983, review       studies   were   completed   on
with   the   Association   the       education       and       higher
progress of implomentation of        education.       Cost-reduction
(M)     the      cost-reduction     measures  and  recommendations
measures   in   the   education      were prepared and applied as
sector; and (ii) the develop-        part   of   the   Government's
ment   of   higher   education       Programme    de    redressement
provided  for  in  its  Fourth       economique et financier 1985-
Development Plan.                    1988'.    A  decree  regulating
higher   education   fellowship
allocation  was   promulgated.
Measures for restructuring and
strengthening higher education
have  been  planned  for  the
Third Education Project.



XMPLBKXATION OCEEDULE
980 _1981_   192_ _193_ _194_  _1985    1986                                      17    198
3412341234123412341234123412341234
C,PP
Civil w6dis                       Zt tlIiZIIaulul,rurTu
TITTTTT"MTT. .TIITTTTT   :3                            XXXX :
Equipment, furniture                      IIIIIIIIIIIIOOOO00TTYTIYIIITTT
TTITTTTTTTTT                --------- ru-nooot
Specialist ervices                                  _V_VTTJVTUTTUJ7VTTJ
CFPCEO
CiviI works                       itilitilih tithifo1w1TTUT TvTTJHHT
T?TTT"TTTTTTTM   WWWWWTTT.x.Kxjw ~Xxx
Equlpment, furniture                         hiti1iuihYTIT
TITTTTT?TTT    _  -0u -    0W XXXXX
specialist service                                              _ mTwT1vvv yflhJTv yTTyUhTtTTflv  r
ttalnlrqt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 MI¢N  pCC4110     Im m         r                                                                                     ,<>ilII,HH Iifiilill fXKXX
trainfng notional persomnlVYVVT1VTVVV
Participstion operating costs                                                       -                                                                                  IvJTJTTUT i
VPC/300N (Pi. Dept./OmU)
Equipment, furnitwr                           hllitIOOOYiTIITY
specialist servlies                                       I
Training nationral persavel               vYTTTTYVTI_
Participation operating costs                                   __v,vf,v i,J,,1vvvv,Ivvruvv_rvrvrTT                                                                 I
III S Prepartion of biding doecunts - Pland
tIT a Preparation of bidlir  doumnt- Actual
000 I lidding ard proc ent ' PlaNned
00  * bidding ad pr_acurmt - Actual
YVIYS lopleentation of activities, eontrutton worls, supplies ui  ervices - Pland
xxX s Imp- t...ation of activtifes, eatnaction woks, swapife ond ervices - Actual
_:_ Inter.auption of activity -



- 30 -                  ANEX 3
Paee 1 of 2
Comparative Tables of Planned and Built Surface Areas
Extension of the CFPP in Nouakchott
Number                          PLANNED                    BUILT
pers.   surf.   surf.  pers.       surf.  surf.
Designation            /unit   /pers.  /prem. /unit       /pers. /prem.
2 Instructors' rooms        20        3      60       20        3      61
1 Sorting room                                                         26
1 Mediatheque                                60                        82
1 Classroom                 30       2       60       23      1,6      36
1 Art room                  16        3      50       18      2,7      50
1 Cafeteria                                 100                        96
1 Storage area                                                          4
1 Switchboard                                                          12
4 Offices                                                              12
1 General storage area                                                 68
1 Hangar                                    216                       238
1 Woodwork workshop          8       9       72       12        6      68
1 Wood storage area                          72                        38
2 Classrooms                18        2      36
Total                    157     5.3      834      350      2.4    847



ANNFX I
- 31 -                      Page 2 of 2
Construction of the CFPCEG
Number                          PLANNED                 _  BUILT
pers.   surf.    surf.  pers.      surf.  surf.
Designation           /unit   /pers.  /prem. /unit    /pers. /prem.
Classroom Building                          552                       457
2 Classrooms               48      1.5       72       40      1.5      61
5 Classrooms               24        2       48       26      1.8      46
1 Multi-purpose room      120        1      120       80      1.3    105
1 Multi-purpose room       24        2       48
Worhshop Building         616                        570
Art room                   24        3       72       24        3      73
Geology-ecology labs       24      2.9       70       24      2.5      59
Geology-ecology prep.                        54                        29
Physics-Chemistery labs   24       2.9       70       24        3      75
Phys.-Chem., Bio-Phys.prep.                                            30
Bio-physiology labs                          35       24        3      75
Language laboratory        24      2.5       60       20      2.3     47
Experimentation room       40      1.6       64       40      1.8      67
Observation room           24      1.3       31       24        1      27
Reading room               24      1.5       36       24      1.6      60
Library                                      80                        17
Documentalist's room                         44                        11
Boarding Premises: (2 bldgs. 0+2)           693                    1.091
90 Rooms 2 beds           180      3.9      693      180      4.8    867
Sanitation                                                            207
Storage                                                                17
Administrative Building                     190                       145
Director of studies         2                20        1               16
Secretariat, switchboard   2                 18        2               16
Educational advisor                                    1               11
Director                    1                20        1               13
Bursar                      1                12        1               11
Photocopying unit                            12                        11
Educat. material storeroom                   40
Staff room                 29                60       29               54
Toilets and maintenance                       8                        13
Service Build. and Misc.                    262                       480
Common room                                  60                        56
Cafeteria                                    40                        37
Caretaker's accommod.                        12                        12
Director's accommod.                        100                        94
Toilets                                      50                       165
Technical premises and transformer                                     63
Laundry                                                                53
TOTAL                     280      8.2   2.313       298      9.2  2.743



- 32-                         ANNEX 4
SCHEDULE OF CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
(in SDR)
Category                    Original            Distributed       Percentage
of Expenditure               Amount               Amount
(1)                 (2)              (2)1(1)
1.  Civil Works                   310,000              339,890             110
2.  Furniture                      60,000               84,818             141
3.  Equipment                     160,000              670,177             419
4. Professional Services
(I)  Specialists            2,200,000            1,983,335              90
(ii) Fees                     130,000              212,813             164
5.  Training                      170,000              199,116             117
6.  Operating Costs               710,000            1,001,457             141
7. Refund of the Project
Preparation Advance           340,000              269,188              79
8.  Unallocated                   820,000
9.  Special Account                                     64,764
Total                       4,900,000            4,825,578              98



Si.aery Table of Specialist Services
Average
Number  iocal/expat.      Start date        End date      Stoff/ nth      Cost 000 UN       unit cost'*
COMPONENT             Pt.     Act1&i a LirfrAPtcttl e1NAhl3It £ n     lgh  el    L    ctual l*aL  eActut  Pt5eA  ctual  Obsgrvations
Technical advisor          I                      I       1/82      1/82    6/87    21.0    30.0                                          Over 35 H/r UWOP funding
Tech. specialist           I                              1 /02     1/82    9/83    24.0    21.0
(motor mchanics)         1      1     E        t        1/82      1/82   12/85    13.0    21.0                                         over 27 1/r UNDP funding
(coc rce)                1      1      1       t        1/82      1/82    3/84    13.0    16.5                                         Over lO R/m tOP lundins
(building)               1      1      E                1/82      1/82     1/8U                                                        Over 0/          f
84.0   101.5   31,020  45,393    369        44?
Director                    110/81                                   *                48.0
Training vessel                          t                1/83                       36.0
Trainer                     1                               /s                          . 60
Con. retrig. instr.         1            E               10/3                         24.0
14.0      4.0    33,840   9,300    235       2,325
Programeo di rector
teaching methods          1      1     t        t        1/83     3/83    9/86    36.0    42.0
curriculum develop.       I      I     t        a      10/U3    12/83    1/85    24.0    24.0
1      1     t        a      10/83    12/83    1/85    24.0    24.0
6     E                         10/83    9/86    _.0    I9Sb                                          Replec.natlonols on tralneehp
84.0   .270.0   32,900   54.752   392      203
D=*rt  nt and 80  tONU)
public adminsatratiOn   1        1      E        t      10/82     11/83'    2/87    36.0    39.0
school odulnistrabion                   I 1             10/82     11/83    2/8?    36.0    39.0
educational planning                t            E      10/82      3/83    3/86    36.0    39.0
f       E       '3/83     4/05     3/87    zA        Z&A
130.0    141.5  51418  7S,562   396        534
Icnloemntation office
Director                  1      1      N        I       1/82      1/82  en place   60.0    60.0
Spciallst                1      *       t       *       1/82                       60.0      0.0
1     1      t.EA1/82                   4/82    3/84    48.0    24.0                                         Paid under 459-NAU In 1982
Accountant                1      1      N        E       1/82      1/82  en place   60.0    60.0
at. consultant            1      *               *       1/82                       60.0      0.0
3/?              ..LO     _Q,S
288.0   144.5    15,886   1t,002   SS       118
-   - -   -                        226 305
730.0    61.5  165.064  202,009
a At project appraisal
e In '    UN.



Principat Studies CondActed
ecSPohEUT             RIPoSt TITLE                                                  AUTMORS                    OATE
CPP        Sbvey on trainirg needs                                                                            9/80
*        training plans for Instructors nd staff                                                            11/81
*        Professionil reports and trsineeship prooram                                                       01/8U
CFPN       Vocationat trsIntng canter at Nouedbibou                         SOSETEH                           09/87
*        Study on training in the ffisrmy *ector                          RD Internettonal                  10/8?
CFPCES     Coaputsory trainsoesip curricule In let year
*        Observation plan wid inmltsie of a leason
*        file on educationsl profile of etudent-teacher
*        Cwntal orgmnIiation of teaching at CFPtEO                        Sen Fstom
a        Techiog  ethodology                                              tadllil
*        Exaination proeidres for teachere0certificate                    Son Fat..
a        Preliminary appraisal of cmipulsery 1st year traineeship         Son Fatm 8 Ladjlit                1984                                SS
U        Org. of weekty traineehips and ectional laborary                 Ben Fatm                          1984
*        Procedorsl tethodlogy for micro-teahing sessions                 Ladilif                           03/85
*        Anltyls and appraisal of CFPtEO trainin  program.                Ban POt.                          1984
MPA/NM    lpvnt of sool statistical  directory                              Joaum                             06/83
*        Cost and funding of eodstlon In  auritania                       J                                 05/84
*        Reorgnization of Ministry of Edueution
w analtis nd dlegnos
draft project                                                Jerbi & El KaidI                  06/84
a         Internal offlelency of furdaental edhcation In  auritanis       Joou                              01185
m        Possible costs reuctIon In fuwdmental edicetlon                  J                                 11/8S
a        Repercussion of new escaton strategy on costs                    Jaouo                             05/85
*        Cost funding and ecatiatna plicty In Mauritania                    Ingat & Jarousse                11/86
*        Cost structure nd higher ecatlan funding                         Lamoure                           05/87
0        iEIployent-edcation-training co-ordination In  auitanla          Saeccor Taoufik                   09/8?                                  9
DPE/PIO    Preparation of the edocation re-structuring proJect (3rd project) Sack & al.                       04/8?



Sunry labta of Tralni'n Actions
PROJECT COMPONET                                                                 Sar toal/xpat.  Strt dote  Staff/months  Empto~ent   Cost '000 in      unit Cost
Fiold Study                        Plumned  Actual      plamnd  Aetual        Plamad  Actual       Plavwd   Actuol       Actual     Plannd* Actual  Planne&    Actual
CF P P                                                            t                 1910
qu pmant mnagenmnt                             3        .        t         .        1985                   6.0           CFPP
Instruactors                                                                                               80CP
Instructor                                     1                           *        1985                   oee
Instructors                                    2        .           E               1987                  16.0           CFPP
Instructors                                    3                  *                 t198t                  L Qna epiol *-
Sub-total                                                                                                 64.0                          0    3.317                52
9                 1 | 9            10/81               144.0        10.0                     8,460       446
CFPUI 
CFPCEG (INS today1                    3        3        E        £       10/82      3/3       30.0        30.0            ElS
Teaching asinod                      a2        2        a        a       1*182    3sn         20.0        20.0           EIS
Obsorvation techniques                2        2        1        1       10/82      3/83      20.0        20.0           ENS
Curriculum davelopwant                3        3        1        f        1/83      3/83       9.0         9.0           ENS
School admInIstration                 I        I        I        E        1/83      3/U3      10.0        10.0           ENS
Librorian                             2        2        t        E        1/U       3/83      _L          .0             ENS
Laborotory t*chniclans                                                                        95.0        9f.0            ON570    8 122
Sub-total                                                                                                                                                90        IS
Ed-CM    e                    b    2         1        t        E       10/81      3184      20.0        10.0           CPC
ad.*stlon  and plmaent                t        2        1        a       10/81      0/84      10.0        10.0           $01I
Orgnizaion andi mthoda                                   X                          9/83                  10.0           STPI
Edueational odminiatration            3        3                         10/81       /4       10.0        10.0           IC"4
1/84      10.0        10.0       Prdaidenca
Educationol administration                                                          1/84      10.0        10.0      Alphabftlaation
School admInistration                120      187       V        i       10/82      4/85
School statistics                    100       65       L        i       10/82     10/86
Sub-tatolE                                                                38
60.0       6.0                       6.345     5.102      106      85
toJct    ontion ofic                 1                                   9/83                 o 
Procurmnt                                                                 9/83       *         6.0
Account                               1                 L        *         182         .      1i.0
Date processing                       .                                                        2 .  1.  9tD
Sub-total                                                                                     F4.0        l                          940       500
Total                                                                                        323.0          .5                     24,323   16.4?        7S       74
*     At appraisal
a.    CFPP budget inadequate
sac Estimat
***.  000 W.



Total Cost of project
(Credit: NA1-1214)
_IOA Dlibursements_                  ___Afo  01mb.-                         at" Dlb._                        Total
u             $DR               UN             SOR              UN             SOR              UN             Sof
1. 1ivil works               1fl4ii.h          2I4610°    10        42        1.41091          1248.000i 6 .1 8303049                         1.661. 704
CFPP                        18.114.622         234,610                                        1,248,000         16,163       19,362,622        250, m
CFPCEC                                                      108,940,427      1,410,931                                      108,940,42?       1,410.931
2. Furanitwe                  9p07827615 tS.440.042                             110.421  3.118.055   g            2.227       aL7 f.l2          197 363
CFPP
1)                           2.329,384         16,405                                                                         2,329,384         16.605
ub -totat                  2,329,384         16,605                                                                         2,329,384         16,605
CFPN
1)                           2,553,199         18,201                                                                         2,5S3,199         18,201
11)                            502,750          3,584                                          502,750           3,584        1,005,500          ?,168
*t*b-totaI                 3,055,949         21,734                                           502,750          3,584        3,558,699         25,3U8
CFPCEG
1)                                                          13,637,152          97,213                                       13,637,152         97,213
II>                            145,878          1,040                                           145,878          1,040          291,75S          2,080
sub-total                145,878          1,040       13,637,152          97,213          145,878          1,040       13,928,90?         99,293
DPC/801
1O                          1,506,638         10,740        1,852,890          13,208                                        3,3S9.528         23,949
II)                         1.447,171         10,316                                         1,447,171         10,316        2,894,341         20,632           .0 >
sub-totel                  2,ff3,809         21,056         1,852,890         13,208        1,447,171         10,316        6,253,869         44,581
DPE/PIG
I)                                                                                             429,000          3,058          429,000          3,058
Ii)                           593,257          4,229                                           593,2S7          4,229        1,186,S13          8,45S
sub-total                     S93,2S?          4,229                                         1,022,257          7,287        1,61S,513         11,516



-IA OIbureens                    ____ _AOff Olsb._              _RI Olsb._                 __ Total
uN           DOR            UZ            SDR            u"           SDR             UN          SOR
3.  £ad.imnc               7.9  7         *66LiZ  062QA  L3liJg ti     *nU a        8S7 113S 20                 76.771.449    t on, 14?
CftP
I)                       13,768,778      17,685                                                                13,7.778        177,68S
11)                       5,432,140       70,101                                   5,432,140       70,101      10,864,280      140,203
sh: total                19,200.918      246.78r                                   5,432,140        0 t101     24,633,058      317,888
I)                       1,458.088       21.594                                                                1,4S8,088       21,594
11)                       635,225         9,407                                     63S,225        9,407       1,270,450      18,815
sub-total                2,093,313       31.001                                     635,225        9,407      2,728,S38        40,409
cfpcf
II                                                                               26,769,612      347,453     26.769,612      347,453
11)                      1,342.029       17,419                                   1,342.029       17.419      2,684,058       34,837
sLshtotat                1,342,029       17,419     26.769,612       347,451      1,342,029        7,419     29,453,670       382,291
I)                                                                                2,012,572      113,623      2.012,572       113,623
11)                       603,054        34,047                                     603,0S4       34,047      1.206.108        68,091
sub-total                 603,054        34,047      2,012,572       113,623        603,054       34,047       3,218,680      1817,16
1)                      14.143,14?      130l,42      1,492,S20        13808         28,000          259      15,663.667      144,909
11)                       536,918         4.96?                                     536.918        4,967       1.0o336          9,934
sub*otgt                14,60,M065      135,809      t,492,520        13,808        564,918        S,226      16,737,503      154,843



IDA Disbursements__            _ AtDf Dleb._                     _ RIK Dlsb.                      _Totat
Lim           SOR               UN             SDR              Ut             SOR              UN             SDR
4. Technicat essisltnce     167.851.996     2IA1J122 .          8 80r2 5                                                                      3 424.807  3.42  546
I) Specialists              137,918,550      2,116,M         6,090,392          955,273                                      202,008,942      3,072,069
* CFPP                       45,393,522          3,774                                                                        45,393,522        r7,774
* CfPl                        9,299,800         41,006                                                                         9,299,800         41,006
- CFPCEG                     22,91S,626        284,837       31,836,o69         395,724                                       54,752,m          680,560
- OPC/8o                     43,117,803        751,909       32,223,748         559,081                                       75,561,551       1,310,990
- OPt tPIO)                  16,972,799        265,269            29,97S            469                                       17,001,74         265,737
11) fees                     29,933,446        344,52S           616,419          6,952                                       30,549,865        351,477
CFPP                         1,586,725          30,747                                                                        1,586,725          30,747
CIPl                         3,376,95?          n,718                                                                         3,376,957          73,718
CIPCEG                       9,115,504         103,759          593,162          6,752                                        9,708,66          110,510
0pf  (PlO)                  15,854,260         136,301           23,2s7            200                                       15,87,S17          136,501
S. Trainina and fellowships  158229            19422         10J124             1                                             25394740          326.851
CfPP                         3,316,720         53,061                                                                         3,316,720         53,061
CFPN                           445,638           ,5                                                                             45,636           2,586
CfPCEC                                                       8,121,762         104,534                                        8,121,762         104,534
DPC/OtO                      2,926,321          5,557        2,17S,861          28,005                                        5.102,182          33,562
OPE(PIO)                     8,393,614         132,917           14,824            191                                        8,408,438         131,108
6. Operating costs          128.288.142        9  250                                         28.0391057        24,062        l56.327.199      1 170.312
CFPCEC                      40,069,361        250,286                                        11,624,28          62,572       51,693,645         312,858
DPc/ioa                     12,584,673         103,635                                        2,766,259         25,909       15,350,932         129,544
OPES,634,108                   S82,328                                                       13,648,514         145,582      89,282,622         727,910
TOfat                       375 334707        *.35709           .7 .41        3.091.191       40.982.478        408.653       47.041.616       7.DS9
0



- 39 -
ANNEX 9
Co""patative Table of Schedule of Disbursements
(SUS '000)
Fiscal
Year                                      Estimated               Actual
IDA 1/                 Quarter             Disbursements           Disbursements
1982                  4                           450                         0
1983                  1                           650                         0
2                          900                         0
3                        1,200                         0
4                        1,550                       773
1984                  1                         1,900                     1,156
2                        2,300                     1,249
3                        2,700                     1,397
4                        3,050                     1,423
1985                  1                         3,400                     1,537
2                        3,700                     1,731
3                        4,000                     2,049
4                        4,350                     2,155
1986                  1                        4,750                      2,205
2                        5,100                     2,517
3                        5,450                     2,678
4                        5,620                     2,860
1987                  1                         5,700                     3,780
2                                                 (n.a.) V
3                                                  3, -41
4                                                 (n.a.)
1988                  1'                                                  4.29&
2                                                  5,080
lJ IDA Fiscal year: 1 July-30 June
2/ (n.a.): noc available



Objectives wd Result& of the Project
Component                           Initial situation                      Objectives                            Current situation
(1960)                                                                               (19187188)
A. Vocational and training    . Skilled copany staff                . Increase pereentep of skilled          . 1988 Studt on OFormation/Emploin will
pgrading centre (CfPP)        predominantly expatriate.             nauritenan tettff In companies.          provide data.
. CfPP training capacity             . increase training capecity to            CFPP trained 639 persons In 198"  (SOS
iradequate (150 per year).           350 per year                             In tertiary sector)
Lomer training standard In last two
years.
. Training provided by               . Croduel hauritsliation of              . Personnel entirely Mauritanian.
expetriate Instructors               teaching staff.
. Centre operating cost              . Stimulete wployer contribution         . Employers finonce 7 per cent of the
entirely paid by the                 to costs.                                Centre's budget.
Coenrrnent.
8. Nreltime Training          . Iniastrial fishing ftleet           . troin 30 ne  quatified semen           . Up to 3,500 semen enrolled, very few                      s
Centre/Centre de              personnel elotst entirely              nd uprade 180 each year.                are qorational.                                         °
formation                     expatriete.
proUssfesnelle
maritime (CFPN)
. CFPN training capecity             . Increas  Centre capacity to 160    .   This project component was not fLuded
Inadequate for ,Wgrading             places.                                  on accout of EOF withdroml.
2.000 uuwskited seacen.
. Shortage of premifs.               . Supply equlpment, training
equipnent and Instructors.           vessels *nd Instructors.
0 a
MbA
o O



C. Lower secondary teacher    . 6  per cent of secondary            .mwitanizatlon of lowr                   * 88 per cent of secondary teacherr are
training college/Centre       teachers expatriate, hence            secondary teaching stiff.                bauritanien (9  per cent In first
de formotin des               high unit cost (UH S8.000 In                                                   cycle)
professeurS doe CEG            1964).
(CfPCEG).
. Rdceo unit coats of secowdary         . Unit Coat 84/5 * uto 34000.
edcation.
. The 60 ENS gra tes will all          Train 130 teacher. per year for        . CfPCEG has trained three classes with
teach In the ter  secondary,         loer secondcry.                          100-120 gradatee. Subsequent merger
with ENS on account of excessive
narber of graduetes.
. Reduced tim  in ENS cwiculus       . Devote 25 per cent of student          . 40 per cent of student time at
devoted to podagogical               time to pedagdlcal training,             current EIS devoted to pedagogical
training.                                                                     training.
. Very limited OPC persomel (S       . Strenthen OPC through technical          DPC personel strengthened (15 senior
0. Dlrectorate of Plaeing         senior staff), limited               assistance and pennoal                   staff).
nd Co-oeratlo rM             training.                             training abroad.                     . Eight studies, two pleanin and third
Directln de le            . Oiflicuttie  In preparing                                                      Education project prepred with
planification at de to        education developent                                                           technical sasistance.
cooperation (DPC).            strategy.                                                                  . Procedbres for statlstics
tureau d'organisatlon      . Educstian  etatfstics 4Xdated.                                                  plfticeatio  speeded up.
et mlthods (M09)
. No school  pping available.                                                   Ilo change concerning schoot maing.
. Incapacity to prepare end          . Create oD  to: (a) loprove             . 30 e aet up. MEM reorganized.
assess projects.                    a1inietrative practlees; (b)           . Mn ent doeuents prepared wnd
Poor educaton administration,          traln 220 oinistrative senlor           portially used.
ebtaelte to eduattional              staff far dinistry wad  egion..       . SON current activitles reduced,
development.                                                                  bdget Inadequate.
t. Dlrectorate of             . Weaknesses In retard oft            . To strenothen throughs                   N lhly satisfactory administrative,
Education                    (a) procurement;                      (a) technical assistance;                 accoenting ad financilt magoment
Projects/Direction des       (b) accemting.                        (b) anal auditing of accounts;            of the project.
prolets Education                                                   tc) on-the-job tralning.               Use of data processing techniques
(DPt). hinistry of                                                                                           well under control.
Ecencop so  finance. n



