Document of
The World Bank                   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3153a-MAU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$4.6 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
September 1, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =       Ouguiya (UM)
US$1.00           =       UM 47.00
UM 1 million      =       US$21,277
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DEP       Direction des Etudes et de la Programmation
DP        Direction des Projets
DTF       Direction de la Tutelle Financiere
EEC       European Economic Community
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
ILO       International Labor Office-
MP        Ministere du Plan et de l'Amenagement du Territoire
MIFERMA   Mines de Fer de Mauritanie
OPEC      Organization of Petroleum-Exporting Countries
SNIM      Societe Nationale Industrielle et Miniere
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Amount:            SDR 4.1 million (US$4.6 million equivalent).
Terms:             Standard
Project
Description:       The proposed project would help the Ministry of Planning
(MP): (a) formulate and monitor macroeconomic policy;
(b) implement the Fourth Five-Year National Investment
Plan (1981-85); (c) support the technical ministries in
strengthening their sectoral planning capacity, and in
identifying and preparing sound development projects; (d)
continue the rehabilitation of 20 key public enterprises;
and, (e) train Mauritanian professional staff in MP. The
project would provide for 16 staff-years of services by
expatriate resident advisers, 58 staff-years of services by
local professional staff, about 110 months of short-term
consulting services, and related expenditures for vehicles,
office equipment and supplies, local support staff, and
operating costs.
Benefits and
Risks:             The major benefits expected from the proposed project would
be the continuation of improvements in financial and economic
management following the example set under the ongoing
technical assistance effort; establishment of a pipeline of
well-programmed directly productive investment projects
(including increased attention to project implementation);
improvement in the functioning of major parapublic enter-
prises; and carefully planned training of local staff. The
principal risks to achieving the project's objectives
involve possible difficulties and delays in recruiting
qualified expatriate resident experts; in attracting and
retaining competent Mauritanian staff in the public service;
and inadequate response by Government to policy recommenda-
tions to be proposed under the project. Experience gained
in implementation of the ongoing operation has helped the
Government and the Association to agree upon appropriate
measures to reduce these risks to a minimum.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Project
Cost:
Local         Foreign        Total
---      (US$ million)----------
Resident Advisers               0.19           1.73            1.92
Local Professional Staff        0.37            -             0.37
Consultants' Budget             0.14           1.25           1.39
Training and Scholarships       0.12           0.28           0.40
Secretariat                     0.20           0.12           0.32
Vehicles and Equipment           -             0.10           0.10
Operating Costs                 0.05           0.07           0.12
Total                      1.07           3.55           4.62
Physical Contingencies           -             0.01           0.01
Price Contingencies             0.24           0.53           0.76
Total                      1.31           4.09           5.39
Taxes                     (0.17)         ( -  )         (0.17)
Total Project Costs        1.14           4.09           5.22
(net of taxes)
Financing Plan:
Local         Foreign        Total
------(US$ million)----------
IDA                       0.5              4.1            4.6
Government                 0.8               -            0.8
Total                 1.3             4.1             5.4
Estimated Disbursements
FY83     FY84      FY85      FY86
---------(US$ million)---    --
Annual             1.0       1.3       1.2      1.1
Cumulative         1.0       2.3      3.5       4.6
Estimated Completion Date:  October 31, 1986.
Economic Return: N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report: There is no Staff Appraisal Report.
Map-: IBRD 16452



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania for SDR 4.1 million
(US$4.6 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Second
Technical Assistance Project. The Credit would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Islamic Republic of Mauritania:  Recent Economic
Developments and External Capital Requirements" (2479a-MAU) dated June 4,
1979, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. Since then, a number
of missions have visited Mauritania to monitor the economic and financial
situation and prospects of the economy. Updated country data are given in
Annex I.
The Land and its People
3.        Although not classified among the "Least Developed Countries"
given its per capita GNP (US$486 in 1981), 1/ Mauritania bears many of the
characteristics of those countries in terms of its physical and human re-
sources. Most of the country is desert; agriculture, while supporting some
85 percent of the population, is generally limited to the sub-Saharan zone in
the south, where rainfall is nonetheless sparse and irregular. Pockets of
modern economic activity are found in the mining complex of Zouerate, the
fishing center of Nouadhibou, and the administrative capital of Nouakchott.
These activities largely account for the income level referred to above
(mining and public administrative services alone account for a little more
than 30 percent of total output). Yet only about 10 percent of the country's
labor force is engaged in the modern sector, and the shortage of trained
manpower poses a major constraint on economic development. Moreover, the
centers of modern activity are geographically separated from the agricultural
zone, and there is little economic interaction with the traditional sectors.
4.        The extremely low standard of living of Mauritania's population
(est. 1.5 million in 1981) is reflected in key social indicators: life
expectancy at birth is estimated at 43 years, infant mortality is 143 per
1,000, less than 30 percent of school-age children attend primary schools,
and only 17 percent of the population is literate in either Arabic or French.
1/   A major upward adjustment in estimated per capita income has been made
following official adoption of a revised national accounts series and a
downward revision of population estimates to accord with the results of
the 1977 census. For comparison, GNP per capita in 1980 is estimated
at US$440 ("Atlas Methodology"), as against US$320 previously recorded.



-2-
Past Economic Performance
5.        Stimulated by increases in iron ore production and the rapid expan-
sion of livestock resources, Mauritania sustained an average annual growth
rate of 8 percent during the 1960's. The economy experienced a sharp decelera-
tion in growth in the mid-1970's, however, and a period of marked financial
instability in the latter part of the decade. The economy stagnated over the
four-year period, 1977-80, then began to recover modestly in 1981 (by an
estimated 5.5 percent) with improved performance in the agricultural sector
and fisheries. Nonetheless, given an annual population growth rate of 2.5
percent, real per capita incomes in 1981 were no higher than they had been ten
years earlier.
6.        Mauritania's generally poor economic performance of recent years is
due chiefly to reduced world demand for iron ore, on which the country has
traditionally been dependent for 70-80 percent of its export earnings, and
severe and repeated drought in the agricultural sector. The effects of these
factors were compounded in the 1970's by the prolonged military conflict in
the Western Sahara and by an ill-conceived investment policy.
7.        The Government's investment policy was undertaken with heavy inflows
of assistance from abroad, particularly from OPEC sources, as well as borrow-
ing from foreign commercial lenders. These resources were used largely to
nationalize the mining sector in 1974-75 and to finance ambitious projects in
transport infrastructure and a few large industrial ventures which proved
unviable. As a result, external debt obligations accumulated to a peak of
$77.4 million in 1976, as against $12.9 million in 1973, while the capacity
of the economy to service these obligations failed to expand.
8.        The repercussions of the unfavorable developments of the 1970's were
immediately reflected in exceptional budgetary and balance of payments defi-
cits. By 1977, the Government's current expenditure requirements alone
reached a level nearly double its receipts, producing a current budgetary
deficit of US$88 million, equivalent to 16 percent of GDP. On external
account, despite massive inflows of foreign grants and loans, the country
suffered a severe drain of US$43 million in net foreign reserves that same
year.
The Rehabilitation Plan and Subsequent Financial Stabilization Efforts
9.        In mid-1978, the economic and financial situation led the Government,
with the assistance of the Bank, to prepare a Financial Rehabilitation Plan
which proposed as immediate priority the renegotiation of external debt
totalling US$215 million, more than 40 percent of the disbursed debt outstand-
ing at the time. The Plan also called for strict conditions on the Govern-
ment's future borrowing, tight control of public expenditures and major
revisions in public investment priorities.
10.       Since the second half of 1978, Mauritania has regained a conside-
rable degree of financial stability, largely through Government adherence to
measures recommended under the Rehabilitation Plan and a subsequent IMF
Stand-By arrangement of 1980-82. The improvement has also been facilitated by



- 3 -
Mauritania's formal withdrawal from the Sahara conflict and, very importantly,
by external debt relief and a continued flow of fresh concessional assistance
from abroad. The earlier drain on the country's reserves has been curtailed
or reversed in each of the past three years; for 1981, the net loss of reserves
was a comparatively modest US$8.2 million. Secondly, the growth of the
Government's current budgetary expenditure has been curbed: its level has in
fact remained constant over the past three years (1979-81) even in nominal
terms, and the current budgetary deficit has consequently been reduced by
40 percent from its level of 1977.
11.       With respect to the investment program, the Government has pursued
a relatively prudent course over the past four years. In accordance with
recommendations of the Rehabilitation Plan, priority has been given to
projects in the directly productive sectors, notably the Guelbs Project.
Apart from Guelbs, the Government has declared that it will leave projects in
the industrial sector to private interests, in contrast to its policy of the
1970's, and that public investment will be concentrated in those sectors which
hold greatest potential for long-term growth -- agriculture and fisheries
(para. 13).
Medium-Term Outlook
12.       Despite progress towards restoring Mauritania's financial equilibrium,
the country will continue to rely heavily on concessional assistance from
abroad, including local cost financing, through the medium term. At the same
time, the economy should be significantly strengthened towards the mid-1980's
as a result of expanded iron ore production. Although no improvement in real
terms in international prices is expected before 1985, it is projected that by
the mid-1980's, the volume of Mauritanian exports could climb to a level about
55 percent above that of the past three years as the Guelbs Project comes on
stream. In the latter 1980's, production capacity would level off as the
presently mined deposits (Kedia) approach depletion and their production is
merely replaced by the Guelbs operation.
13.       Throughout the medium term, careful management will be required on
the part of Government to make optimum use of resources gained in the mining
sector as well as the substantial foreign capital expected to be available for
new investment elsewhere in the economy. Given the long-run outlook for a
levelling out and eventual decline of iron ore production, the Government's
strategy in this period inevitably calls for a transfer of resources to those
sectors which coufld in time constitute a renewable base for economic growth.
The fisheries sector offers considerable development potential, especially
as a foreign exchange earner. Present Government policy is to encourage
joint ventures in the sector. So far, results are encouraging: 1981 recorded
fish exports reached US$100 million, double the amount posted for 1980, and
accounted for close to 40 percent of the country's total merchandise exports.
With.a longer term perspective, the Government is currently examining possible
investments in fisheries infrastructure to permit further expansion of the
sector. A second sector which holds considerable potential for growth is
irrigated agriculture, particularly expanded paddy production. Climatic
vagaries in the major food producing zones of the Senegal River Basin are such



- 4 -
that fully controlled irrigation is considered by the Mauritanians to be the
most feasible means of narrowing the food deficit. (In a year of poor weather
conditions, cereal production may meet only 20-25 percent of the national
requirement). Whereas less than 2,000 hectares were under irrigation in 1980,
Government plans call for irrigating an additional 10,000 hectares by 1985.
The rate at which land can be brought under irrigation which the Government's
targets imply may be optimistic for the medium term, given the high cost of
infrastructure required, the paucity of indigenous technical expertise and the
very fundamental socio-economic changes indicated by development of irrigation.
14.       In a country which confronts as severe ecological and institutional
constraints to development as does Mauritania, special efforts are required to
identify sound projects, to make effective use of external resources and to
maximize the potential of its respective economic sectors as the bases of
renewable growth. The extent to which the Mauritanian economy can be released
from its constraints in the medium term will depend heavily on the availability
of technical expertise to assist management of its investment program and
thereby facilitate implementation of the very difficult structural changes
called for in the Government's development strategy.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA
15.       The Bank Group has had 17 operations in Mauritania for a total
of US$220.2 million. Of these, two were Bank loans for mining operations
(US$66 million for MIFERMA in 1960, and US$60 million to SNIM in 1979 for the
Guelbs Iron Ore Project). Fourteen others are IDA credits totalling US$70.2
million. Of the IDA operations, five have been in the transport sector, five
in the rural sector, two for education, and separate projects for urban and
rural development, petroleum exploration, and a First Technical Assistance
Project to the Ministry of Planning (MP). Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of March 31, 1982, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Implementation of Bank Group projects has often been delayed by
administrative inefficiencies within the Government. Moreover, project costs
have tended to be very high and often to incur large overruns, due to the long
distances involved within the country, the pervasive lack of basic infrastruc-
ture, the small number of contractors in operation, and the need to recruit
large numbers of expatriates to implement works and to staff projects. These
factors have been aggravated by the exceptional political situation which
prevailed in Mauritania throughout the 1970s. The historical pattern of
disbursements of IDA funds has remained extremely slow over the years. So
much so, that in the mid-1970s, the Association responded to the clear need
for strengthening the implementation and management of ongoing operations
by sending more frequent supervision missions to provide support to the
Government. There has recently been some improvement noted in overall project
implementation and in the levels of Credit disbursements.



17.       The Mauritanian authorities are well aware of the many difficulties
being encountered in project execution, and recognize that some of these will
persist for several years for reasons outside of the Government's control,
particularly those related to the country's peculiar geographic characteristics,
the poor infrastructure base, and the lack of skilled manpower. The Government
has in fact been making studied efforts to tackle the manpower problem, and
IDA assistance has been provided under the Second Education Project approved
earlier in FY82, and is planned under the project described in the present
report, as well as a separate operation now being prepared for technical
assistance to the rural sector. These projects are all expected to improve
Government's capacity for project preparation and monitoring in key sectors
of the economy, and will thereby help the Government to make prudent invest-
ments in operations which are well adapted to the particular circumstances
of Mauritania. The proposed Second Technical Assistance Project would spe-
cifically identify ways in which procedures within the administration can be
improved, and the traditional bottlenecks in project execution eliminated.
18.       The Bank Group presence in Mauritania was fairly substantial in
the early seventies, and in 1970-72 it was the third largest donor (providing
about 18 percent of Mauritania's external capital assistance) behind France
(21 percent) and the EEC (19 percent). Since then, external financial assis-
tance to Mauritania has increased rapidly, and in recent years the Bank
Group's share has decreased to about 6 percent. The importance of the Bank's
economic and technical advice remains strong, however, and there exists sub-
stantial scope for implementing a country development strategy which empha-
sizes: (a) dialogue with the Government on financial and economic issues,
all in cooperation with the IMF and other external aid donors; (b) technical
assistance to help improve national economic management and increase the
country's absorptive capacity; and (c) direct project assistance for a few
high-priority operations, with special emphasis on mobilizing and coordinating
the provision of large amounts of external aid from the Arab OPEC countries
and from traditional donor agencies.
PART III - THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN MAURITANIA
19.       The Mauritanian Government has made considerable efforts since
Independence to improve the national education system and to increase the
quantity of trained local manpower; nevertheless, primary school enrollment
of school-age children remains less than 30 percent, and the population's
literacy rate in Arabic or French is only 17 percent. The total number of
secondary school graduates remains low, and they eventually satisfy only about
30 percent of the demand for skilled-worker and middle-managerial and profes-
sional positions. This shortage of skilled manpower affects all segments of
economic life, but is particularly acute in Government services. The various
problems caused by the shortage are compounded in the case of the public
administration and parapublic agencies by rapid expansion of the sector in
the past three or four years, and by high staff turnover caused by frequent
political changes. Therefore, while Government would wish to gradually free
itself from the influence of large-scale external support, it nevertheless
recognizes that the need for technical assistance in all areas of domestic
public administration and economic management will continue for some time to
come.



- 6 -
20.       Technical assistance in Mauritania is provided by several bilat-
eral and multilateral agencies, with France giving the single largest share.
This assistance is particularly crucial to the functioning of the education
system, where expatriates still comprise a full 60 percent of secondary school
teachers. Technical assistance personnel also feature largely in many Minis-
tries (notably Finance and increasingly in Rural Development) and in public
agencies, where they provide active operational support to local staff. This
support has been overwhelmingly for the provision of specialized technical
expertise, although a few expatriate personnel have been in positions where
they could offer policy advice and important managerial assistance. Of these
latter, two advisers financed by the French FAC have been assigned to the
Cabinet of the Minister of Economy and Finance for the past two years to work
on fiscal policy; but even in this case, their responsibilities are more
directed to improving tax assessment and recovery procedures than with overall
public finance policies. There is therefore a clear and continuing need for
an operation which can offer the Government at the same time both important
technical guidance and broad policy advice.
21.       While the technical assistance efforts as noted above have con-
siderable merit, overall effectiveness of the operations in which they are
involved remain limited by cumbersome administrative procedures and constant
reshuffling of the Government and restructuring of its institutions; by the
high turnover of technical staff, and continuing difficulties in finding
competent expatriate candidates; and by the general shortage of, and lack
of incentive among, qualified Mauritanian counterpart personnel. This has
resulted in a widespread concentration of the work of expatriate advisers
on routine administrative tasks, and a relative neglect of more substantive
issues. In addition, since the country has access to considerable resources
in the form of official development assistance and suppliers' credits, there
has been a tendency to enter into investments which are not based on adequate
sectoral priorities or rational selection criteria.
22.       Within this overall context of technical assistance activities,
the Association has played its most active role at the operational level,
mostly in the provision of project managers. In an extension of this effort,
IDA has financed technical assistance to help the Government build up its
capacity for investment planning, and to strengthen project preparation and
selection in the rural sector. Particular sectoral operations (notably in
education, highways, and petroleum development) have also included financing
for studies and services of long-term advisors to help improve sectoral
planning within particular technical ministries.
23.       The First Technical Assistance Project to the Ministry of Planning
(MP) was identified and prepared during the mid-70s when the serious deterio-
ration in Mauritania's public investment performance became apparent to the
Bank and to key officials in the Ministry. It was clear that efforts to
remedy the deficiencies would have to be undertaken at several levels: (a)
a better perception was needed of where Mauritania's long-term comparative
advantage existed; planning efforts would have to be re-oriented, and proj-
ect identification work undertaken, on the basis of a realistic assessment
of development potential and priorities; (b) the overall process for project



- 7 -
selection, preparation, and monitoring needed to be gradually improved; and
(c) expert assistance was needed to advise Government on a broad range of
economic and financial policies. Following discussions with Bank staff on
macroeconomic policies, the Government requested IDA to provide a five-man
team of resident experts (two macroeconomists, and three sector economists in
industry, agriculture, and transport). In making this request, the Government
expected that the team would review and help implement the new Third Five-Year
Investment Plan (1976-80), assist both MP and the technical departments and
parapublic agencies with project identification and preparation, and train a
few selected Mauritanian economists and project officers in macroeconomic
management and project evaluation. Although the Association had some reserva-
tions about the sectoral composition of the Third Plan, it agreed to finance
the proposed team, assuming that the project content of the Plan and the
overall structure of future investment programs could be positively influenced
by sound economic advice and expertise. Credit 665-MAU (US$2.7 million
equivalent) was approved by the Executive Directors in November 1976 and
became effective in April 1977.
24.       As it turned out, the project was implemented in an environment that
was very different from the situation during its preparation. Escalation of
the Sahara conflict in 1977-78 destroyed tthe country's political stability and
created acute short-term economic and public finance problems which needed
urgent solutions, and which took priority over long-term investment programming
and attention to careful project identification and preparation. The work of
the IDA-financed team was therefore diverted from revision and implementation
of the Third Plan, and focussed instead on: (i) providing the macroeconomic
framework for the 1978 Financial and Economic Rehabilitation Program; (ii)
contributing to design of the Program's austerity measures; and, (iii) helping
to monitor their implementation. Consequently, instead of preparing a large
number of new projects as intended, the team spent considerable time reviewing
the economic and financial viability of ongoing projects, including the sugar
refinery which in the end never started production, and the oil refinery for
which more detailed studies (to be financed under the Petroleum Exploration
Project) will be carried out.
25.       Another major task undertaken by the team (assisted by short-term
consultants) was a comprehensive review of the situation and prospects of 20
public agencies and parapublic enterprises in several sectors, including the
design of recovery programs to provide additional working capital to selected
enterprises as necessary. In addition, in a situation where there was little
room for large new investments, the team helped Government to re-orient its
industrial policy towards labor-intensive small-scale enterprises and revise
the Investment Code, and studied the need for and implications of price and
incentive policies required to improve food production. Finally, the tech-
nical assistance operation allowed development of a system of data collection
on ongoing projects to facilitate monitoring and supervision. Ex-post evalua-
tion and sectoral studies carried out under the team's supervision have
provided the basis for several elements of the Fourth Five-Year Investment
Plan now under preparation. In view of the above, the project did not (and
could not have) achieve all its initial objectives, but it has nevertheless
contributed substantially to the recent improvement in Mauritania's public
finance and investment performance.



- 8 -
26.       One weakness in project implementation was in the area of training.
The technical assistance did make an important contribution to the training
of a small number of Mauritanian economists who worked directly with them in
the Planning Ministry; however, the experts had little time available to orga-
nize formal seminars and training programs that could reach a larger group
of administrative and technical specialists. This shortcoming has been recog-
nized in the design and preparation of the proposed second project, and special
efforts will be made to ensure effective training of counterpart personnel.
Organizational Structure of National Planning Functions
27.       Responsibilities for national development programs are assigned to
MP, but the organizational structure to carry out these responsibilities has
changed frequently over recent years. Even within the implementation period
of the First Technical Assistance Project there were several reorganizations,
and the team found itself having to make frequent adjustments to these changes.
Within MP, two departments remain primarily responsible for planning and
project preparation. The Department of Studies and Programming (Direction des
Etudes et de la Programmation - DEP) is responsible for monitoring macroeco-
nomic developments, formulating national plans and sectoral investment pro-
grams, and coordinating investments at the regional level. The Department of
Projects (Direction des Projects - DP) is responsible for project evaluation
and supervision, and for negotiations with external financing agencies. This
organization is, in fact, a simple one and would normally be expected to
function effectively; however, there have been several cases of considerable
overlap between the functions of the two departments on important and sensi-
tive issues, and this has considerably diminished the effectiveness of their
respective functions. Government has agreed to establish and maintain clear
and distinct terms of reference for each department, and will ensure that
each professional staff member understands his particular function in execut-
ing these terms of reference (Section 3.08 of draft Development Credit
Agreement).
28.       A significant organizational point concerns the parapublic sector,
for which the technical assistance team under the first project carried out a
comprehensive review. Since then, a Department of Financial Control (Direc-
tion de la Tutelle Financiere - DTF) was established in 1981 within MEF with
responsibilities for monitoring the situation of the parapublic sector, includ-
ing evaluation of the economic and financial prospects of public enterprises.
Specialist services in accounting, management, and training will be provided
to the Department by the International Labor Office (ILO) with funding from
UNDP. The technical assistance team to be financed under the proposed second
IDA project will work closely with the ILO team and with DTF itself to carry
out a comprehensive analysis of investment planning and project programming
for the parapublic sector, and to prepare medium-term recovery programs for
individual public enterprises as appropriate.



- 9 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
29.       The proposed Second Technical Assistance Project would continue
efforts started under the first operation to establish a competent analysis
of Mauritania's macroeconomic situation, to make realistic projections of
available domestic and external resources and, on this basis, to effect
improvements in short- and long-term investment planning and monitoring. The
project was identified in September 1980, and appraised in July 1981. Since
then, continuing discussions have been held with Government to establish
clearly its objectives and expectations for the project, and to prepare the
groundwork for efficient implementation. Negotiations were held in Washington
D. C., on June 17, 1982, with a Mauritanian delegation led by S.E. Dieng Boubou
Farba, Minister of Economy and Finance. There is no Staff Appraisal Report.
30.       The proposed project, to be implemented from 1982-86, includes
provision for:
(a)  four expert advisers.  A team leader (general economist) to co-
ordinate and supervise the work program, and to advise the Minister
of MP on macroeconomic policy (para. 32). Two sector specialists
to provide advice in:  (i) industry, fisheries, and small-scale
enterprises; and, (ii) rural development including livestock,
dry-land farming, and irrigated agriculture (paras. 33-35). A
financial analyst to assist in: (i) updating recovery programs for
about 20 key public enterprises; and, drafting "program-contracts"
(para. 36); and, (ii) providing support to the team's sector
specialists.
(b)  about 110 man-months of short-term consultancies for feasibility
studies and review of particular aspects of sectoral issues.
Specialized consultants would be engaged from time to time to help
fill gaps in the expertise of each adviser in their respective
fields, and to work on special development issues, for example, in
urbanization, health and nutrition, and human resource development;
(c)  services of 16 local professional staff (including 12 presently
employed in DEP and DP, and 4 to be recruited during project imple-
mentation). These professional staff would work closely with the
expatriate experts, and would participate actively in training
programs provided under the project; and
(d)  scholarships for short-term overseas training programs, and pro-
vision for planning and implementing local training seminars on
issues related to public finance, parapublic enterprises, and
economic development generally.
Project Organization and Implementation
31.       The project would be directly attached to the Cabinet of the
Minister for Planning, and would be managed by the leader of the technical



- 10 -
assistance team under the supervision of the Minister. The team leader would
continue to have the Government's agreement to exercise appropriate power and
authority in carrying out his obligations as spelled out in the team's terms
of reference (Section 3.03 (b) of draft DCA). The team would be expected to
work in close collaboration with the MP departments responsible for planning,
project operations, and financial control (paras. 27 and 28). An annual work
program including training would be established in agreement with the Govern-
ment and IDA by June 30 of each year. This program would specify how much of
the team's time would be allocated to the respective MP departments, taking
into account the nature of their responsibilities (Sections 3.10 and 3.11 of
draft DCA).
32.       Terms of reference of the technical assistance team would specify
that the team leader would help the Minister of MP to formulate and monitor
macroeconomic policy, in full collaboration with the Directors of the relevant
MP departments. Periodic meetings of the departments would be organized with
the Chief of the External Debt Service and representatives of the Central
Bank to review recent developments in the fields of public finance, investment
planning, balance of payments and debt management, and to propose recommenda-
tions to Government on macro-economic and investment policies.
33.       The project team would help DEP to formulate medium- and long-term
development strategies and annual investment programs and to monitor their
execution. Assistance would also be provided to DEP in implementation of
short-duration studies (in coordination with the technical Ministries) to
determine what institutional and administrative reforms may be needed in
particular sectors to allow a significant increase in the country's absorptive
capacity. The desired cooperation with technical Ministries is particularly
relevant for several other ongoing IDA-financed projects, and will be assured
in particular sectors by the presence of advisers in planning units financed
under the Second Education Project, the Technical Assistance Project to the
Rural Sector, and the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project.
34.       As regards the Department of Projects (DP), the proposed technical
assistance operation would continue and expand earlier efforts to strengthen
the system for data collection, processing, and analysis. The Government is
making its own deliberate efforts to strengthen DP, including drafting a decree
which makes the Department solely responsible for seeking official development
assistance for all projects, and authorizing the Department Director to sign
all withdrawal applications for externally-financed development projects. In
order to execute these responsibilities effectively, DP will have to provide
assistance to help the technical ministries improve their methods of project
identification, preparation and analysis, of presenting documentation request-
ing external assistance, and understanding the policies and procedures of
external aid agencies.
35.       The Department of Studies and Programming (DEP) now serves as the
Secretariat to the Investment Commission. However, the Commission reviews
only those investment proposals which seek access to benefits offered under
the Investment Code, so that many large and important public investments
are in fact made outside of the Plan. The Government now wishes to emphasize
the importance of efficient development planning and to improve methods of
project selection. It has therefore agreed under the proposed project to



- 11 -
establish a system in which all public investments of over US$3 million
equivalent would be subject to a detailed economic review. A draft proposal
for such a system would be submitted to the Association for review and comment
by June 30, 1983, and the agreed procedures would be officially established by
December 31, 1983 (Section 3.12 of draft DCA).
36.       Parapublic Sector.  The technical asistance team would also work in
close collaboration with the ILO advisers in the new Department of Financial
Control. Particularly, they would assist in promoting the use of a systematic
accounting procedure among the key public enterprises, and would complement
ILO's management and training program as necessary, using provisions under the
project for scholarships and for the organizing of local seminars (para. 37).
The team would also be responsible for updating recovery programs prepared
under the first project for 20 major enterprises, and for helping to implement
these programs as appropriate, including required management reforms. The
team would also assist Government and selected public enterprises in establish-
ing and implementing a system of "program-contracts" which would transform the
recovery programs into detailed action plans and performance indicators to be
monitored by management of the enterprises and by the appropriate ministries.
37.       Training.  The proposed project envisages three types of training
activities as follows:
(a)  on-the-job training.  Staff of DEP and DP would be increased by four
new Mauritanian graduates (with the equivalent of Master's degrees
in macro or sector economics) to be recruited by Government (Section
3.06 of draft DCA). The Government has provided a program of
recruitment for these staff members and a list of duties to be
performed. The project would also provide a specialist in training
on periodic short-term assignments to establish a detailed program
to be carried out during specified times (say 4-6 months) for each
of the 12 existing staff in the two Departments. Government would
carry out an annual review of performance by the respective staff
members on their agreed work programs (Section 3.07 of draft DCA).
The resident project advisers would offer continuing assistance and
guidance to local staff.
(b) Scholarships. The project makes provision for short-term overseas
scholarships to allow selected staff members who respond well to
the on-the-job training, and who have had at least one year of
service in MP, to develop specialized skills. Scholarship funds
would also be made available to the technical ministries for quali-
fied staff with at least one year of service, and with priority
given to personnel responsible for sectoral planning and project
preparation. Following Government's recommendations, the Associa-
tion would approve the qualifications of each candidate, and the
objectives and program of the proposed training (Section 3.10 of
draft DCA). Additionally, in an attempt to increase the exposure of
Mauritanian staff to the workings of a large organization and a
large group of financial interlocutors, the project includes
provision for periodic short trips to World Bank headquarters
by staff of MP, to be planned in agreement with the Association.



- 12 -
(c) Training Budget. The project includes funds for recruitment of
short-term specialized training consultants, and for office supplies
and other operating costs to prepare in-country seminars dealing
with macro-planning, the project preparation cycle, business manage-
ment, and related financial or economic issues. The resident
advisers would arrange and supervise the seminars, and would guide
the preparation of appropriate programs. Detailed proposals for all
training programs to be financed under the project would be submitted
to IDA for review and approval (Section 3.10 of draft DCA).
Project Costs and Financing
38.       Total project costs (net of taxes and duties) are estimated at
US$5.2 million equivalent, including foreign costs of about US$4.1 million
(about 80%). The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 4.1 million (US$4.6 million
equivalent) would finance 100% of the foreign costs and about 39% of the local
costs, representing about 85% of total project costs; remaining local costs of
US$0.8 million equivalent would be provided by the Government. Cost estimates
are based on actual experience and disbursement records under the ongoing
First Technical Assistance Project. Cost of consultants (including allowances
and travel) would average about US$10,000 per man-month for resident advisers,
and about US$12,500 per man-month for short-term experts. Costs for vehicles,
materials, and equipment include physical contingencies of 10%, and price
contingencies of 8.0% annually for 1982-83, 7.5% for 1984 and 7.0O for 1985.
Costs for resident advisers, consultants, local salaries, scholarships, and
operating costs include price contingencies of 8.0% annually for 1982-83, 7.5%
for 1984 and 7.0% for 1985.
39.        In response to the clear need to induce staff to remain in the
public sector and also to motivate new personnel to join MP, the project
would finance salary premiums for Mauritanian professional staff in the DEP
and DP. This is a practice which already exists for local staff of the DTF
as part of a UNDP-financed technical assistance operation. Government has
therefore agreed to prepare a reward system which would provide adequate
incentives to the staff of DEP and DP by December 31, 1984 and to have
implemented the system by October 31, 1986 (Section 3.09 of the draft DCA).
Procurement and Disbursements
40.       Selection of resident advisers and short-term consultants would be
done in consultation with, and under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
(Section 3.03 (a) of draft DCA). however, the team leader and the two sector
specialist advisers have already been working effectively under the first
project, and Government has agreed that their contracts would be extended
under the proposed second operation. IDA supports the Government's wish to
use qualified local consultants as much as possible, either independently or
in collaboration with foreign firms. Nonetheless, because of the shortage of
qualified consultants in Mauritania, most technical assistance would have to
come from foreign consulting firms. Because of the small size and proposed
timing of individual purchases of vehicles, equipment and materials, amounting
to a total of US$100,000, procurement would be by local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to IDA. For contracts under $10,000 equivalent, local
shopping would be employed (Schedule 3 of the draft DCA).



- 13 -
41.       Proceeds from the proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) for resident advisers and short-term consultants, 100% of total
expenditures (US$2,980,000 equivalent);
(b) for equipment and vehicles, 100% of total expenditures
(US$110,000 equivalent);
(c) for operating costs:
-    office supplies, 54% (US$55,000);
-    special staff allowance, 100% (US$76,000);
-    fuel and maintenance costs, 54% (US$40,000);
-    secretarial services, 89% (US$166,000);
(d) for training:
-    consulting services, 100% (US$37,000);
-    operating costs including office supplies, 54%
(US$70,000);
-    scholarships, 100% (US$200,000);
(e) initial Deposit into the Special Account (US$100,000).
After refinancing advances under the PPF (US$500,000), an amount of US$266,000
would remain unallocated. Disbursements would be fully documented, except for
those made against special allowances, secretarial services, office supplies,
and operating costs for the project and for training, where certified state-
ments of expenditures would be used. Detailed documentation for the latter
would be retained by the Borrower and made available for inspection by
supervision missions (Section 4.01 (b) of the draft DCA).
42.       Following the practice under the First Technical Assistance Proj-
ect, MP would establish and maintain accounts for all project expenditures,
except for salaries of the resident advisers which would be paid directly
in order to avoid delays in salary payments. For other project expenditures,
two revolving funds would be established to facilitate project implementation.
The first revolving fund, referred to as the Special Account, would cover all
items financed by IDA, except consultant services for which direct payment
procedure can be used, and salaries and allowances of resident advisers.
Opening of the Special Account in a treasury account, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit (Sections 2.02(c) and 5.01(a) of the draft DCA). Upon Credit effective-
ness, an amount of US$100,000 equivalent would be withdrawn from the Credit
account for deposit into the Special Account. Further replenishments would be
made by IDA on receipt of satisfactory evidence that expenditures paid out of
the Special Account were eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Credit.   However, should any disbursement from the Special Account fail to
meet eligibility criteria, the Government would have to deposit the correspond-
ing amount into the account from its own resources (Section 2.02(d) and (f) of
draft DCA).



- 14 -
43.        As an additional condition of Credit effectiveness, the Government
would open another account, referred to as the Borrower's Account, in a
treasury account for payment of its own counterpart contributions. Govern-
ment would make an initial deposit of US$50,000, and would replenish the
Borrower's Account every quarter on the basis of supporting documentation for
expenditures incurred and project expense forecasts (Sections 3.02 and 5.01(b)
of draft DCA). Both the Special Account and the Borrower's Account and
supporting records, as well as certified statements of expenditures, would
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA (Section 4.01
(b) and (c) of draft DCA). The proposed Credit includes provision for the
required auditing services.
Project Benefits and Risks
44.        The proposed project has been designed primarily to help the
Mauritanian Government focus on the country's financial and economic problems,
and to formulate a coherent macroeconomic policy and implement it efficiently.
By so doing, the project is expected to go a long way in strengthening the
skills and experience of local staff, so that tasks similar to those under the
project could be continued on a systematic and sustained basis. Consequently,
the major benefit expected from the proposed project would be the continuation
of prudent financial and economic management, and carefully planned training
of local personnel. Additional benefits are expected from improvements in the
parapublic sector, from the establishment of a pipeline of well-prepared
directly productive projects, and from more efficient use being made of
domestic and external resources due to better screening of planned investments
and increased attention to project implementation.
45.       To ensure that the benefits as suggested above are realized, par-
ticular care has been taken during project preparation: (a) to recruit a
highly qualified team leader and to introduce him to the job under the First
Technical Assistance Project; two other advisers would continue their assign-
ments as sector specialists (rural and industrial), since they have proved
their effectiveness under the first operation; and (b) to give a substantial
amount of financial autonomy to the project so that neither the Government's
financial difficulties nor delays in administrative procedures would seriously
jeopardize implementation.
46.        The most serious project risk concerns the recruitment and retention
of competent local staff, given the existing shortage of qualified personnel,
and the fact that the opportunities open to them in the parapublic and private
sectors are more attractive than the proposed project can offer. This problem
will continue to be a difficult one for some time; but to some extent, the
risk is limited by the small number of new local staff to be recruited under
the project, and the fact that continued financing of salary premiums is
proposed. There is an additional risk that the policy and program recom-
mendations which would arise from the work of the project would not be adopted
by Government, but it is expected to reduce this risk through a well-designed
work program in which the local professional staff will have fully participated.
IDA would also make special efforts in this regard by carrying out regular
reviews directly with the authorities concerned on the results of feasibility
studies and the recommendations proposed for sector policies and programs, and
then by ensuring that appropriate follow-up measures are taken.



- 15 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
47.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Mauritania and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
48.       Special conditions of the draft Development Credit Agreement are
listed in Section III of Annex III of this report. Special conditions of
Credit effectiveness include: (i) opening of the Special Account (para. 42);
and, (ii) opening of the Borrower's Account together with an initial deposit of
US$50,000 (para. 43).
49.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
50.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
September 1, 1982



-  16   -                                  ~~~~~Annex  I
Page 1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
MAURITANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MAURITANIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVlAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL           1030.7                                     MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     394.5                  1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     100.0       200.0     440.0                250.8                  1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         18.0       170.0      195.6                 66.5                   610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)      889.0      .1138.0    1462.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    3.4          12.8      23.0                 17.8                   28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           2.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                             9.9
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           0.9         1.1        1.4                 27.7                   54.7
PER SQ. KH. AGRICULTURAL LAND         2.2         2.9        3.6                 86.7                   129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            44.0        45.3       45.8                 44.8                   46.0
15-64 YRS.                            53.3        52.0      51.5                  52.3                   51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2.7         2.7        2.7                  2.9                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.2         2.5        2.5                  2.7                    2.8
URBAN                                16.2        15.8       8.4                   6.2                    5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        50.7        49.9       50.3                 47.3                   47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        27.1        23.9       21.5                 19.5                   15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.4         3.4        3.4                  3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)           ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)       ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            107.0       102.0       75.0                 88.7                   90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     101.2        94.9       93.8/c               90.2                   93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             87.5        83.6       77.17W               53.1                   54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          55.2        54.3       46.37W               18.4                   17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        42.7        36.1       30.6                 26.7                   23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)       37.2        40.3       43.2                 45.6                   51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             184.5       161.9      142.9                129.9                  118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..        17.0        ..                  23.9
URBAN                                  ..        98.0       16.0/d               54.9
RURAL                                  *         10.0         ..                 18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..        ..                  25.8
URBAN                                  ..          ..        ..                  63.1
RURAL                                  ..          ..        ..                  20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            37041.7    16735.3   13697.0/c              32097.3                14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        4994.7/e    4199.3    1982.57W              3264.6                 2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              4379.3      2709.5   2488 1/c f             1225.0                 1036.4
URBAN                                  ..       653.5    1250.67W'              249.5                  430.8
RURAL                              4797.9/1ef  5036.9    3536.87Wt?            1712.1                 3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..         ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                  ..          ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                  ..          ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                  ..          ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..



- 17 -                                        Annex I
Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
HAURIY1TF -SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MAURITANIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVl AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDULATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRlMARY:     TOTAL                   8.0         14.0      28.0                   63.2                    83.3
MALE                  13.0         20.0       36.0                  72.7                     96.1
FEMALE                 3.0          8.0      20.0                   50.3                     80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   0.4          2.0       6.0                   10.2                    15.3
MALE                   1.0          3.0       11.0                  13.2                     19.4
FEMALE                 0.04         0.4       2.0                    6.6                     11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)    ..           12.5         ..                   7.9                      4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             20.0         24.0      41.3/c                 47.4                    38.6
SECONDARY                           16.8         24.0      25.0C                  26.2                    23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          5.0         10.0       17.0                  34.0                    35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.4          3.6         ..                   3.0                    31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          13.5         48.3      77.1                   34.8                    71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..        ..                    1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..          2.5         ..                   2.9                    19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..       0.3/c                  1.1                     0.6
LAbOR FORCE
TOTAELLABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        274.4        339.2     418.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     3.8          4.1       4.3                   34.1                    36.3
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               91.0         88.0      85.0                   78.4                    56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.0          4.0       5.0                    9.2                    17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.9         29.8       28.6                  41.4                    37.0
MALE                                  59.8         57.8      55.6                   53.9                    46.9
.ZMALE                                 2.3          2.4       2.4                   29.1                    27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.6        1.7                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                 134.3                   507.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     110.                   82.9                   200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ,.           ..     330.0                  96.4                    523.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..     120.0                   60.4                   203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                  39.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..                   69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c 1977; /d 1976; /e 1962; /f Government hospital establishments only.
May, 1982



- 18 -                                                                               Annex I
DEIIISOFSM           ICTR                                                                  Page  3  of5  pages
Mae:Although the data ate draw  fre soresgneal  judged the mast authoritative and reliable, It should als  be notd that they may not he inter-
nationaly  -a,perabie~ becaus  of the lark of stsdaedleed definition  and concept, used by difftLeretcn             isIt collecting thedae, "r.The daaer..             ec
the le..s . usful to describe orders of  egnitude. indicate ttends. and  haracteris certain major differences  atenconrr 
The  eeec 1:1~Iguoups re ll t'~,he naeconr   goP of rho nub Jeoc cou.t.  and (2 (anntygru    t   omwa  ihigheraverge, Incom   that the   . co lyr group
of the sub] et country lenept for   "HIghIncome   OilEtportrn" group attre  'Middle IncomeNorth AfrIca and Mlddle  an"Ich.se. because of stron.ger
soclo-culural all olciesI.In the  rfcuegroup data the a-rges are pop,laflJo  vishfed aithmetic means foe each  odlcacor ao1d nhaZ olI                    ae
majoriy o  thI    outn      l  a group has data for thatL itdi-atr.-  tioce the coverage of conre            Rno  the Lud Ic_tor  depensonte  nlei  'hy'f  at
and is not    f.lrs, cauion muc he enercised in relating aoegsof one indicator toarthr   Thes.. eae   reolusfL.I  opro  th dolu   f.
on  Indicatr.  an   time a-o  the country and r  eec  groups.
AREA Ithbou.and nq.km.l                                                                            ouainprHsIa   ed -ttl   es,adrol-Pplto    ttl
Totl.  - Tonalcur ac  ae  cwtn    laud are  aod inland wate..; 1979 data,                         ura,ad rarel  dloded bytheLIr respect irenmbru  hosptlbd
Agrirultr-l - Estim-t  of agricu1itur.l area used te,mpurstily or permansany                      arolable to putic sed petosne genera  ao .d specialimed hospitll. ade-
foe  -proes  patre,mrket and kitchet gardens or to II. fallow; 1919 data,                      hubitlitatio  cetrs.   Nopitu,ayes a   sh-,n,, pemntletflfed
byatleston  Physiciar. Establisheut  proiigpicplyomo
GNP PiER CAPITA 10111 - GOP Per cep ita es     Ltna  Loyren  market plicru. cal-                    din  nar  ar   o   nlde.RrlhsItl.h nr  intlude healeb
rlatefd hy-y nm ovrsion method As World Bank Atlas (1971940 hasinl; 1960,                         and medica  cenersno  permanenly steffed hy a physficia  (but by A
1910  ..ad 19L  daa,mdiasustn .  us, Iwfe  et.                                                                                                   itih offerL t-patintaroe
dation wed proide a Limtd range at medica ifacil!itie.  Poertts
ENERGY CONSUMPtTION PiR CAPtTA -  onAl.  cronsuPtion of Corcla1 eneryj (ca.ie   upue   ra   opinaLn  -Inlde WtHOn prIncplgnrlhmie
and ligniteP.... pet .em  natural gan andhydro-  .nulear en.d geothera  n1c-_                     and ruraL hos~pitals, Lnc   or rareI hospitlsl and medical end maternity
cc~ Iciy) in kilograms of coleqialn  per capital 1960i  1970, nod 1909                            centrs..  Spe Lalleed hospitals era includedonly underut1
data,Admissions per nospita1 Bad - Totl1 number of adnisnions to or discharges
from hospitlsl divided by the number of beds.
POPUILATION ANDO VITAL. STATISTICS
Total Populatan., Old-Year (th ...a.d.) - ho of July 1; 1960. t970, nod 1960                 HOUSING
data.                                                                                        Average Sine of Hleasehold (pelrsons pr hu-ebod).  1-toal  utben, end rural-
urban Populaion (percent o1 tota) - BAcllo of urton to ro-n  pupulan ion                          A house hold consists of agroup of idivIdual. nh  share livying quete
different deftlicinnu of urban arean  may  ffec  co`Patablicy of data                           andtheir malt mels   A boarderorlo.dger may or may not he included In
ameng count ries; 1960, 1970  ..ad 1II   dalf.                                                 the hh..sebhid for-tatistca  pupoes
Paualo   nyer20  - CurrentL population projectiuns ure hated on 19Sf                     her of prospero   nalubn   n  rua   Louped  onnnt.onL'
total Popullaion by ag -n   e   nd:    thi   or  ttyadletdiy  ue.wlins                                     _ePwtt..e... Y,  eel ings eul ldr  o-emnn  srcue   n
PrJectionprmeesfor sml ty race  copi    f three  anlseso-                                  uocpepats.
Log lIfeepcay anbrrinr tg hat    onr's" peronpica Income                                   Accent to ilorc       pecnfo elIns  -ttt urban, and ral -.
leel  ad "al   Lf  enpctnc   annbl len    t0.   er.  The pata-                          CotnRo1delnsnbeecrct   nlvn    uresa
meters for fectlityrat  als  hae  hreeelatnngdcieI                                          of tota.1  urben, and rura  d-ellings  epctv 
ahcutYIste L      sngnd oe  f _et  tre   ohia lt  ofwrtly                         tlllCATIONi
and fertility trends forpoecinpupsn                                                        Adj..tad  Rnolmngllon
Statinaryyopoaclo-Inacuc  coar  poplaIo  ter   I   cgotaLie                           Prmr   coo      oo  . mALe and fensu-irn   toa P.                maean   eml
rhe birth rate isequal cc the dethrue  and -lto  he ageururu   r-                               enoleto lI gea   h   rmr   evla   ecnae   f rasPertn
mains conn.an.. Thi  in achieved only afterfertilIty  -aren dectins to                          primay school-age pnp.uILars  -oralY includes chitdean aged h-1li
rhe raplacement le-1 of colt ve  reprodution rate,  h..n each generation                       Yena  u  adjusted foe differeo1t         E leghs  ot primary educa ion; for
Tl ome  rrlaeuinef enly.  Th  nninnay Populatio Ileewascoutries wIh  Itura   duu  o   nrlmn   ay enceed 101 percent
estimaedonrh lhanbis of- the  rjce    hratruso  tho  olco                                      nince som   ppila are  eo     bo hv  the officiLe  scholge
In the year li00. and therein  of decline of fertiliy rene no yrplace                        Srcdondry nchool - total, male and female - Computd as above; secodarr
men  level.                                                                                    edction require  at ALe..es four years of appeoed primaryisrcin
Vetsat-      ns  ponularico in reached- Th. yea  when .tin ..usty population                     provides genrl..        a  onl  or1 teac.L L.herl trining instruct lots for PuPIs
uise till be reahed.                                                                           usualy tf 12 L. 17 years of agel cores.pond.enc  corss  e  genatelly
Per an  k.   -  l-erppuIlatio  pee sqnekilom ete  1100 hectarasl of                          voatonl_  en.roile     (rercent of mcodey)          - Lfrio... Ins.titutions
ttlue;1 .1970 and 197da.                                                           include technical, IndutIl  or hr proram   ahIch operate  ind.pnd-
Per s. A.  ag    Iuno l lod - Cop_cd an alon  for agricultural laud                            e-tly or em depsemnno.ncuayInttto
onZlY;l1960.S1971 and 1979 dan.                                                              Puptl-teacher rAtio - primay, and  letondwry- Totl std,, Isentled LIn
PopultIon  ge Stuctue 1 percen)   Childrlen  10-CA  yearL.) .-eokig-age (IS-               primary and secondary Ieeln dicided by toem o           Lechrsi  the
Alyas.no4eie   (1 1yearn and ove) an perenagnof aid-year popc-                                 correponding lerelt.
Iair   90   00  go~d 1900 LdAt.                                                    Adult li fteLyacr.ae  lerceotn  - Liteesne Adults lable to red end ante)
Pouato IGothgn  (p.eren) - total - Aoonla grwtr eaten of tota  eid-                    asparcen-nn   of total adult  poplation eted IS yearn andovr
Yer Fpp  fnio fr 1900-hO  196-70. ad 1970-80.
Population Growh Bat  (percen) -orhat-aevual  growth -ren of urban popa-                     CONSUMSPTION
muons.  for 1950460. 1960-70. and 1970-8h.                                                   Pan..engee Cars (pre  thousan d populatlanl   rnegor core coprise matt
Crude BtInt Bat (pe  theusadl) - ou`ual line births Per thousand of mid-year                     cassaig-esta  ight per....n; etc ldes  muane,hearses and
population; L960. 1970, and 1980 data.                                                           lL tray vehilen
Crude tenth Rate (pee thounar.d) - a-...I dentht per thousand  of mid-year                     Badl Recivr  lee"r thutand population) - All typen of reciversfo  radio
popultion  1961  197, and1900data,broacast  to generalPubLc per thou..od o   ausi                                                      or ue   n
crssapeodt cti  Ba               BeAeeg   combr of dautgtrnaenmanill hear LIn                   liooned recivers In conenad lvyarn rise  regintentlo   of redio
hernormarwproduclnaperidtfhntn.parieoces            ,l;.... pceine-pelfIcr-            einn a.ine!ffec    dain foerec...ent. yern  my.t.e.mblesIrce
itfy  rae;usal  fineyeaaerte    Lniu  in 1960  170, an   90                                     ot  onre blished li ...enstog.
Pnitvlnnn-  oa'cpotAeul(busns-,uatmen   aton                                                  TV'R:eci-ers (pee thuad  tuo         to)TV recivers forhodrst
of birt-contrl deoten undr auspice' o  naional (ily planning proram                     gnral puL  per thousan.dpouaion; etcludes uli .ce.ned t eevr
Pnsir ..nn.   -len  petino  mari"rie   oe)-Percernage of married11                             in counrIes and In yertn   aisrt o  of TV sets wani.f.t
wome  of child-b . eaingoge 1-44 years  who.s  bi-nh-c-uro   devices to                      Newspaper Circallaiot (ret thousand.po.pulatPion)- Shows the  vrg  oir-
al ineld  woe   nsm   ge group.                                                            cIlni-io  of '"dailygera  iners  neeppr'LeInedam   peiodical
ubrelndevoted yrmal ytoreorig gnlnw.It is conidered
POOP ANtD NUTRITION                                                                                no be "daily" if ir Appel-sti least fourL cte        kor.
I.d.o of rood.Productiond per Capita  19h-71100( - Irdec ci per.capita annual                  Ciead        lAtndnevrCaiapr  erttd on the noehee of
pe.odutLinf  Lifood cidie.Prrduton etc -Ldesed adfeed and                                      ticketa sold during the year. including admissions to dnne-in ciema
in on calendar peat ha.il.  Co-dliei  tone  primary goods (e.g. sugarcave                      and mabile  ila
ioateadufunrw          ihaedbleordr-vnainuoscienns  (e.g. cuff.esand
eaeecudd).  Aggrgoteproduto   oeah c0..0cry in baned o                                AO   O
nato-a  anLerae pedurer price woight,; 196I-h. 1970, oad 1900 dan.toTal1 Labor Froec  (thousan.ds) - Etco.omituy act ive persona, toctluding
Per cupito surely of cLor.iea  (perceot of rviaet)- Computd fro                                  armd fuec-  and ..raployrd hoc eL Lludig hous-inen ,stuen,.  tc
eargy, equivalen  of netIfodupitnnnlaeIncnryeraIa                                              con-ieg populutiou of all agem. DefinItL..n  in oar  oa  onre.r
pe a.AvaIlblenplimcmrisedoesi  productio.`  epor_  lean                                   no i cmpro Ale; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
euports, andchanges in sock,  net nupl ian earlode animal fend.newand,               FemaIe leercent  - resal  labo  forca  percentage of tote1 I.bor force.
quat iteusd i  odporso, nod 1o-se  in disteIru io.                       qire-                 Agriculture (percent) -'thefrei  nmi    oetry,. huntingan
=ent, wre estImated by PAO I..ed ton physooIa,           nesfrnomla -fitting us percentge of total inbor forre; h9h0, 1970 and 1900 data.
cIty and health cons.idering  eornetl teenue,bd   egt.ae                                       industry (percent) - tutor force LI siting, co              ..c.in . grfac gring
and se_dltib. L  otl    ofpplaln,ed allowing 10 perc_ni for wase a                               and rlect1tcln9y.0aster nd gas an p-rcetnege of tonal labor force;
bou..ahold leve; 1961 -65j.1970 and 1977 dat. 1P_I ...Lo    e                                     9 61, 1900 and 10 aa
Per capr ma spnir of Profei  (grass pc dan) --Poencnen   fprcpita                              Participation tact (percent) - total, maLIn  and fn.ae - Palrtlcipati ionr
orsppl  of Ifood pot dr.  f'nn suply of foodindeine           ea above   En-               activicy rats, ate couted en totL1, male, and female labor forre
allowancesof 60 gin   of tota  prtenper day and 20grs  ofaimlad                           19160, 190,ad.91980dat.   Teeaehtd  nIlspricpto    ae
poise p.rotin, o   hirl  10 gume should ha alta1 proteLIn   Thssad-                            reflecthgatetnsrue   ofit.oplain,an   onrime trend.  A
anial  roninan  n  verge   rtheword, Prooe  byru  i  teThrdIcnoi DependencjBt   - Balio of pcpulntiov under 15 and 65 adoe
World rood Survy; 196 14, cop  an7.d 1977 dat.                                                 no the iota o  1 labor force.
Per _ndia pronel n_pply iron  .nma and pul   -rni  sploffood de-
Lined iron animl,nod pulses LIn gr-  per day ; 1961405,1970 and 1977 dana.                INCOME DISTRIBUTION
ChilId (age  1-A I ah hote (reth ..o.n.nd) - coual deansprthousan d lv                         Pcetgof PIvate-- Inoe(both Iv cath and kind) - Receli-d by rIchbest
ugeg..oulIA  years1.nocildren  InthinaegoP,forecsnd.evei,intcun-                               I       orrennrnohoslprr-,nrs 72ecn.0nroeib                               ecn
tisdata derived fro. life  al,  1960.' 170 nod 1900 dntu.                                   of house hoLds.
HEALTHf                                                                                        POVERTY TARGET GR0UPS
Lif rinec any.:an P.1b (y.rena        rg  nuber of yearn of life romainiog                  the:lllf snge1   imaett re 'eyP"'timt  meaue  of poverty level.
at' birt;190  190nd190dt                                                                       ad should hel lirpraced:Zy  n       ..hcosderbl eetin
Infant Mortality R-i leer thousand) - Aenu-l deab   lifeaudroeyear                             itmtdAslt   oet  noetvl(S    e   apt)-rn   n   ua
of aepee tho.usand, trebirths,; ,1960, 1.970 end  900dat.-                                     Absolute poverty income level Is hbsi _Icm   leve  beowwich a miniml
Aces   o Oasatr  Leeco orfpplation  -talurban no.d rural - Nu.-                              narteii snlly Adeqonte diet plus... esenial nov-food requiremets is  tot
her of peeplelit. uthan . ad rursi.with re anbl  aces  to sale                                 affordAble.
lee   upy ( includes irnoted sraewtr  or         rtetdbtucnniedd                       Eslima=   teuivei Panery Iormeeve (0S' perspita) -urban and rutsl 
eae ,uh asta   rmpoetdbrhia   pig.adente    el)e                                            ua   aaiepoverty innon  leve  i...one-third of enAge Per  Pinp,
perrwca1m  a  theirrseciepopulatIons.    nnrbsnesepblieroe  icm   o  h  country.  Urban Lerel in derived-ftethrra
fountain or ansdy-nm     .. loaed  oi -rew then 100 meters frosa.h...ma.       e                eiwt  adjstmntorhighe  cost of lining  n-h-nerea-
tonsidered asb bin.gwishinreoa Lecemof then house.  In rural areas                          Lasmte uPpoeion HL- Absolute Poverty Inom  Levl-e1                    et   urban
reamonaie accss woud ilytl  that the housewife or members of the house.hold              an  rd L   -. Percen  of  .popurimit   (urbae und lotra( wha.r   abeolats
do tot hens to spend a dimptopottinAtw  pert of she day  in feerhing the                       ycour
family' m eater nsds.
Aces oRcet Osaac(are:        ofpalain -1 toa,ura,ad ruralj  -
percenna1gen of the ir renpectine poPulan ions   Encreta diapomal ma  nlu.de
th   uiniaesdda m.I  noaht orwisi   -teetet. af bnm ewtr.ta
and waste-wter hpetr-on    Ysir   oe  the use of pin privies and mim-
Pewpunl.ts eme Phys~icia- Popullaion dinidedi by e't- of preoniming phymi-                                                           Rununnir an  lnii  PeDts  Minnie
riesquliie   Pa  a medie  srhlatI       tericy lv.iaomtAsalysim  and Poj                                                                             Dias  tparemes
Pnenmein ea  NariagPsrwn - Popslatian divided by n.mber of peasitg                                                                           a  1962
maead Enma:legrae cm names,                 --tttnu .m  p_wonloaIn-rana ad
stet  _muiap ismd



Annex I
Page 4 of 5 Pages
- 19
MAURITUIA
ECOhOUC IINDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN  '931Y                                                                    A1T, RATW OF GROWTH (- constant  rices)k
US$ Eln.           .                                              1973-76             4977-80                1981i,
GNP at Market Prices              7>I.7             10040                                            f.0                 --                    5.2
Gross Domestic Investment         317.1              43.8                                             2.9                0.3                  16.7
Gross National Saving             205.4              28.3
Current Account Balance          -111.7             -15.4
Exports of Goods, NFS             362.8              50.1                                           -1.7                 0.8                  -1.4
Imports of Goods, NFS            -522.8             -72.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980
Value Added                                 Labor Force                                   V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.   S                     ~~~~~~Thou.  SU   
Agriculture                       140.2     22.4                            357.1      85.4                                  392.6         26.2
Industry                          117.5     18.9                             20.5       4.9                                5,731.7
Services                          369.4     58.7                             40.6       9.7                                  08.
Unallocated                                                                    -         ...                               1,499.5        100.0
Total/Average                      lw                               I          0
CENITRAL GOVERNNEN FINANCE
UM .N10.                                       i of GDP
l23~~~~~~~~~~oi                           1 9778StO
Current Receipts                 6,433                                    17.7          20.1
Current Expenditure              8                                       -24.6         - 32
Current Surplus                 -2,502                                                 -11.1
Capital Expenditure-              s9_3.                                  -
Overall Balance                 -5,584                                   -15.3         -27.0
External Assistance (net)        4,o58                                    11.2          22.8
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES            1973           1977                  1981         Dec, 1981           Dec. 1980
(Million    outstanting end period)
Money and Quasi Money                1,882        5,059                 9,430          9,430               7,080
Claims on Public Sector             - 279         2,159                 3,257           3,257              2,554
Claims on Private Sector            2,858         7,304                10,337         10,337               9,155
(Percentages or Index Nuimbers)
Money and Quasi Money
as % of GDP                        16.1           20.2                 25.9
General Price Index (1977   100)    63.4           100.0                129.52/
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                   8.7           10.3                 10.
Claims on Public Sector             -28.7         294.7                  27.5
Claims on Private Sector             54.1          26.5                  12.9
Ngte: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
Provsio"
S      Estiabaed
Iron ore only
Including extra-budgetary expenditure
2/      1980



MA42 I
Page 5 of 5 Pages
- 20 _
I4NXAANrIA
TRADE. PA     8  AND cAPITAL FlOWS
I%BALACE OF PAYMENTS/                                                                   MEWHA   ISE ECPOARM  (AVEAGE 1979-81,
1973        12T            1981                                                      US $ MLn.
(Mllion US $)
tports of Goods, lP.S              144,7         178.4         362.8                     Iron Ore                         148.9             66.9
Imports of Goods, NFS             -5254.8       -                                       Fish Products                      68.3             30.7
Resource Gap (deficit x -)        _ 10.1        -195.3        -1lO.O                    All other ccmmdities                '5.4             2.4
Total                222.             100.0
Interest Payments (net)         -  2.0         - 14.6        - 19.0
Workers' Remittances            - 14.5         - 27.6        - 35.1
Other Factor Payments (net)   -  5.1              3.5           4.5
Net Transfers                      31.2         120.4          97.9
Bfaan2e on Current Account    - .5             -113.6        -111.7
Direct Foreign Investment          10.3           4.4          17.7             ZlUA  DEBT, DECE4B 31. 1981
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                 (11.o)         (87.5)       (129.3)JS $   n
Amortization                  (-2.4)       (-32.1)         (34.3)
Subtotal                        8.6          55.4           95.0                    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                      797.5
Capital Grants                      8.4          13.6          17.0                    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)             - 14.2          - 1.9       1- 2                       Total outstanding and Disbursed
Other Items n.i.e.              - 13.2          - 0.8      )                                                                               797.5
Increase in Reserves (4t)       -  0.7          - 42.8       -  8.2                 DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1981
Gross Reserves (end year)         44.9            77.2        178.8
Net Reserves (end year)             7.7         - 43.1       - 41.4                    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                        14.2
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstanding and Disbursed                      14.2
Fuel and Related Materials         1973          1977        1981
Imports
of which:  Petroleum        9.9           30.6        32.0
Ebxports                              -                  -
of which:  Petroleum         -             -           -                    IBRD/IDA LENDING as of May 30, 1982
RATE OF EXCHAGE                        1973         1977        1981
us $ 1.00 - uim                     44.54        45.68       47.00                                                                          AM
Outstanding and Disbursed         86.6             43.2
Undisbursed                       39.4                .4
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed
1/  Provisional
Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
July, 1982



- 21 -                             ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA (as of March 31, 1982)
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits expressed in US dollars
Loan or                                                  Amount Less Cancellation 1/
Credit                                                            (US$ million)
Number       Year   Borrower    Purpose                  Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
One Loan and Seven Credits fully disbursed                66.0    20.9         -
459-MAU     1974  Mauritania   Education                            3.8        0.0 2/
519-MAU     1975  Mauritania   Third Highway                        3.0        0.1
665-MAU     1976  Mauritania   Technical Assistance                 2.7        0.2
888-MAU     1979  Mauritania   Urban and Rural
Development                      8.0        3.4
1747-MAU     1980  SNIM           Guelbs Iron Ore          60.0                42.2
1068-MAU      1981  Mauritania   Gorgol Irrigation                  15.0       12.5
1175-MAU 3/4/1982  Mauritania   Petroleum                            3.0        3.0
1214-MAU 3/4/1982  Mauritania   Second Education                     5.7        5.7
TOTAL                                126.0    68.5       67.1
of which has been repaid            66.0      1.5
Total now outstanding                 60.0    67.0
Amount sold                     63.4
of which has been repaid    63.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA        60.0    67.0       67.1
Total undisbursed                     42.2    24.9       67.1
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Undisbursed amount of Cr. 459-MAU is US$41,295.22.
3/   Approved subject to replenishment of IDA's Commitment Authority.
4/   Not yet effective.



- 22 -                             ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B. Status of Projects in Execution
As of March 31, 1982 1/
Credit No. 459 MAU         Education Project:  US$3.8 million; Credit Agreement:
February 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation was delayed in 1975/76 because of weak project
management and the need to review the cost and content of the project in face
of higher than anticipated price escalation. Since alternative financing was
not available, the scope of the project was reduced with approval of the Execu-
tive Directors. The project now provides for: (a) a vocational training center
in Nouakchott; (b) a mining training program in Nouadhibou; (c) training pro-
grams for farmers on irrigated perimeters; (d) an experimental study of intro-
ducing reading, writing and arithmetic in the Koranic school system; and
(e) technical assistance for the Directorate of Planning. Project management
has improved and project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Con-
struction of the vocational training center has been completed, and the
courses started in March 1981. The farmer training component has been revised
to integrate it with Government irrigation projects. The Koranic school
experiment is nearly completed, but the results are inconclusive and the
Government intends to review some key issues that have been raised by the
experiment. The mining training and planning department components were
completed with alternative financing. The project is expected to be completed
by the middle of 1983.
Credit No. 665 MAU         Technical Assistance Project:  US$2.7 million;
Credit Agreement: December 9, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The aim of the project is to strengthen the Ministry of Planning
to enable it to exercise its responsibility as a central agency to integrate
overall plan and policy formulation with the preparation and financing of
sectoral programs and their related projects. The project provides a four-
year program to finance: (a) five professionals for the Ministry of Planning
to elaborate long-term general and sectoral strategies, set priorities,
identify projects, undertake economic and financial analysis, and train
Mauritanian counterparts to take over their tasks; and (b) temporary consul-
tants to deal with special subjects when needed. The project substantially
completed, a new team leader was recruited and is in the field since October
1981. The contracts of agricultural and industrial advisers have been extended
until the end of the project. The construction of the offices for the experts
has been completed. The team is assisting Government to complete the drafting
of the Five-Year Plan. Although now closed, final disbursement requests are
awaited.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 23 -                             ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Credit No. 888 MAU        Urban and Rural Development Project:  US$8.0
million; Credit Agreement: April 11, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project includes three separate components to provide financial
and technical assistance to: (i) the industrial sector for development of
small- and medium-scale enterprises promising substantially lower investment
costs per job than currently; (ii) the artisan sector for rehabilitating and
expanding the production of knotted carpets by decentralizing production and
improving training of weavers; and (iii) the agricultural sector for develop-
ment of 30 new irrigated schemes under village cooperatives, including an
adequate credit scheme. The project also provides consulting services to
study the feasibility of establishing a gypsum plaster brick industry to
replace expensive imported cement with locally-made bricks, and of creating a
new industrial zone in the capital city of Nouakchott. The study of the
plaster brick industry, and that of the industrial zone are completed. The
strengthening of the Industrial Development Bank for which technical assistance
is provided is progressing satisfactorily, and five projects eligible for
financing under the IDA line of credit have been approved. The artisan
component, which until recently, had been encountering considerable difficul-
ties, is now making good progress. Production, though still at a low level,
is picking up, and several decentralized units are being set up. The agency's
financial position however continues to remain weak, but a plan for consolida-
tion is under consideration. The agricultural component is progressing
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1747 MAU         Guelbs Iron Ore Mining Project:  US$60 million
Loan Agreement: December 14, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
This project consists of opening new mines and constructing bene-
ficiation facilities in order to replace the declining production of the iron
ore deposits currently being exploited in Mauritania in the Zouerate area
which will be depleted by 1991. The project will be implemented in two
phases. The first phase will produce 6 million tpy starting in 1984, followed
6 years later by the second phase which will bring into production another
6 million tpy. The Bank Loan of US$60 million is to help finance the first
phase, the total cost of which is about US$500 million. The main project
components are the supplying of mining equipment and railroad rolling stock,
the construction of the beneficiation plant and its ancillary facilities, the
extension of the port facilities, and the required engineering, project
management and training. The Bank Loan became effective on December 31, 1980.
Project implementation is delayed because of weak management. However, SNIM
is taking a number of measures to improve the situation.



- 24 -                             ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Credit No. 1068 MAU        Gorgol Irrigation Project: SDR 11.4 million (US$15
million equivalent); Credit Agreement: November 21,
1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
The project consists of: (1) construction of a regulating dam,
conveyance works, irrigation and drainage networks covering a gross area
of about 4,200 ha; (2) construction of roads, of buildings, and of social
infrastructure for 15 new villages; (3) purchase of agricultural transport
equipment and vehicles; (4) provision for initial operation and mainte-
nance of the above facilities and for the settlement of about 4,640 farm
families in the development area; and (5) provision, on credit, of services
and farm inputs to such families. The project is 100% financed by IDA and
eight other colenders. The IDA credit was declared effective on November 22,
1981 and disbursements started soon after. Execution of works is progressing
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 1175 MAU        Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project:
SDR 2.6 million (US$3.0 million equivalent);
Credit Agreement: December 23, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project will assist the Government's efforts in intensifying
hydrocarbon exploration and in establishing the basis for energy planning.
It comprises an exploration promotion component (technical assistance to
the Directorate of Mines and Geology, training, provision of equipment,
and construction of facilities) and the energy studies. The credit is not
yet effective; the present date for credit effectiveness has been extended to
September 30, 1982, since the Government has yet finalized the legal formali-
ties for effectiveness. However, these are now expected to be completed soon.
In the meantime, a seminar to promote petroleum exploration has been arranged
(financed under the project preparation facility), which was attended by 14
oil companies, and bids from interested companies are expected to be received
shortly by the Government. A summary energy study and proposed terms of
reference for follow-up studies will be reviewed shortly with the Government.



- 25 -                             ANNEX III
Page 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:   9 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                Government, with assistance
from IDA staff
(c)  Identification mission:             September 1980
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                  July 1981
(e)  Negotiations:                       June 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:   January 1983
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
Assistance as required in recruiting resident advisers and short-term
consultants.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government has given assurances on the following principal items:
(a) responsibilities of each department in MP concerned with project
execution, and for each staff member in DEP and DP, would be clearly
defined in agreement with IDA; and Government would carry out an
annual review of performance by each staff member on their agreed
work programs (paras. 27 and 31);
(b) an annual work program for the project would be established, in
agreement with the Government and IDA, by June 30 of each year
(para. 31);
(c) a draft proposal for a system to review all public investments of
over US$3 million equivalent would be submitted to IDA for comment
by June 30, 1983, and the agreed procedures would be officially
established by December 31, 1983 (para. 35);
(d) detailed proposals for all training to be carried out under the
project would be submitted to IDA for prior review and approval
(para. 37); and
(e) a reward system which would provide adequate incentives to the
staff of DEP and DP by December 31, 1984 and to have implemented
the system by October 31, 1986 (para. 39).



- 26 -                             ANNEX III
Page 2
Special conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) opening of the Special Account to cover selected items financed by
IDA (para. 42); and
(b) opening of the Borrower's Account for payment of the Government
counterpart contribution, and initial deposit of US$50,000
equivalent (para. 43).



16'  1?                                                  IBRD   16452
1                          M4A 19821
'2MAURITANIA
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA                                                                                        A F R I C
-             FPAVED ROADS                                                             MOROCCO
PAVED ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                             2_       _
LATERITE/EARTR ROADS
-------- TRAILS                                          p Aaiun
RAILROAD
AIRFIELDS                                                                                          |L
* INTERNATIONALAIRPORTS                                           \                                                     .
4o    PORTS RT                                              \                                                              I-,
- -INTERNATIONALSOUNDAFIES                                          r
INDICATES THE TERRITORY OF TIlE
FORMER SPANISH SAHARA                                             i WS Ar-Mogkrein  I                                       u        K
(WIESTERN SAHARA I                                                                                      '2-
FORMER |
o    so                                S   PA         N  I S  H      j      1< yPANIS,.
KILOMtETERS
2de                                             SAHARA                                                                                                    24
(Villa-Cisnoro;/
: / { +iO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~erik  
t  g>-                         @ Z  2rate_ ___ __  -- _ ~~~~~---- --------- --!--AL
MAL
adhi6ou                                            -- (;  ,.u4'  {Ouadcne
-20-                                                       d       >Chget
20<                             SeG uelil                                                                                        20-
X         wki~~~~~~~oujt                                                                                     !
'Tidjik1a      ~~Tichitt     '                            1
NOUAKCHOT I                                                                                         -
Boutilim1t  Cangar6fa, o      eria     I         2                      "
iAGANT                mc                              '.    Ojolata
____ Ajoun el Atrouss
6'                  vrStLoui  D- I'"                                                                  HOO    7.,.jimbedra                        i6
El Mounderei             Avon 4JAb.rke
4elilby                    0Noro duSahel
DAKAv                                                     Boket a                                  M   A   L
\ S          E    N    E    G    A   L                                     h   p h- b-.,eh ld Bk tstf -sh-,av fbr th           e
o  Its reders ofth/r p-(aprtt   wlth, Its attached   The  .-atnttn   sd sod  the
p                     ~ ~~~~~~~~~boud no-eshown o  tOhs m-p  do c- Impty.on the pnet o  the Wocld Basks-dtan



