Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3,445-MAU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MAURITANIA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
February 1O 1982
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Education Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used hy recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =       Ouguiya (UM)
US$1.00           =       M 47
MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)            =      0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)  =       0.39 square mile
1 meter (m)                 =      3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)         =      10.76 square feet
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAURITANIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BASIC DATA
I.     THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR ..........................   1
A.   Social and Economic Factors Affecting the Sector ........   1
B.   Manpower and Employment ... .............................     2
Cr   The Education System ... ..............................   4
D.   The Issues ............. ...............                           5
E.   The Government's Educational Development Policies .......  10
F.   The Bank Group's Involvement in
Education and Training ...................................  12
II.    THE PROJECT ... e.......... e.....e........... ........................  14
A.   Project Summary .........        ................................  14
B.   Project Components ....           ... ...............................  14
Vocational Training .....................................  15
Maritime Training .......... ...........................  15
Lower Secondary Teacher Training ..................     ....  17
Planning Department and Organization
and Management Unit .....................         ............  18
Project Management ................... . . ..               .  18
III.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN          ...............................  19
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION        .........................................  25
V.    PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISK.So ...........................*.*.. e         29
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACRED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ...         ...... ........  30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that vîsited
Mauritania from October 12 to 25, 1980. The mission members were Messrs.
A.M. Verspoor (economist), P.H. Bussat (architect), B. Dahlborg (technical
educator), D. Rouag (general educator) and Ms. A. Scudeller (educational
administration - consultant)
This document has a restriced distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
zf



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
ANNEXES
1     Structure of the Education System
2     Comparative Education Indicators
3     Labor Force and Employment
4     Estimated Manpower Needs in the Fisheries Sector
5     Enrollments and Teachers, 1978-79
6     National and Regional Government Expenditures on Education,
1975-80
7     Comparison of Recurrent Costs per Student in Selected
West African Countries
8     Cost Summary
9     Financing Plan
10     Summary of Specialist Services
il     Summary of Fellowships
12     Implementation Schedule
13     Schedule of Disbursements
14     Disbursements Against Statements of Expenditures
15     List of Related Documents
MAP:   IBRD No. 15610R



GLOSSARY/GLOSSAIRE
ADF       African Development Fund              Fonds Africain de Développement
BOM       Oranization and Management Unit       Bureau Organisation et Méthodes
CFEPC     Secondary School Certificate          Certificat de fin d'Etudes du
Premier Cycle
CFPCEG    Lower Secondary Teacher Training    Centre de Formation de Professeurs
College                              des CEG
*        CFPM       Maritime Training Center              Centre de Formation Professionnelle
Maritime
CFPP      Vocational Training and               Centre de Formation et de Per-
Upgrading Center                     fectionnement Professionnel
EEC       European Economic Community           Communauté Economique Européenne
ENA       National School of Administration   Ecole Nationale d'Administration
ENFVA     Agricultural Training Center          Ecole Nationale de Formation et
de Vulgarisation Agricole
ENS       Secondary Teacher Training College  Ecole Normale Supérieure
IFAD      International Fund for Agri-          Fonds International de Développement
cultural Development                 Agricole
IHI       Institute of Advanced Islamic         Institut des Hautes Etudes Islamiques
Studies
ILO       International Labour Organization   Organisation Internationale du
Travail
IPN       National Pedagogical Institute        Institut Pédagogique National
MEFC      Ministry of Employient                Ministère de l'Emploi et de
la Formation des Cadres
MEN       Ministry of National Education        Ministère de l'Education Nationale
MJAI      Ministry of Justice and Islamic       Ministère de la Justice'et des
Affairs                              Affaires Islamiques
MPEM      Ministry of Fisheries                 Ministère de la Pêche et de
l'Economie Maritime
UNDP      United Nations Development            Programme des Nations Unies
Programme                            pour le Développement
USAID     United States Agency for              Agence des Etats-Unis d'Amerique
International Development            pour le Développement International



.
.



MAURITANIA
BASIC DATA
General (1980)
Population                                      1.6 million
Population growth rate                          2.7%
GNP per capita                                  US$320
Life expectancy at birth                        43 years
Literacy rate                                   17%
Enrollments in Education (1978)
Level                            Enrollment      % of age group    % female
Primary                       81,286              32              36
Secondary general             12,134 )             9              19
Secondary technical              679 )
Teacher training-primary         455               -
Teacher training-secondary       209
Education Expenditure (1978)
Central-Government recurrent expenditure on education
as a % of GDP                                      5%
as a % of total Central Government expenditures 17%
Recurrent Cost per Student (1979)                      US$
Primary                                           136
Secondary general                                 763
Secondary technical                             2,464
Teacher training-primary                        5,072
Teacher training-secondary                      6,688



0



MAURITANIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
I. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
A.   Social and Economic Factors Affecting the Sector
1.01     Mauritania's land area of 1.1 million km2 is predominantly desert,
with less than one-third usable for livestock and only a narrow belt along the
southern border suitable for agriculture. The population, estimated at 1.6
million, comprises two distinct groups: black sedentary farmers and tradi-
tionally nomadic Moorish herdsmen. French and Arabic are the official admi-
nistrative languages, and both are used as media of instruction in the formal
education system.
1.02     The country's economy is dominated by iron-ore mining, which accounts
for about 17% of GDP, provides about 80% of the country's export earnings, and
employs 25% of the modern sector labor force. The modern productive sector
accounts for about 50% of GDP, the rural sector (mainly traditional livestock)
for about 25%, and public administration for about 25%. The potentially impor-
tant fisheries sector represents only 2% of GDP, but provides 10% of the coun-
try's export earnings. With a per capita income (1980) of US$320, Mauritania
is not classified as one of the least developed countries; however, incomes
are poorly distributed. Eighty percent of the population are among the world's
poorest and this is reflected in key social indicators. Life expectancy at
birth is estimated at 43 years, infant mortality is 169 per 1,000, and less
than one-third of the children age 6-11 attend primary school. Human resource
problems, especially shortages of skilled personnel, are a major constraint to
the country's development efforts.
1.03     Economic growth, which averaged about 8% per annum during the 1960s,
slowed to less than 2% during the 1970s due to a number of unfavorable develop-
ments. A series of severe droughts caused livestock losses, principally
cattle, amounting to an estimated 30% of the herd, and the stagnation of world
steel markets has unfavorably affected earnings from iron ore. Furthermore,
in recent years the composition of the public investment program and the
design of major projects have not been sufficiently oriented toward the
country's economie development priorities. Many of these projects were
financed by foreign loans, and the burden of external debt increased sharply
while Mauritania's capacity to deal with it did not. To redress this pre-
carious situation, the Government adopted in 1978 an Economic and Financial
Rehabilitation Plan, prepared with Bank assistance.
1.04      The cornerstone of the Government's development strategy is con-
tinued iron-ore exploitation to provide the resources needed to finance the
development of other sectors. In time, these resources would be used to
constitute a renewable base for economic growth and reduce the economic
reliance on iron-ore mining; however, the ore reserves presently being ex-
ploited will be depleted by the late 1980s. To open up new mines and enable



- 2 -
Mauritania to increase production from present levels, the Government, with
the support of a group of external financing agencies including the Bank
Group, has started to implement the Guelbs Iron Ore Project (Ln. 1747-MAU).
With an appropriate investment program, the annual growth rate of the economy
could reach an average of 3-4% during the next 15 years. In addition to
investments in the mining sector, the Government emphasizes the development of
rural areas and is giving increasing priority to the agricultural, livestock
and fisheries sectors.
B.   Manpower and Employment
General Situation
1.05     In 1977, Mauritania's working population was estimated at about
500,000 (Annex 3), mostly engaged in traditional agriculture and livestock
raising. Literacy levels are generally low: of the population age 14 and
over, about 10% are literate in Arabic, 2% in French and 5% in both languages.
1.06     During the years of drought in the 1970s (para. 1.03) the social
and economic context of human resource development changed fundamentally.
Thousands of farmers and herdsmen who lost their source of livelihood in rural
areas migrated to the towns; by 1977 an estimated 65% of Mauritania's popula-
tion was sedentary, compared with 35% in 1970. Although some families might
return to their nomadic life after the herds have been reconstituted, many are
expected to remain in the urban areas, demanding education and other services
from the Government and seeking employment in the formal or informal sectors.
1.07     The modern sector, which is relatively small and capital intensive
because of the preponderance of mining, employs only 46,000 persons represent-
ing 10% of the potentially active population. Consequently, although modern
sector employment increased at an average annual rate of 5% between 1967 and
1977, only about 20% of the new entrants to the labor force found employment
in the modern sector. The remainder of the young people of working age were
absorbed into the informal sector or into traditional agriculture.
1.08     There are serious imbalances in the supply and demand for different
types of labor in the modern sector. On the one hand there is a general
over-supply of unskilled labor and on the other hand a shortage of skilled
manpower. The number of job openings available annually, including those
created through attrition and Mauritanization, is estimated at 4,500; of
these, about 200 are in the managerial and professional levels and 1,600 at
the middle- and skilled-worker level. Secondary schools are the main source
of skilled manpower, but in 1979 only 1,000 students left secondary school
with at least four years of completed secondary education ("Certificat de fin
d'études du premier cycle" - CFEPC) and only 300 of them had passed the
baccalaureate examination. These quantitative shortages are exacerbated by
the poor quality of instruction throughout the education system and the result
has been an increase in the number of non-Mauritanian employees (excluding
technical assistance personnel) in the modern sector from 2,700 in 1972 to
4,300 in 1976, when they represented 16% of the modern sector employees.
Manpower problems are particularly serious in the modern industrial and
fisheries sectors and in education.



- 3 -
The Modern Industrial and Services Sector
1.09     The serious shortages of lower- and middle-level personnel with
either basic technical skills or training in bookkeeping and other clerical
skills are an important reason for the low productivity of workers employed in
the modern sector. A recent survey of private sector enterprises found that
about 70% of the workers had either received no skill training or ouly minimal
on-the-job training and that nearly 50% are illiterate.  Quantitatively, the
shortages are most pronounced in respect of workers in the construction
industry, maintenance mechanics, and bookkeepers and other office workers.
The Fisheries Sector
1.10     In 1978 the industrial fishing fleet of 528 boats licensed to operate
in Mauritanian waters employed about 8,000 persons, most of them from abroad.
In addition, about 1,600 workers were employed in the fish-processing industry,
although only about 5% of the catch was landed in Mauritania. Future manpower
requirements in the fisheries sector are largely determined by the implementa-
tion of recently revised Government policies. These not only emphasize the
development of artisanal fishing, but also aim at increasing the contribution
of industrial fishing to the economy. Since 1978 the Government has refused
to renew the fishing licenses of foreign companies operating in Mauritanian
waters and issues licenses only to Mauritanian or mixed companies with a 51%
Mauritanian participation. About 2,000 Mauritanians are officially registered
in Nouadhibou as sailors, but many are untrained and lack experience. Un-
employment among them has increased because of the limited number of fishing
licenses being issued at present. With the Government actively promoting the
employment of increasing numbers of Mauritanians on the Mauritanian fleet, an
estimated 1,800 will be required during the next 10 years to fill deck and
engine room jobs (Annex 4).
Agriculture
1.11     In the agriculture sector the key humen resource problem is the
training of farmers in the use of more efficient production techniques. The
First Education Project (Cr. 459-MAU) is financing an experimental farmer
training program in the Kaedi area. The results of this experiment are
being used in the design of farmer training programs such as the one in the
area of the Gorgol Irrigation Project (Cr. 1068-MAU) which is being considered
for financing by IFAD. Agricultural technicians are being trained at a
training center in Kaedi ("Ecole Nationale de Formation et de Vulgarisation
Agricole"- ENFVA), which recently obtained external financing to expand its
facilities, and no shortages of agricultural technicians are anticipated in
the near future.
The Education Sector
1.12     Shortages of qualified personnel are adversely affecting the effi-
ciency and quality of general education. Only 21% of the 1,800 primary
school teachers are fully qualified; the others are auxiliary teachers, half
of whom have no professional qualifications. At the secondary level, 60% of



- 4-
the teachers are expatriates. Due to difficult working conditions in often
isolated areas and to the lack of perquisites that usually come with jobs in
other sectors, the teachers' morale is generally low, attrition rates are
high, and every year between 5% and 10% of the teachers resign from teaching
to take up other positions. The situation is especially alarming at the
secondary level where, because of rapidly increasing enrollments, about
400 teachers will be required by 1985 to fill new teaching posts, in addition
to 400 more who will be needed to replace expatriate staff and make up for
attrition.
C.   The Education System
1.13      The structure of the education system is shown in Annex 1, and
statistical details are set out in Annex 5. A central feature of education in
Mauritania is the coexistence of two separate systems:
(a) a system of traditional, mainly religious education in the Koranic
schools; and
(b) a public education system, inherited from the colonial period,
with a highly centralized organization in which curricula and
examinations are uniform throughout the country. This system
has an Arabic and a French (or bilingual) stream.
1.14      The Koranic schools receive little financial or other direct Govern-
ment assistance and provide an education in the Islamic religion, literature
and philosophy.  Some offer advanced training programs in these fields and
prepare students for university-level studies. A recent study estimates that
the Koranic schools have about 40,000 pupils, of whom more than half are under
age 6, and about 1,600 teachers. However, in many urban areas the existence
of many primary-level Koranic schools is in jeopardy because of the competi-
tion of public schools, which provide an education oriented toward modern
sector employment and offer generous scholarships at the post-primary level.
Many pupils in urban areas attend a Koranic school only during public school
holidays to obtain additional religious instruction.
1.15      The public school system has many of the features of the French
education system: a six-year primary program and a general secondary program
comprising two three-year cycles leading to a baccalaureate that gives access
to higher education. In 1973 the Government adopted proposals for a major
education reform.  Under this reform , Arabic has been introduced as a language
of instruction in primary schools and curricula are being revised to better
adapt them to the country's socioeconomic and cultural conditions.
1.16      The main responsibility for education is shared by three ministries:
(a) "Ministfere de l'Education Nationale" (MEN), which has responsibility
for primary and secondary public education;
(b)  "Ministere de l'Emploi et de la Formation des Cadres" (MEFC),
responsible for vocational upgrading programs and higher education;
and



- 5 -
(c) "Ministère de la Justice et des Affaires Islamiques" (MJAI), which
provides the liaison between the Government and the Koranic schools.
In addition, several other ministries operate training institutions related
to their specific areas of responsibility; for example, the "Minist'ère de la
P&che et de l'Economie Maritime" (MPEM) operates a maritime training center.
D.   The Issues
1.17      The education system in Mauritania is at a critical stage of develop-
ment. During the past decade, total enrollments more than tripled, but this
expansion was largely uncontrolled and unplanned and has stretched the admini-
strative and financial capacities of the system to their limits. Recurrent
costs, particularly for secondary schools, have become very high and further
iucreases are forseeable because of the growing public demand for education
and the large number of pupils already in the pipeline. However, budgetary
constraints will make it very difficult to sustain the present growth rate
in enrollments. Under these circumstances, the main priority for educational
development should be to increase access to the system at the base and address
immediate manpower shortages through specialized training programs. Con-
sequently, releasing resources from post-primary levels by reducing per pupil
costs, particularly in secondary education, and improving resource utilization
by strengthening educational administration and planning are essential condi-
tions for financing further development of the sector.
Modern Sector Manpower Requirements
1.18      There are about 20 vocational and professional training institutions
in Mauritania which are training personnel to meet the demands of the modern
sector for skilled manpower (para. 1.08). Many of these institutions were
created to respond to a particular training need and are owned and operated
by large private sector employers. In addition, a vocational training and
upgrading center in Nouakchott ("Centre de Formation et de Perfectionnement
Professionnel" - CFPP) was created by the Government with the support of the
First Education Project (Cr. 459-MAU) to train and upgrade industrial and
clerical workers for the modern sector in such areas as accounting, construc-
tion trades, motor mechanics and maintenance mechanics. The center started
its first training programs in early 1981, but the present teaching and
administrative facilities are under-designed and inadequate to meet the
anticipated demand (para. 1.09) since a lack of project funds necessitated
a reduction in the areas of the original design.
1.19      The Government has obtained external assistance for an artisanal
fisheries development project which would include training and counselling of
fishermen.  Some deck and engine room personnel for the industrial fishing
fleet have been trained at the existing industrial vocational training center
in Nouadhihou. However, this center is not set up to cater to the specific
requirements of industrial fishing, and consequently the quality of the
training is unsatisfactory. To meet the sector's manpower needs, in 1978
the Government created a maritime training center ("Centre de Formation
Professionnel Maritime" - CFPM) in Nouadhibou to train skilled workers and
technicians for the industrial fishing fleet and to upgrade workers presently



- 6 -
employed in the sector. The CFPM will use the buildings of an existing
training center built in 1976 with Japanese bilateral assistance. This center
is not yet operational because of a lack of teaching staff and because its
equipment and facilities are inadequate for the presently planned industrial
fishing programs since they were originally intended for the training of
artisanal fishermen.
1.20     Secondary school teachers are being trained at the Secondary Teacher
Training College ("Ecole Normale Supérieure" - ENS) in Nouakchott, which
offers a four-year program.  ENS students obtain a certificate as a lower
secondary school teacher after two years and can either become a teacher in a
lower secondary school or continue their studies and enter the upper secondary
teacher training program. Nearly all students continue their studies, but
even so, upon graduation few enter the teaching profession because many more
attractive alternatives are available. This tendency is reinforced by the
emphasis of the ENS teaching programs on general subjects and the relative
neglect of professional training. In fact, since attrition rates are high and
there are few new teachers, the number of Mauritanian teachers in secondary
education has been diminishing in recent years. To step up the training of
Mauritanian teachers, major changes in the organization of secondary teacher
training are required; specifically, these include (a) no longer allowing ENS
students to enter upper secondary teacher training immediately upon graduation
from the two-year lower secondary program; and (b) revising the teacher
training programs to place more emphasis on pedagogical subjects and teaching
practice.
Education Cost and Financing
1.21      Recurrent expenditures on education financed by the Central Govern-
ment budget (Annex 6) amount to about UM 1,595 million (US$34 million), repre-
senting in 1980 17% of the total recurrent Government budget and an estimated
6% of GDP. In addition, external sources finance considerable technical
assistance and also contribute to the financing of the recurrent costs of
education. Investments in education are estimated at US$3-4.5 million
(UM 150-200 million) annually, of which 95% is financed by external sources.
Total recurrent expenditures on education, including those financed from the
regional budgets and by external assistance programs, represent about 6.8% of
GNP (1977) and total expenditures on education, including capital outlays,
represent about 7.5% of GNP.
1.22      The most important multilateral and bilateral donors for educational
development in Mauritania are Saudi Arabia, Iraq, France, EEC, USAID and UNDP.
The assistance from Saudi Arabia includes financing for the construction and
equipping of the Institute of Advanced Islamic Studies ("Institut des Hautes
Etudes Islamiques" - IHI), 180 secondary school classrooms and a print shop
for the National Pedagogical Institute ("Institut Pédagogique National" - IPN).
France plays an important role in providing technical assistance for secondary
and post-secondary institutions.
1.23      Present expenditure patterns tend to favor secondary education.
The proportion of the education budget going to secondary education in-
creased from 25% in 1975 to 36% in 1978, while the proportion going to primary



- 7-
education decreased from 45% to 37%.  This has aggravated the underfunding
of primary education and has led to a general lack of textbooks and other
teaching aids.
1.24      Per pupil costs at all levels are high in relation to Mauritania's
level of economic development. The annual per pupil cost in primary education
is estimated at US$136 (UM 6,414), representing 50% of GNP per capita and at
US$763 (UM 35,864) in secondary education, representing 283% of GNP per cap-
ita.  The per pupil cost is higher than in other French-speaking West African
countries, both in absolute terms and as a percentage of GNP per capita.
Mauritania spends more on education than countries at a comparable level of
development (Annexes 2 and 7), but only about 32% of the children between ages
6 and 11 are in primary school, and secondary and higher education have so far
been unable to meet manpower requirements (para. 1.08).
1.25      The scope for reducing the per pupil cost at the primary level
is limited in the short run. While the pupil/teacher ratio (presently 45:1)
may increase slightly, additional expenditures are required to increase the
supply of textbooks and other teaching aids. The high per student costs are
caused mainly by teachers' salaries that are high in relation to GNP per
capita, reflecting past and present shortages of educated manpower. The same
is true with regard to secondary education, but more important in determining
unit costs at that level are the employment of large numbers of expatriate
contract teachers, the low pupil/teacher ratio, and the scholarship policy.
1.26      The shortage of secondary school teachers (para. 1.12) has forced
the Government to employ large numbers of expatriate contract teachers in
addition to the technical assistance teachers financed by bilateral aid.
Their number was estimated at 250 in 1980, and an additional 600 would be
required by 1985 if no measures are taken to increase the number of Mauri-
tanian teachers. The cost of employing these expatriate contract teachers
rather than Mauritanians was estimated at UM 135 million (US$2.9 million) in
1980 and at UM 450 million (US$9.6 million) for 1985.
1.27      The pupil/teacher ratio in secondary education is presently about
25:1 and could be raised to, say, 30:1 without significant negative impact on
the quality of instruction. This would have diminished the need for expatriate
contract teachers by about 100 in 1980, generating savings estimated at UM 95
million (US$2.0 million), and by about 200 for 1983 with a savings of about UM
180 million (US$3.8 million).
1.28      The Government's generous scholarship policy also contributes to high
per student costs in secondary education. Until 1979, nearly all students in
post-primary institutions recieved an allowance from the Government varying
from UM 15,190 (US$323) to an average of UM 260,000 (US$5,532), either as a
scholarship (secondary school students) or as a civil service salary (students
in higher education). Also, generous scholarships for training abroad are
awarded indiscriminately without relation to national manpower priorities.
Despite the fact that eligibility requirements for secondary school scholar-
ships were recently increased, payments to students in secondary and higher
education absorbed more than 20% of the total recurrent education expenditures
in 1980.



- 8 -
1.29      Budgetary constraints have made the Government increasingly aware
of the need to implement cost-reduction measures. As first steps in this
respect, the Government has decided to increase the financial eligibility
requirements for secondary school scholarships and to expand secondary school
teacher training programs. Further steps are necessary, but their implemen-
tation is contingent upon the strengthening of educational administration and
planning. Increasing pupil/teacher ratios will require careful school mapping
and improvements in personnel administration, and a rationalization of the
scholarship policy is dependent upon improved manpower planning and better
control of the flow of students through the system.
The Quality of Education
1.30      The quality of education at all levels is adversely affected by the
shortage of qualified teaching staff and the absence of teaching aids. At
the primary level, all teachers are Mauritanian but only 21% are qualified.
At the secondary level, 60% are expatriates who often remain only a short time
in Mauritania. Although no systematic testing has been done so far, student
achievement is thought to be below standard, particularly in mathematics and
science. Vocational training is not well developed and the education system
has not produced the manpower required for a modern sector. Furthermore,
repetition and dropout rates are high throughout the system, and only 30% of
the students admitted to primary school complete it without repetition and
40% do not complete it at all. Repetition rates in secondary and higher
education are likewise very high.
Educational Administration and Planning
1.31      A serious constraint to economic development in Mauritania is the
weak managerial ability within the Government. This is affecting the ability
to routinely plan and carry out development tasks and exercise adequate
control over the resources which are made available. The general shortage of
trained personnel is particularly acute in such key professions as accounting
and auditing, financial and personnel management, and statistics. These staff
shortages, combined with a highly centralized administrative structure and
complex administrative procedures, have severely limited the country's capa-
city to prepare and implement development projects. The ministries respon--
sible for education are no exception to this general pattern. Most of the
officials of the Ministry of National Education (MEN) have been trained as
teachers and not as administrators. At the school and the regional levels,
similar problems exist, compounded by the fact that little authority has been
delegated to those levels and channels of communication with the Ministry aLre
long and complex.
1.32      The MEN has a department responsible for educational planning, but
it is seriously understaffed and its efficiency is low. Essential educational
statistics are reasonably up to date, but planning work is inadequate. There
is no school map and the capability for project preparation and appraisal is
extremely limited. Policy decisions are taken mostly on an ad hoc basis and
mechanisms for interministerial coordination are lacking. The weakness of
the services in charge of educational planning and administration makes it
difficult to prepare a coherent educational development strategy and to
implement projects.



-9-
Access to Education
1.33      The principal long-term challenge of educational development in
Mauritania is to increase access to basic education. Although the growth of
primary school enrollments has been spectacular, increasing from 30,000 in
1970 to 81,000 in 1979, the public schools can accommodate at present only
32% of the school-age children. Furthermore, a large proportion of the
enrollments is concentrated in the urban areas of Nouakchott, Nouadhibou and
Zouerate. Enrollment growth in rural areas has been stagnating since 1975,
possibly because of the shortage of resources, both human and financial, which
has limited the possibilities for opening new classes. In the meantime, the
Government is trying to satisfy at least part of the demand of the greatly
increased urban population (para. 1.06).
L.34      While a coherent strategy aiming at increasing access to educa-
tion in rural areas should encompass both public and Koranic education and
establish linkages between the two systems, no clear role for the Koranic
schools with regard to the provision of a modern basic education has been
identified, nor has the question of linkages between the public and the
traditional systems been fully discussed among those concerned. To adapt the
programs of the Koranic schools at the primary level more closely to the needs
of a modernizing society, the Government, with IDA's assistance under the
First Education Project (Cr. 459-MAU), has experimented with the introduction
of modern subjects in the curricula of these schools. This experiment has
been completed; although it proved feasible to introduce the teaching of some
modern subjects in a few smaller traditional schools, the results remain
inconclusive.
1.35      In the social and cultural context of the traditional nomadic
society, enrollment of girls in public schools used to be a relatively low
priority.  However, these tendencies are gradually changing and the enrollment
of girls, as a percentage of total enrollments, increased from 19% in 1960 to
29% in 1970 and to 37% in 1979. The enrollment of girls is expected to
continue to increase at a higher rate than for boys, particularly if efforts
to reduce dropouts, which are especially high among girls, are successful. At
the secondary level, girls represent only 17% of total enrollments.
1.36      The further expansion of primary school enrollments will be largely
contingent upon the possibility of increasing the recurrent budgetary alloca-
tions for primary education by transferring resources from higher levels of
education. For instance, increasing the pupil/teacher ratio at the secondary
level (para. 1.27) would, at present unit cost levels, provide the recurrent
funds to enroll in primary school an additional 13,000 pupils, representing
6% of the 6-11 age group. Additional resources could become available in the
longer term following changes in the scholarship policy (para. 1.28) and an
acceleration of the training of Mauritanian secondary school teachers (para.
1.26), allowing the enrollment of another 70,000-100,000 pupils. This would
make it possible to envisage enrolling 50-60% of the 6-11 age group in primary
schools by 1990.



- 10 -
E.   The Government's Educational Development Policies
Global Strategy
1.37      A Government strategy with regard to education is set out in the
Third Development Plan (1976-80) and further elaborated in the report on the
education reform accepted by the Government in 1973. The Government's global
objectives are to:
(a)  increase access to basic education, particularly in rural areas;
(b)  adapt the curricula to the country's cultural and socioeconomic
environment;
(c)  expand enrollments at the secondary level and strengthen technical
and scientific education; and
(d)  develop specialized institutions of higher education.
Specific Goals
1.38      The Plan's objective to increase the gross primary school enrollment
ratio to 24% by 1979 has been exceeded. While the Government acknowledges
that the experiment to modernize the Koranic schools has been inconclusive
(para. 1.34), it intends to continue its efforts in this direction by explor-
ing alternative solutions which would allow the system to maintain a religious
foundation while providing instruction in modern subjects of a quality compar-
able to that provided by the public system. Meanwhile, the Government consi-
ders that at present the most effective way to increase access to basic edu-
cation geared to the needs of a modernizing society is to expand the coverage
and improve the quality of primary education. The Government is aware that a
further increase in the coverage of primary education is contingent upon the
success of its efforts to strengthen educational planning and administration
and implement cost-reduction measures (para. 1.36), especially at the second-
ary level.
1.39      Curriculum development work is progressing only slowly, but to
better adapt the curricula to the country's cultural environment the Govern-
ment recently decided, in addition to implementing the 1973 reform (para.
1.15), to start an experiment using local African languages as the medium of
instruction in primary schools in areas where these languages are commonly
spoken.
1.40      With regard to secondary education, the Government's strategy
focuses on (a) a regionally balanced expansion, (b) creation of Arabic sec-
tions in secondary schools, (c) improvement in the teaching of mathematics and
science, and (d) Mauritanization of the teaching staff. The regionalization
program has been successful, with every region now having at least one secon-
dary school. The creation of Arabic sections is progressing well. The effort
to strengthen science and math teaching in secondary schools has led to an
increase in the percentage of science and math baccalaureates from 33% in 1974



- il -
to 42% in 1977. The Mauritanization of the teaching staff has run into
difficulties, but remains a top Government priority and will be a major factor
in determining the direction of educational development in Mauritania in
future years.
1.41      To alleviate manpower shortages in the modern sector, the present
expansion plans for secondary education call for doubling enrollments in the
next seven years, while technical education and vocational training oppor-
tunities also will be expanded. The ENFVA (para. 1.11), the CFPP (para. 1.18)
and the CFPM (para. 1.19) are the key instruments for implementing the Govern-
ment's policy in respect of vocational training.
1.42      At the post-secondary level, the Government has decided to create a
national university, but will attempt to use as much as possible the resources
of the existing specialized post-secondary institutions: the National School
of Administration (ENA), the Institute of Advanced Islamic Studies (IHI) and
the Secondary Teacher Training College (ENS). The university would offer
courses only in the humanities. The training of high-level manpower in other
areas, such as science and engineering, will continue at institutions abroad.
In view of the small size of the economy, the Government's plan to develop
post-secondary education can only be implemented slowly, taking into account
economies of scale, training possibilities in neighboring countries, and other
priority areas in the education sector. Furthermore, to increase the output
of secondary school teachers, the Government has decided to create a new
institution for training lower secondary school teachers ("Centre de Formation
de Professeurs de College d'Enseignement Général" - CFPCEG) and train only
upper secondary school teachers at the ENS.
1.43      Adult education and training programs geared to the needs of rural
areas are virtually nonexistent.  No literacy programs have been developed up
to now and farmer training programs have been oriented mainly toward the
introduction of new production techniques.  Broadening these programs to
include elements of health and literacy training is an important longer term
goal, but is unlikely to be tackled in the short term, in view of the weakness
of the central services.
1.44      The Government realizes that the present weakness in educational
administration and planning is a major constraint to the balanced development
of education. It therefore intends not only to strengthen educational plan-
ning, but also to create an organization and management unit within the MEN
to tackle the problems of educational administration through organizational
studies and staff training.
1.45      The Government's increasing emphasis on the development of rural
areas (para. 1.04) has as an essential complement the need to increase access
to primary education in order to increase the literacy and numeracy skills of
the rural population.  Consequently, the emphasis of the Government's educa-
tional policy will have to gradually shift from secondary education (para.
1.38) toward the development of primary education. To implement this policy,
the Government could consider stabilizing admissions to secondary schools at



- 12 -
the present 35% of grade 6 enrollments, and at the same time introducing
cost-reduction measures (paras. 1.25-1.27). The intended rationalization of
the scholarship policy (paras. 1.28 and 1.29) would further contribute to
controlling education expenditures. This would allow production of a suffi-
cient number of secondary school graduates while releasing resources to
expand the coverage of primary education and improve the quality of teaching
in the primary schools (para. 1.36).
1.46      The policy objectives and goals of the Third Plan (paras. 1.37-1.38)
do not fully address the principal sector issues discussed in above section D
of this report. However, an education sector survey prepared with Unesco
assistance in 1978, and a further review in the context of the preparation of
the Fourth Development Plan (1981-85), deal extensively with them. IDA has
reviewed the conclusions of these studies with the Government and our policy
dialogue with the Government is expected to continue during implementation of
the proposed project. The Fourth Plan, scheduled to be published soon, is
expected to reflect the Government's increased awareness of the key issues
facing the sector.  During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it
will review with IDA prior to December 31, 1983, the status of implementation
of the Fourth Plan in respect of the education sector, with special emphasis
on cost-reduction measures (para. 1.29) and the development of higher educa-
tion (para. 1.42).
F.   The Bank Group's Involvement in Education and Training
1.47      The Bank Group's lending strategy for education and training has
focused on three main areas of Government concern: (a) expansion and im-
provement of educational opportunities for children in rural areas; (b)
expansion of training programs for farmers in the agricultural belt along the
Senegal River; and (c) training of skilled workers for the modern sector.
1.48      In line with this orientation, the Bank Group has followed two
approaches: (a) lending for important subsectors in the education system; and
(b) lending for project-related training. Consistent with this approach, the
Bank Group in addition to financing an education project, has also provided
assistance for training in agricultural, industrial and highways projects.
1.49      The First Education Project (Cr. 459-MAU, signed on February 11,
1974) provided US$3.8 million to help the Government to: (a) strengthen
vocational training programs by financing technical assistance for an existing
center in Nouadhibou and establishing a new center in Nouakchott; (b) develop
farmer training programs by creating a village training center and a rural
radio programming center; (c) strengthen primary teacher upgrading through
radio programs; (d) conduct an experiment attempting to modernize traditional
Koranic education; and (e) strengthen manpower planning.
1.50      The project faced serious implementation problems almost from
the beginning. Not only was the price escalation following the 1973 world oil
crisis much higher than anticipated, but it soon became clear that the project
design was too ambitious and that the Government's project implementation
capacity had been overestimated. Furthermore, arrangements for the prepara-
tion of architectural design work and for project management proved inadequate.



- 13 -
The project was reappraised in 1976 and modifications in the cost and content
were agreed with the Government. Two elements, a rural radio station for
the Senegal River Valley and radio facilities for primary teacher upgrading,
were deleted from the project and the credit proceeds reallocated to other
components: the Vocational Training and Upgrading Center (CFPP) in Nouakchott,
technical assistance for manpower training for the mining industry, a farmer
training center, and the experimental study of Koranic schools. Modified
administrative arrangements have led to improved project management.
1.51      The Koranic school experiment was completed in June 1980 (para.
1.34). The farmer training component had to be redesigned following a re-
organization within the Government of the responsibilities in respect of the
implementation of rural development projects, but implementation is now pro-
ceeding on schedule. The experiment is expected to be completed by the end
1981 and the evaluation results to be available by early 1982.  Construc-
tion of the CFPP has been completed and the equipment installed, and local
staff have been trained and are working with an ILO technical assistance team.
The first courses started in January 1981 and in spite of some insufficiencies
in the facilities (para. 1.18) the center became fully operational in April
1981. Alternative financing has become available for the mining training and
manpower planning components, and the savings thus generated have been used
to finance complementary works and equipment for the CFPP. The project is
expected to be completed by early 1983.
1.52   -  The shortages of specialized manpower in key sectors of the modern
economy and the low rate of schooling at the primary level reflect the serious
shortcomings of the education and training system in Mauritania. The manpower
shortages jeopardize the Government's efforts to develop the industrial and
commercial sectors, while the low rate of primary schooling, because of the
resulting low adult literacy rates, hampers the establishment of a productive
base for the economy in the agricultural sector. Consequently, improvement
and expansion of vocational training programs and increased access to primary
education, especially in rural areas, should be priority objectives in Bank
Group assistance and should be supported through a series of projects.
However, prior to an expansion of primary school enrollments, educational
planning and administration should be strengthened to improve the capability
to efficiently manage available resources (para. 1.31) and the cost of se-
condary education should be reduced to release the resources required to
finance the recurrent costs of the expansion of primary enrollments (para.
1.36). Consistent with this strategy, the project proposed in this report
would emphasize the improvement and expansion of vocational training programs
for the modern sector and support the establishment of a viable base for the
expansion of primary education in the second half of the 1980s.
1.53      In the First Education Project, IDA has collaborated with UNDP in
regard to the CFPP. This collaboration is expected to continue in the second
education project. In addition, IDA has taken a leading role in coordinating
the investments in the education sector of the ADB and the EEC, which have
agreed to participate in the financing of the project.



- 14 -
II. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Summary
2.01      The project's principal objectives, which reflect the Government's
sectoral priorities (para. 1.37), are to:
(a)  improve vocational training facilities for skilled workers for
the modern industrial and commercial sector;
(b)  establish vocational training programs for skilled workers and
technicians for the industrial fisheries sector;
(c)  expand and improve the quality of training for lower secondary
school teachers; and
(d)  strengthen educational administration and planning.
B.   Project Components
2.02      The project would be implemented over the period 1981-85, and would
comprise the following components:
(a)  Construction, furniture, equipment, technical assistance and staff
training to complete the facilities of the Vocational Training
and Upgrading Center (CFPP) in Nouakchott and make it fully opera-
tional;
(b)  Construction, furniture, equipment, technical assistance, staff
training and two years of incremental operating costs to rehabi-
litate and expand the facilities of the Maritime Training Center
(CFPM) in Nouadhibou and start-up training and upgrading programs of
low- and middle-level personnel for the industrial fisheries sector;
(c)  Construction, furniture, equipment, specialist services, staff
training and two years of operating costs for a lower secondary
teacher training college (CFPCEG) in Nouakchott, with about 280
student places, to train Mauritanian teachers who could replace the
large number of expatriates presently employed in lower secondary
schools; and
(d)  Equipment, technical assistance, staff training and operating
costs for an organization and management unit ("Bureau Organisation
et Méthodes" - BOM) and for the Planning Department within the
Ministry of National Education which would provide assistance to
strengthen educational administration and planning.
The project would also finance furniture, equipment, specialist services
and operating costs for project administration and for the preparation of an
eventual third education project.



- 15 -
Vocatianal Training
2.03      The project would finance construction, equipment and furniture
that would enable the Vocational Training and Upgrading Center (CFPP) in
Nouakchott (paras. 1.18, 1.50 and 1.51) to offer the full range of courses in
the building trades, motor mechanics, electrical trades, and commercial and
secretarial subjects that was originally envisaged in the First Education
Project and increase the training capacity from 150 to about 350 workers
annually. The project would also finance seven man-years of specialist
services for five expatriate vocational training specialists to ensure the
development of in-plant and center-based training programs. In addition, UNDP
would finance about 15 man-years of specialist services to fill key teaching
posts and about 40 man-months of fellowships to complete the trainîng of
Mauritanian instructors. This training, combined with on-the-job training, is
expected to enable the Mauritanian staff to assume increasing responsibility
for the operation of the center and the expatriate specialists would be phased
out gradually during 1982 and 1983.
2.04      A governing board for the CFPP has been established, composed of
representatives of the Ministry of Labor and associations of private and
parapublic sector employers and workers. Training programs are being de-
veloped on the basis of a recent training needs survey (para. 1.09) and in
close consultation with employers. The center's operating costs are at
present funded by subsidies from the Government's budget.  No fees for the
training programs are charged to employers since a training tax is levied.
However, the proceeds of this tax are not earmarked for the CFPP and the
amount collected is inadequate to cover its operating costs. The Government
is considering measures to involve employers more directly in the financing of
the center's operating costs. This could be done, for example, by earmarking
the proceeds of the training levy for the CFPP, or perhaps even better, by
allowing the CFPP to charge employers a fee for their participation in the
training program, which they would be able to deduct from the training levy.
During negotiations the Government gave assurances that, after reviewing with
IDA its proposals to involve employers more directly in the financing of the
CFPP's operating costs, it will implement measures in this respect prior to
June 30, 1982.
Maritime Training
2.05      The project would finance construction, furniture and equipment
for the Maritime Training Center (para. 1.19) located in Nouadhibou, the
country's main fishing port. The center would be housed in existing buildings,
constructed in 1978/79 with Japanese bilateral assistance, which would be
remodeled and expanded and have a capacity to accommodate about 160 students,
half of whom would be boarders. The center would train about 30 new workers
annually and upgrade about 180 workers, which is in line with the estimated
manpower requirements of the sector (para. 1.10).
2.06      The CFPM would provide training programs for low- and middle-level
deck and engine room personnel. Initially, about 30% of the center's training
capacity would be used to retrain presently registered fishing boat crewmen.



- 16 -
For youths with little or no commercial fishing experience, the CFPM would
offer an initial basic skill training course of two years' duration, followed
by advanced training courses of six to nine months for those who have at least
36 months of experience at sea. Students would be recruited from among
primary school graduates and final selection would be made after a four-month
initiation program that includes three months at sea. During the course,
students would spend about one week a month at sea. A rigorous selection
emphasizing adaptability to conditions at sea is justified, as only a small
segment of the Mauritanian population has a maritime tradition. Students who
succeed in completing the program are expected to be capable and sufficiently
motivated to complete the two-year course and seek employment aboard ships of
the Mauritanian fishing fleet.
2.07      The training programs would have a strong practical orientation.
The equipment to be financed by the project includes two training boats, each
of different dimensions and equipped for different types of fishing, where
students would receive practical skill training under conditions comparable
to those prevailing aboard industrial fishing boats. During negotiations the
Government gave assurances that the detailed training programs will be reviewed
with IDA prior to December 31, 1982.
2.08      The CFPM was legally established on December 15, 1978.  A Mauritanian
Director has been appointed and the Government is considering the possibility
of starting some upgrading courses in temporary facilities. To help the
Director to start-up the center, develop training programs and provide on-the-
job training for Mauritanian instructors, the project would finance 12 man-
years of specialist services for four maritime training specialists, including
a senior maritime training specialist who would coordinate program development
and monitor the technical aspects of the start-up of the center. The Govern-
ment has already advertised the position of this senior maritime training
specialist and his appointment is expected to be made by mid 1982. The
Government would approach other bilateral agencies to fill other teaching
posts and provide assistance after completion of the project. The project
would also finance 12 man-years of fellowships to train Mauritanians for
teaching positions in the CFPM.
2.09      The CFPM has a governing board that includes representatives of
shipowners and workers. The center will collaborate closely with the ship-
owners in respect of the elaboration of training programs and the organization
of trainee programs aboard fishing boats. Operating costs are presently
financed from a special account in which are deposited payments made by ship-
owners to the Government in lieu of salary payments to Mauritanian sailors,
whom the shipowners are contractually obliged to employ but who are presently
not available. The balance of this account is at present UM 42 million, which
is expected to be adequate to finance the recurrent costs of the CFPM until at
least the end of 1983. The Government is exploring the possibility of setting
up permanent arrangements to have shipowners contribute to the center's
operating costs, which could take the form of a training levy on the fishing
license fee. The project would finance the incremental costs (including
local salaries) of operating the CFPM in its new facilities during the first



- 17 -
two years. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that after
reviewing with IDA proposals to establish arrangements for funding the
center's operating costs, including shipowners' contributions, it will
implement measures in this respect prior to December 31, 1983.
Lower Secondary Teacher Training
2.10      The project would finance construction, furniture and equipment for
educational, administrative and boarding facilities for a new lower secondary
teacher training college (CFPCEG) (para. 1.42), located in Nouakchott. The
college would have a capacity for about 280 students and an annual output of
about 130 graduates. Students would be recruited for a two-year course from
among grade 12 secondary school students and primary school teachers with at
least three years of teaching experience. All students would be offered a
cholarship and, in accordance with existing government regulations, would be
required to sign an agreement to teach for at least ten years after graduation.
2.11      Because of the bilingual character of the Mauritanian education
system (para. 1.13) the college would have a French and an Arabic section.
The students would specialize in two major subjects which they would teach
upon graduation and select one major language. The teaching programs would
emphasize prof essional training and about 25% of the time would be devoted to
pedagogical training and practice teaching. A working group of Mauritanian
educators have prepared detailed curricula which reflect these orientations.
To provide appropriate conditions for professional training, the project
includes a provision of UM 4.7 million (US$100,000) for construction and
equipment to rehabilitate the adjacent lower secondary school, which would be
used as a demonstration school for practice teaching.
2.12      The CFPCEG would enroll a first group of students for the 1983/84
school year; at the same time the ENS would discontinue recruitment for its
lower secondary teacher training program (paras. 1.20 and 1.42). Graduates
of the CFPCEG would be eligible for admission to the ENS's upper secondary
teacher training programs only after at least three years of teaching experi-
ence in a lower secondary school. The Government has prepared draft legisla-
tion establishing the CFPCEG and modifying the status of the ENS, including
conditions of admission of CFPCEG graduates to the ENS. Durîng negotiations
the Government gave assurances that the CFPCEG will be legally established by
December 31, 1982, with study programs and conditions of admission acceptable
to IDA, and that the status of the ENS will be modified to reflect the elimi-
nation of its lower secondary teacher training program two years after the
CFPCEG admits its first students.
2.13      The project would also finance 7 man-years of specialist services
for three specialists who would assist with the coordination of program
development and the preparation of detailed syllabi for teaching methodology
and curriculum development evaluation. To fill other initial teaching posi-
tions, the Government would approach bilateral agencies. The project would
also finance 92 man-months of fellowships for the training abroad of local
teaching staff.



- 18 -
2.14      The project would finance the start-up cost and the recurrent costs,
including local salary expenditures, for the first two years. During negotia-
tions the Governnent gave assurances that during the first two years of opera-
tion of the CFPCEG the Ministry of National Education (MEN) will exchange
views with IDA on the annual budgetary provisions to be made for the CFPCEG to
ensure the availability of sufficient funds for pre-financing its operating
costs (Annex 14). Thereafter, the recurrent costs of the college would be
financed by the Ministry's budget.
Planning Department and Organization and Management Unit
2.15      In support of the Government's objective to strengthen educational
administration and planning (para. 1.32), the project would finance equipment,
furniture, 8 man-years of specialist services and 40 man-months of fellow-
ships to establish an organization and management unit within the Ministry of
National Education. The project would also finance the unit's operating costs
for the first four years. This unit, which would be directly attached to the
Minister's office under the supervision of the Secretary-General, would be
the main instrument to bring about changes in educational administration by
improving administrative practices and training administrators at the central,
regional and school levels. The unit would review: (a) key administrative
functions of the Ministry such as personnel management and budget preparation
and monitoring; (b) channels of communication between schools, regional
education offices and the central administration; and (c) administrative
problems involved in school administration. The staff of the organization
and management unit would, on the basis of this review, formulate detailed
recommendations for the implementation of measures to improve administrative
practices, and would prepare and organize training seminars for approximately
220 school administrators and staff of the regional education offices and
the Ministry. The project would finance furniture, equipment and materials
required for these seminars as well as the particpants' travel and subsistence
allowances.
2.16      Particular attention would be paid to strengthening the Ministry's
planning and project preparation capacity. The project would finance 36 man-
months of specialist services for an educational planner who would be posted
in the Ministry of Education's Planning Department, and 20 man-months of
fellowships abroad to train and upgrade Mauritanian staff in the areas of
educational planning and statistics.
2.17      During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will (a)
make available adequate office space for the organization and management unit,
and (b) conduct an interim evaluation of the results of the educational admin-
istration and planning component and submit a summary report to IDA prior
to August 31, 1983.
Project Management
2.18      The project unit established for the implementation of the First
Education Project (Cr. 459-MAU) would also be responsible for coordinating
the implementation of the second project, but would be headed by a full-time
director and strengthened in the areas of procurement and accounting. The
project would finance 14 man-years of specialist services, of which 10 would
be locally recruited for site supervision and accounting. As qualified
Mauritanians were not available, an expatriate procurement specialist has



- 19 -
been recruited to assist with the preparation of civil works and equipment
contracts, site supervision, and the installation of equipment. To strengthen
project accounting, the project includes financing of a contract with an
independent firm of auditors who would not only audit the project accounts
annually, but also provide on-the-job training to the project accounting
staff. The project would finance all audit fees. The project would also
finance some additional equipment and furniture for the project unit and
its operating expenses, including the usual allowances for staff seconded from
the civil service and salaries of support staff. To train Mauritanian project
unit staff in the areas of project management, procurement and accounting, the
project includes 24 man-months of fellowships.
2.19      The project also includes a provision of US$300,000 to finance
specialist services and professional fees for the preparation for external
financing of future education projects which would be expected to include
support for the expansion of primary education.
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
Cost of the Project
3.01      The net-of-tax cost of the project is estimated at US$14.7 million
and the total cost at US$15.3 million, with a foreign exchange component
of US$9.9 million. The breakdown of the cost by component is detailed in
Annex 8 and summarized below.



- 20 -
% of
Base   Taxes in
Project Item           Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    Cost         Total
- -UM Million    -----         US$ Million-----           US$ million
Vocational Training    10        48      58      0.22    1.02    1.24       10.2      -
Center
Maritime Training       67      122     189      1.42    2.60    4.02       33.2     0.27
Center
Lower Secondary         92      118     210      1.95    2.52    4.47       36.9     0.13
Teacher Training
Planning Department    10        57      67      0.22    1.22    1.44      11.9      0.03
and BOM
Project Manage-         21       24      45      0.44    0.50    0.94       7.8      0.04
ment
Base Cost              200      369     569      4.25    7.86   12.11    100.0       0.47
Physical Con-            9       15      24      0.19    0.31    0.50        4.1      -
tingencies
Expected Price          45       82     127      0.95    1.74    2.69      22.2      0.12
Escalation
Total Project Cost    254       466     720      5.39    9.91   15.30                0.59
3.02      The cost estimates for civil works are for September 1981 and are
based on unit costs derived from construction contracts awarded in 1979 and
1980 for similar buildings.  The average net-of-tax cost of construction for
project-financed new buildings is estimated at US$484 per square meter. The
cost per student place for academic and communal facilities at the CFPCEG,
the only project institution for which completely new facilities would be
constructed, is estimated at US$2,879, which is higher than construction costs
for similar institutions in neighboring countries. The high construction
costs in Mauritania stem from the large share of construction materials which
need to be imported, the high transport costs, excess demand in the limited
local construction market, inefficient management of local construction, and
shortages of qualified construction workers. The average cost of expatriate
specialists, based on recent recruitment experience of international organi-
zations and the Government, is estimated at US$95,000 per man-year, including
salary, allowances and overhead.



- 21 -
3.03      Estimated costs by category of expenditure are shown below.
Category                                                                 % of       Taxes in
of Expenditure         Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Base Cost          Total
-     UM million    -          US$ million -----             (US$ million)
Civil works              83      56       139    1.77    1.20    2.97       24.5         -
Professional fees          4     15        19    0.08    0.32    0.40        3.3         -
Furniture                 2      19        21    0.05    0.40    0.45        3.7        0.01
Equipment                  4     60        64    0.08    1.27    1.35       11.1        0.02
List services      26    177       203    0.55    3.76    4.31       35.6           -
Local staff training       3     21        24    0.06    0.46    0.52        4.3           -
Operating costs          78      21        99    1.66    0.45    2.11       17.5        0.44
Base cost               200    369        569    4.25    7.86   12.11    100.0          0.47
Physical contin-
gencies                 9      15        24    0.19    0.31    0.50        4.1         -
Price contingencies      45      82       127    0.95    1.74    2.69       22.2        0.12
Total project cost      254    466        720    5.39    9.91   15.30                   0.59
3.04      During negotiations the Government confirmed that it will grant
exemption from taxes and customs duties for all goods and services required
for the project's capital investments. Consequently, the project cost esti-
mates include taxes and customs duties only on operating costs and some small
items of furniture and equipment that are expected to be procured locally, for
a total amount of US$590,000.
3.05      The project includes physical contingency allowances for 10% of the
base cost for civil works, furniture and equipment. The overall allowance for
price escalation is about 21.3% of base cost plus physical contingencies.
Increases in local prices are expected to be roughly equivalent to increases
in import prices because of the relatively high proportion of GNP which is
imported; consequently, no substantial difference in price increases between
foreign and local costs is expected during the project implementation period.
The price contingency allowance has been estimated on the basis of the follow-
ing trends in the price of both local and foreign goods:
Category                                    1981  1982  1983-85  1986
Civil works, furniture and equipment         9     8.5    7.5      6.0
Technical assistance, fellowships            8     8.0    8.0       8.0
and operating costs



- 22 -
3.06      The estimated foreign exchange component of US$9.9 million repre-
sents about 62% of the total project cost of US$15.3 million. This has been
calculated as follows: civil works, 40%; furniture, 88%; equipment, 93%;
professional fees, 70%; specialist services, 87%; local staff training, 92%;
and operating costs, 22%.
Financing Plan
3.07      In addition to the proposed IDA credit of Special Drawing Right
4.9 million (US$5.7 million), the African Development Fund has provided a
loan to finance project items with a total estimated cost of US$5.0 million,
and the EEC has agreed to provide a grant to finance project items with an
estimated cost of US$3.0 million. As a condition of effectiveness of the IDA
credit, the Government should ensure that all conditions necessary for an
initial disbursement from the ADF loan and the EEC grant have been satisfied.
The financing is detailed in Annex 9 and summarized below.
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Taxes included in
Government
Total Cost    IDA    ADF    EEC    Government    Participation
Vocational Training        1.24        1.24    -       -          -
Center
Maritime Training          4.02        0.62    -      2.34       1.06           0.27
Center
Lower secondary            4.47        0.93   3.41    -          0.13           0.13
teacher training
Planning Department        1.44        1.02   0.39    -          0.03           0.03
and BOM
Project management         0.94        0.85   0.05    -          0.04           0.04
Total base cost           12.11        4.66   3.85   2.34        1.26           0.47
Physical contingencies    0.50         0.07   0.27   0.16         -              -
Price contingencies        2.69        0.97   0.88   0.50        0.34           0.12
Total Cost           15.30        5.70   5.00   3.00       1.60           0.59



- 23 -
3.08      The ADF would provide financing for 100% of the net-of-tax cost of
the following items:
(a) construction, furniture and equipment for the CFPCEG (para. 2.10),
including the improvement of the facilities of the adjacent lower
secondary school (para. 2.11) and professional fees for the design
of these improvements - US$2,530,000;
(b) seven man-years of specialist services and 92 man-months of
fellowships for the CFPCEG (para. 2.13) - US$880,000;
(c)  furniture, equipment, three man-years of specialist services, and
60 man-months of fellowships for the strengthening of educational
administration and planning (paras. 2.15 and 2.16) - US$390,000;
(d) equipment and three man-months of specialist services for the
project office (para. 2.18) - US$50,000; and
(e) allowance for physical contingencies and price escalation for these
items - US$1,150,000.
3.09      The EEC grant would provide 100% financing of the net-of-tax cost of:
(a) construction, equipment and furniture for the CFPM (para. 2.05) -
US$1,580,000;
(b) eight man-years of specialist services for the CFPM (para. 2.08) -
US$760,000; and
(c) allowance for physical contingencies and price escalation on these
items - US$560,000.
3.10      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 4.9 million (US$5.4 million) would
finance 100% of the net-of-tax cost of the following items:
(a)  professional fees for design work for the civil works for the
CFPP, CFPM and CFPCEG - US$230,000;
(b) construction, equipment, furniture, and seven man-years of specialist
services for the CFPP (para. 2.03) - US$1,220,000;
(c) four man-years of specialist services and 12 man-years of fellowships
for the CFPM (para. 2.08) - US$560,000;
(d) recurrent costs during the initial two years of operation of the
CFPCEG (para. 2.14) - US$770,000;
(e) eight man-years of specialist services, local staff training pro-
grams, and operating costs of the organization and management unit
of the MEN (para. 2.15) - US$1,030,000;



- 24 -
(f)  furniture, four man-years of specialist services, salaries and
fellowships for local staff, and operating costs of the project
unit (para. 2.18) - US$850,000; and
(g) allowance for physical contingencies and price escalation on these
items - US$1,040,000.
3.11      The proposed IDA credit would finance 37.3% of the total project
cost net of taxes, 36% of the foreign exchange cost of US$9.9 million and
46% of the local cost, estimated at US$4.8 million excluding taxes. The
total external financing would amount to US$13.7 million, or 93% of the
total project cost net of taxes. The Governxnent would finance the remaining
US$1.1 million.
Project Recurrent Costs
3.12      The table below shows the incremental recurrent expenditures
expected to be generated by each component during project implementation.
Incremental Recurrent Cost
Responsible           of which             of which
Project Component            Ministry   Total   Fellowships  Total  Fellowships
UN--I O000------  -----US$ '000----
Vocational training  (CFPP)   MEFC           -   negligible        -
Maritime training  (CFPM)       MPEM    25,000    (5,000)        550       (110)
Lower secondary teacher        MEN      55,000   (30,000)    1,220        (660)
training (CFPCEG)
Planning Department            MEN       1,125                    25
and BOM
Total                                   81,125   (35,000)    1,795         (770)
3.13      The project would finance (a) the incremental operating costs of
the CFPCEG and the CFPM during the initial two years of operation of the
newly constructed facilities, and (b) the operating costs during project
implementation of the organization and management unit and the project unit.
The budget of the MEFC is expected to continue to include adequate provision
for the CFPP and no significant increases in the recurrent costs of the CF]?P
are expected to occur during project implementation. At the end of the
project implementation period, the MEN would absorb the recurrent costs of the
CFPCEG and the organization and management unit, estimated at UM 56 million
(US$1.2 million), representing about 5% of the Ministry's budget. The annual
recurrent costs of the CFPM, estimated at UM 25 million (US$530,000), are
expected to be funded mainly from contributions of shipowners (para. 2.09),
while the Government budget would fund the balance. During negotiations, IDA



- 25 -
reviewed with the Government the budgetary impact of the project and obtained
assurances that the Government will make adequate budgetary provisions for the
operation and maintenance of all project-assisted institutions after project
financing of the operating costs ends, taking into account employers' partici-
pation in the recurrent costs of the CFPP and the CFPM (paras. 2.04 and 2.09).
3.14      The replacement of expatriate contract teachers, starting in 1985,
is expected to generate considerable savings. Moreover, salary expenditures
(in 1980 prices) for secondary school teachers are expected to be UM 90
million (US$1.9 million) lower in 1985 than would be the case without the
project; this amount represents about 1% of the Government's total recurrent
budget. These savings will more than compensate for the increases in recurrent
costs expected to be generated by the project when the project institutions
become operational, and on the whole the project is expected to lead to
considerable savings in recurrent expenditures.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Preparation
4.01      Educational specifications for all project institutions were pre-
pared by the Government prior to project appraisal with assistance from
the Unesco Cooperative Program. Firms of consulting architects, one local
and one established in Senegal, have already been appointed, and preliminary
designs for al! civil works have been approved. The initial architectural
design work and the preparation of detailed equipment lists were financed
by funds available in the First Education Project (US$140,000). To allow
the Government to continue project preparation until credit effectiveness
(including preparation of bidding documents for civil works and equipment and
local staff training), an advance of US$400,000 from the Project Preparation
Facility has been approved. The final architectural designs are expected to
be completed by early 1982. Construction of buildings and installation
of equipment are expected to be completed by December 1983. Provision of
specialist services and local staff training are expected to continue until
December 1985 when the entire project is expected to be completed. The
Closing Date would be September 30, 1986, to allow for all project accounts
to be closed.
Project Management
4.02      The Ministries of National Education (MEN), Fisheries (MPEM) and
Employment (MEFC) would designate senior officials to serve as sub-project
managers. Each sub-project manager would, for the component under his control,
be specifically responsible for (a) determination of the design of educational
programs and their implications for the specifications of buildings and equip-
ment, (b) selection and supervision of specialists and the planning of their
:li



- 26 -
work, (c) determination of training programs for Mauritanian staff and selec-
tion of candidates for training, and (d) reporting on the progress of imple-
mentation. The responsibility for accounting and procurement of civil works
and equipment would be centralized in the existing project unit established
under the First Education Project (Cr. 459-MAU) within the Ministry of the
Economy and Finance (para. 2.18). The project unit would also (a) coordinate
project implementation at the national level, (b) liaise with the Ministry of
Equipment and Transport in respect of civil works procurement and supervision,
(c) serve as a liaison between the ministries directly responsible for project
implementation and the external financing agencies, and (d) monitor project
implementation to ascertain compliance with the credit agreements and other
project documents.
4.03      The project unit would be headed by a director, and an acceptable
candidate for this position has already been selected by the Government.
Detailed institutional arrangements were discussed with the Government during
negotiations, and the Government has confirmed that the project unit will be
attached to the Cabinet of the Minister of the Economy and Finance. During
negotiations the Governinent also gave assurances that it will maintain and
expand the project unit and provide it with adequate office space and will
include in its budget a provision for the salary of the project director. The
project unit would be expected to broaden its scope in the future to provide
project implementation assistance for other investment projects in its area of
competence. Consequently, the project includes financing for training local
staff in procurement and accounting.
4.04      To expedite project implementation the Government would establish,
in a special account in the Treasury, a revolving fund of UM 2 million
(US$42,500) to prefinance local salary costs and the purchase of small items
of equipment and materials and to finance the local cost component of such
purchases. During negotiations, detailed arrangements for establishing and
operating the revolving fund were discussed and agreed, and the Government
gave assurances that the revolving fund will be established prior to July 31,
1982, and the special account will be replenished regularly. Reimbursements
to the Government from the credit account would also be deposited in this
special account.
Specialist Services and Fellowships
4.05      The IDA credit would finance about 51 man-years of specialist
services (Annex 10). About 10 of these man-years are expected to be for
locally recruited project office staff. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from the Government that (a) the qualifications, experience,
and terms and conditions of employment of specialists financed under the
project will be acceptable to IDA; (b) qualified local counterparts to
the expatriate specialists financed under the project will be appointed; and
(c) local staff financed under the project will have qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA and will be employed under conditions customary
in the civil service.



- 27 -
4.06      The project would provide financing for 24 man-years of fellowships
for the training of local staff outside Mauritania (Annex 11), and the cost
of local training seminars to upgrade approximately 220 school administrators
and staff of the regional education offices and the MEN (para. 2.15). During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that it will
(a) award the fellowships to suitably qualified persons for training programs
acceptable to IDA, (b) require the fellowship holders to serve at least three
years in the positions for which they were trained, and (c) review with IDA
the design of the local training courses.
Sites
4.07      Suitable sites have been selected and agreed with IDA for all
the project institutions, and the land is available for the purposes of the
project.
Procurement
4.08      Civil works valued at US$530,000 and equipment and furniture valued
at US$260,000 to be financed by IDA funds would be procured through interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with IDA's guidelines. Items of
furniture and equipment which cannot be grouped in packages of at least
tUS$50,000 equivalent or which are not suitable for international competitive
bidding would be procured in accordance with local competitive bidding pro-
cedures acceptable to IDA. Items below US$10,000 and for which potential
suppliers are limited would be procured by inviting quotations from at least
three reliable suppliers whenever possible. The total value of items procured
by both of these methods would not exceed US$100,00. Domestic contractors
would be given a preference of 7-1/2% in the evaluation of bids for civil
works. Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment procured through
international competitive bidding would be allowed a preferential margin of
15% of the c.i.f price of competing imports or the total applicable customs
duties and import taxes, whichever is lower.
4.09      Procurement of goods and services financed by the ADF and the EEC
would be in accordance with the relevant guidelines of these agencies.
Disbursements
4.10      The proceeds from the IDA credit would be disbursed against the
project items indicated in para. 3.10, as follows:
(a) 100% of total expenditures for civil works - US$370,000;
(b) 100% of total expenditures for professional services - US$150,000;
(c) 100% of total expenditures for directly imported, 50% of total
expenditures for imported but locally procured, and 80% of the
total cost of locally manufactured furniture - US$70,000;



- 28 -
(d) 100% of total expenditures for directly imported and 50% of total
expenditures for imported but locally procured equipment -
US$190,000;
(e)  100% of the total cost of specialist services - US$2,600,000;
(f)  100% of the total cost of local staff training - US$200,000;
(g) 80% of the total recurrent costs during the initial 24 months of
operating the lower secondary teacher training college at its
new facilities and of the operating costs of the organization and
training unit and the project unit - US$840,000;
(h) 100% of the withdrawn PPF funds - US$400,000; and
(i) US$880,000 would be unallocated.
4.11      Disbursements have been estimated on the basis of the schedule of
implementation summarized in Annex 13, taking into account the fact that an
average of six to nine months is estimated to be required for the preparation
and processing of withdrawal applications. The disbursements profile reflects
the relatively advanced stage of project preparation (para. 4.01), which
explains the relatively short time between credit effectiveness and completion
of disbursements relative to country-wide experience in Mauritania and region-
wide experience with education projects in West Africa.
4.12      All disbursements from the credit account would be fully documented
except for training courses and seminars conducted in Mauritania under category
(f) and operating costs under category (g), which would be disbursed against
certified statements of expenditure, with the documentation not to be sub-
mitted to IDA but held by the project office for review by IDA supervision
missions. The total amount of disbursements against statements of expendi-
tures is estimated at US$1.1 million, representing about 20% of the proposed
credit amount. All these expenditures would be in local currency and disburse-
ment would be made only to reimburse the Borrower. Disbursement against
statements of expenditure is the only reasonable method, since expenditures
under (f) would be small and numerous and those under (g) would be for project
unit operating costs. With the proposed strengthening of the project unit
(para. 2.18) and the auditing arrangements (para. 4.13), the institutional
capability to handle this procedure is expected to be adequate. A statement
concerning disbursements against statements of expenditure is in Annex 14.
Accounts and Audits
4.13      The project unit would establish project accounts, in accordance
with accepted accounting practices, to record all project expenditures.
During negotiations the Goverranent gave assurances that (a) the project
accounts will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and the
audits will be conducted annually in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied; (b) the audit reports will be of such scope



- 29 -
and in such detail as IDA may reasonably request, and will include the
auditors' opinions on the project accounts; (c) it will provide IDA with
such other relevant information concerning the account and the audit as IDA
may reasonably request; and (d) the accounts and audit reports, including a
separate opinion by the auditors on disbursements against certified statements
of expenditure, will be submitted to IDA for review within six months of the
close of the Government's fiscal year. The auditors would also be expected
to provide on-the-job training to the accountants of the project unit.
Evaluation
4.14      For most project components it would be too early to evaluate the
educational impact of the project before its completion. However, the CFPP
and CFPM would maintain records on their graduates' employment history which
could serve as a basis for future tracer studies. In addition, the planning
department of the MEN would collect data relevant for future evaluation
studies. The project director would be expected to prepare biannual reports
on the progress of project implementation, and during negotiations the Govern-
ment gave assurances that within six months of the Closing Date it will submit
for IDA's review a final report on the implementation experience and achieve-
ments of the project.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.01      The benefits of the project are expected to become apparent partly
in the medium term and partly in the long term. By 1984 the CFPP and the
CFPM are expected to be fully operational, thus increasing the supply of
skilled workers for the modern commercial, industrial and fisheries sectors
(paras. 1.09 and 1.10) and alleviating some severe manpower shortages in those
sectors. The first lower secondary school teachers are expected to graduate
from the CFPCEG in 1985 to start replacing expatriate contract teachers, thus
stemming increases in the cost of secondary education.
5.02      While the strengthening of educational administration and planning
(paras. 2.15 and 2.16) would not have such immediately visible results, the
establishment of an institutional capacity within the Ministry of National
Education to improve administrative procedures, prepare coherent plans for
educational development and train educational administrators at all levels
is expected to yield significant long-term benefits. These institutional
development efforts, together with the Mauritanization of teaching staff in
secondary schools, are expected to result in an improved allocation and
management of resources available to the sector, thus establishing a viable
base for future expansion of access to primary education (para. 1.36).
5.03      Problems similar to those that delayed implementation during the
initial phases of the First Education Project (para. 1.50) are not expected
to occur in this second project because project preparation is much further
advanced (para. 4.01). Furthermore, the arrangements for project management
(para. 4.02) have been carefully designed, taking into account the experience



- 30 -
gained during the first project. In view of the advanced stage of the archi-
tectural design work, the strengthening of the project unit and the increased
project implementation responsibility of the MEN, MPEM and MEFC, it is expected
-hat the project will be implemented without major delays. However, some
,ld-ups may arise because of cumbersome administrative procedures.
04      There is a risk that the project institutions may not be operated
_ently because of difficulties in recruiting well-trained teaching staff
.nd also because of shortages of operating funds after the project ends.
These potential problems have been taken into account by including financing
for specialist services anc local staff training and by the assurances to
be sought from the Government during negotiations in respect of the funding
of the operating costs of the project institutions (para. 3.13).
5.05      Because of the lack of a significant maritime tradition in Mauritania,
there is a risk that the CFPM may experience difficulties in recruiting
students for the center and placing graduates aboard ships. This has been
taken into account in the design of the CFPM's training programs, which
include extended periods at sea aboard the school boats and trainee programs
aboard industrial fishing boats (para. 2.06). Close contacts between the CFPM
management and shipowners, as well as the representation of shipowners on the
CFPM's governing board (para. 2.09), are expected to facilitate the placement
of graduates under conditions that will motivate them to pursue a career with
the Mauritanian fishing fleet.
5.06      There is also a risk that the educational administration and plan-
ning component may not completely achieve its objectives, as it deals to a
large extent with the attitudes and motivations of people, which are strongly
influenced by Mauritania's social and cultural environment. The design of
local staff training programs should take this soclo-cultural context into
account and the specialists should be carefully selected. The Government
should review with IDA the qualifications and experience of the specialists to
be financed under the project (para. 4.05). To allow for the recruitment of:
highly qualified specialists, the provision in the project for financing the
salaries and allowances of the specialists in educational organization and
management is above the average.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that:
(a) it will review with IDA prior to December 31, 1983, the status of
implementation of the Fourth Development Plan in respect of the
education sector, with special emphasis on the implementation of
cost-reduction measures and the development of higher education
(para. 1.46);



- 31 -
(b)  after reviewing with IDA proposals to involve employers more
directly in the financing of the operating costs of the CFPP,
it will implement measures in this respect prior to June 30, 1982
(para. 2.04);
(c)  it will review with IDA the detailed teaching programs of the CFPM
prior to December 31, 1982 (para. 2.07);
(d)  after reviewing with IDA proposals to establish arrangements for
funding the CFPM's operating costs, including shipowners' contribu-
tions, it will implement measures in this respect prior to December
31, 1983 (para. 2.09);
(e)  the CFPCEG will be legally established by December 31, 1982, with
study programs and conditions of admission acceptable to IDA
(para. 2.12);
(f)  the status of the ENS will be modified to reflect the elimination of
its lower secondary teacher training program two years after the
CFPCEG admits its first students (para. 2.12);
(g)  during the initial two years of operation of the CFPCEG, the Minis-
try of National Education will exchange views with IDA on the annual
budgetary provisions for the CFPCEG to ensure the availability of
sufficient funds to pre-finance its operating costs (para. 2.14);
(h) it will (i) make available adequate office space for the organiza-
tion and management unit of the MEN; and (ii) conduct an interim
evaluation of the results of the educational administration and
planning component and submit a summary report to IDA prior to
August 31, 1983 (para. 2.17);
(i)  it will make adequate budgetary provisions for the operation and
maintenance of all project-assisted institutions after project
financing of the operating costs ends, taking into account employ-
ers' participation in the recurrent costs of the CFPP and the CFPM
(para. 3.13);
(j)  it will maintain and expand the project unit and provide it with
adequate office space, and will include in its budget a provision
for the salaries of the project director (para. 4.03);
(k)  a special account in the Treasury will be opened to establish
a revolving fund of UM 2 million (US$42,500) for the project unit
prior to July 31, 1982, and the special account will be replenished
regularly (para. 4.04);
(1)  the qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
specialists financed under the project will be acceptable to IDA
(para. 4.05);
(m)  local staff financed under the project will be employed under
conditions customary in the civil service (para. 4.05);



- 32 -
(n) the fellowships will be awarded to suitably qualified persons for
training programs acceptable to IDA, the fellowship holders will
be required to serve at least three years in the positions for
which they were trained, and the design of the local training
courses will be reviewed with IDA (para. 4.06);
(o) the project accounts will be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied; the audit reports will be of such
scope and in such detail as IDA may reasonably request and will
include the auditors' opinions on the project accounts, including a
separate opinion on disbursements against statements of expenditure,
and the accounts and audit reports will be submitted to the Govern-
ment and IDA within six months of the close of the Government's
fiscal year; in addition, it will provide IDA with such other
relevant information concerning the accounts and the audit reports
as IDA may reasonably request (para. 4.13); and
(p) it will submit to IDA for review within six months of the Closing
Date a final report on the implementation experience and achieve-
ments of the project (para. 4.14).
6.02      As a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit, the Government
should ensure that all conditions necessary for an initial disbursement from
the ADF loan and the EEC grant have been met (para. 3.07).
6.03      Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the project consti-
tutes a suitable basis for the proposed IDA credit of Special Drawing Right
4.9 million; (US$5.7 million) to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania.



MAURITANIA
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
Ù   French Speaking                                                                                 {
Lower SecondarY Technca                                Upper Seconclary Techn,cal
Higher Education
0   Technrcal>
^. db0pçhone__
P,ima,y Educat,on                                                                                                              0~~~~~~~~~~___________Higher Ed.sca5ron
General
[ }) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gene94ra Educat,on
_nstitute for Ad.anred I     c Stud.es
Arabic Un,viersities
j                                      ~~~                                                ~        ~~~~~~~~~~2 34
Traditional Education                                                                 Traditional Education                                                                 sTraditional Education
Legend
Source  Unesco Mission                                                 Planned
Notes: 1. To lower secondary school <arabic sections).                 E.am.natson after private studies
2. To primary seacher and upPer secondarv schools         -    Examinasion
(arabic sections).                                    E1  Internal Examination
3. To secondary teacher training (arabic sections)        O    Central Guidance
4. To Institute of Advanced Islamic Studies                    Internal Promotion
D daccalaureate                                                                                                               Worid Bank --20401



COMPARATIVE LOUCATION INDICATORS                                              ANNEX 2
JANUARY 27. 1982
t   t       I          :tENTRAL'.t                                 t         t        
t   I       I          t8DVT.I                   .                              
I   t BP? I            IEKP. ONt                 I                            PRI. tRECURRENT>                       :SEC.
t    CAPITAt           tEDU. AS: EDUCATION    ITER-   P RI. tCOMPLE- ISTU- tUNIT COSTIPRO0RESS-t  SEC.  OSTU- 'HIGHER>
t  AT  I          IX TTL. I RECURRENT    tACT         IENROLLITION        OENTStPRIM. ED. >I01  RATE >ENROLL:DENTS.ENRILL>
t   IARRETI Z BNP  ICENTRALIEKP ALLOCATEDI   RATE IRATIO IRATE FORIPER  tAS K GNP/FROM PRI.tFATIO  tPER  >RATIO 
tPOP. tPRICE8t DEVOTEDI  BOUT. t          TOI       t(K OF  t NET  :PRI.5C11. TEACH1I CAPITA  tTD SEC.  tNET   :TEAIH-- GROSSI
YRIMILL8.I  <US$): TU EOU.I EXP.  IPRI. SEC. HI.IAOULTS>t  (Z>   ICVCLE<X>IER    tt(Z>                             t(>1>  :R    t >> 
t  1>   t  <2)1 t   31    t  <4>   t       5>          (6>     (7>   t  >>         (9> t   1>           11)    t(12>  '.13>  t <14> 
AUSTRtlA        74   7.51H 7.520N   5.3D    9.91<   24V  51Y  15V    99             98       93E       26      l0.7C       990       51C     190    16.85V
CANADA          78  23.5  9,670    9.1          4.3K<  25   39   23        99      100      100        21      17.6       100        92      19     22,00
BERNAN  F.REP.79   61.3 10.300         4.88     9.4L    ....... 99                 ...1   100          ..      ..         100        94      221<   12.00?
.JAPAM          75 114.9k 7,700M    4.30W   ...         40UV 37UY ISUY  99          990      99e0      25       ...        998      95KV    201<   24.69Y
NNEfltLANDS    719  13.9  9,200    9.3         13.9L   20   35   24        99       96       93        19      17.9        99       92       13     12.00
MEW KEALAND   73   3.2H15,5301<   5.2W   13.11K   39   24   29              99      99       99        26      19.4        99        67      19,    24.00
NORUAT          76   4.01H 9,560      7.2       9.383  54   24 .- 15       99       99       99 I      16      15.9        99E      62       Il     11.00
INUENM          79   9.3 10,540    9.8FW  10.IL   37   il   10             99       99      100        16F     22.7       >00       79       13F   30.008
U.K<.           79  56.0  4,5968   5.6          2.4K<  26   39   22        99       99       100       24      12.3       100       65       17     20.6
U.S.A.          7e 218.5  9,770        7.1      2.9K<   ..,  5791< 18      99       99       99-       228      .          99       97       190   01.00
EUROPE
9REECE          76   9.4H1 4.35011   2.6W   10.6H<  37   26   21           O6A      99       92C       31       6.2l'    700         80      27     11.00
IRELAND         74   3.211 3,91DM    5.1W    ...        43V  41V  14Y   99         109KV     99A       35      ...        958       61KV    19      15.47Y
PORTIJIL        77   9.911 1,94DM    3.6W   10.7E   41   21    15    7113    92              609       19       7.8?      75*       35       12      5.00
ROKMANA         75  21.911 1.65011   4.0        1.9K<  36   19   13        98      101K       ...      21      ...        98        49       22    1.0.00
SPAIN           74  27.11H 3,96DM    2.4A       8.03<   49V  22Y  15Y . 90A   115KV          ...       35A     ...         ..       7811    30      17.68V
AFRICA
AIBERtIA        79 19.5    1,450H<   7.1W       -.    341<  261<  211<   3511   94XK         451<?     37K<    11.9       520<!     330<?   37K<    5.OOIKX
DENIN           79   3.4   250        6.5       35      43   21       S   il      42         30        46      14.0       30         Il      43        --
BOTSWANA        79P  0,9    720       6.7       19.3   49   29       15   35      94         74        32      22.0       33        20       18      1.10
BURUMDI         79   4.0   190        2.BL      20.68  44L  33L  22L   25         25K        34        35      11.0       17          2.5X  17        0.8
CAIIEROON       76   8.111  490H1    3.7W       13.61<  33   43   20        ..    60         45        52      11.9       20          90     24      0.9OCV
C.A,R,          74   1.911  27011     3.0CW   ...    569   198  ....,    79KV                25        69Y    21.5A    18            8KV    279Y   0.21V
CHIAL           75   4.311  150H<    3.0W       13.5F  78   22    ...    15    29K9V         30        659V    ...         a          2X<8V  30      0,019V
COMOROS         90   0.4   2601<      6.9       25.41  40   29    14       20E      991      65        45      16.0       58        21       30      1.4
001<000E        74   1.511  5901      6.0W      ...     40   32   21       509    133K       63        63      13.38      49        33X    22        3.40
DJIBOUTI        91   0.4   440        .5.4      10,8   60   40       -       10      32       ...      41       ...       60          a      19       0.00
EBYPT           79  383.7   400        5.5      11. 311- 30   35   26        448     73       80        30?l    ...        82         49      17?    15.00
ETHIOPIA        79  31.0    130       2.2       11,59   ...,... ..    15            39       ...       59       ...       ...         9      41     ..
BARON           74   0.611 3,370H1   5.00W    ...       250   90  1110   ...   100V          250       46C      4.7!'    OSA         31Y    210    0-291
BAMBIA          76   0.611  090OH    3.3W        6.511  46   25    6        10      27       90        33      44.7       92         >3      25      .
GHANA           74  11.011  39011      ...      15.51<  43V  22V  20Y0   ...        60KV     629       30V     ...        14E'      35XV    1601   1.09V
,-0UIN1EA         76   5.111  26011    4.31<0     ..      30   31   30       ...      30K      64        45      31.19      86        130<    26       4.00
0>V0RV COAST   76   7.911  95011    6.BW         ..     33   46   12        9A      50       86        43      19.7       47        1701    26       1.64V
KENYA           79-  15.3   390        5.9W     17.91<  71   15   14       45       92       74        40      15.8       41         19      28      1.0
LESOTHO         79   1.3      340      4.1      21.30  41   29   20        52       69       32        49       8.0       65        15       23      0.90
LIBERIA         77   1.711   46011   3.1w   11.9L   23   13   26           30       SOI      ...       54      27.9?      76        24X      16      ..
MADAGASCAR      77   8.311   25011   4.0W   15.30    53   29    19         50       90       33        44       ..,       38        14       23      1.70
9MALAWI          79   5.9      201     2.2119   8.71<   40   23   23    25!         59        1711      6211    10.00     50E         6K     21       ..
MALS            75   6.311   13011   4,2M4W  21.71<   45E  37E  18E    10E          22KE     ...       49E      ...      50E         6K     21       ..
MAURITANIA      79   1.5      270     5.5      16.9     33   43   25       17       32       60        45      52.0      30          9      25        .
NAOJRITIIJS     76   0.911   92011   4.7N   17.5K<  50 -26    6    809              94       99        24      19.5?       90       45       32      1.50
1<050000        en  19.5      740      6.3W    17.51<   36   44   20       24      '72K      35        39      19.7       40        25K      21      4,50
NIGER           77   5.011   24011   2.90   23.30    52   43    S            a      17       50        39      38.7       35         2       24      ..
NIG3ERIA        74  80.611   60011   4.1CV    9.60    23V  16V  42V    ...          49XY     ..        340Y     ...        ...      10KV   201<1    0.48V
R<WANDA         90   5.0      200     3.2    20.7       62   17   Il       23       66       62?       40?     14.0        6?        2       13      0,40
SENEGAL         77  '5.411   36011   5.0       19.9E   46   34   20        10       32       .         49      21.6A    20          10      21       1.0
SIERRA LEDNE  73   3.311   23011   3.4W   16.011   31   36   30            15?P    34K       45        32      13.70     663        131     21       0.13A1
S01MALIA        79   3.711   18511   2.0W    9.111   55   10   21          50       44       ..        32       20.4     40          I       15       1.00
SUDAN          -76  17.411   34011?  4.5W    5.211   48   36    16         20       34       74        33      46.79      33        14       24      1.24
SWAZILAND       79   0.511   590    6.1GW  21.49    37   33   23           65       92K      49       37        7.7     *66         32X<   20        2.00X
TANZANIA        79  17.1      230    6.9NW  11.31<   43   19   10          66F     96        97       58       11,1F       9         4      206      0.38
ToGO            77   2.411   32011   5.5W   13.70   30   29    21          18       74       40        58      13.36      52         -      44       2.00
TUNISIA         79   6.4  1.120       9.8      16.9     41   36   20    62        100        80        39      12.8       30        30       30      6.00
UGAbNDA         75  12.411   28011?  3.4CY    ...       340V 400V 22DV  25A    53KV   . .             34DY      ...       14A        611<1  21A    0.561
UPPER VOLTA   77   5.6H1  16011   3.4W   16.4K<  31   16   32                50     13       23        51      12.1?      19         2      25       1,0
ZAIRE           76  26.811   24011?  6.0W       ...     49   26.- 25       15       86K      44        42K     20.OA     41         101     27       1.006
ZAMBIA          90  5.7       540     5.6      11.IL   48   23   22        44       95       80        48      12.9       19        16      22       1.10
ZIMBABIWE       81  7.7       700     6.6      19.5     62   32    6       74       90       55        39      20.0      85         15      23       0.5»
CENTRAL AMERICA AND0 THE CARIBSEAN
BANAMAS         79   0.2  2.780       6.5N<  23.1I<   36   36   il         93       99       97        24       ..         97       75      19       ..
BARBADOS        76   0.2  2.08011   8.1W   21.7K<  43   31    16    99             106K      99        21      19.9F       99       94X      il,     ...                     qb
COSTA RICA      90   2.2  1.910       9.4      39.1     40   27   33       90  -93           77        33       5.5        77       40      27      14.00
CUBA            78   9,7  1.000       8.0      ...      ... .... 96                 99       99        22       ...        98       65      15      01.00
DOMINICAN REF 72   5.1lH   90011   3.0         11,0F   42   24   22        51       90       17        14       4.51<      63       14       24      7,00
EL SALVADOJR   77   4.311   64011   4.0        19.3L   64       8   27     62       89K      32        39       ...        41       23       21      7.00
GUJATEMALA      73   6.611   930H1   1.9,    12,6K<  55   23   14          47       64       26        35       ...        69        G       25      4.091
HAITI           80   5.0      260      3.4V     ...     65    9      6    23        50       20        41      19.0        62F       4F      2 7     0.0
HONDURAS        78   3.4      480    4,2F   17.8BK   62F  15F  19F   60E            78       30        35      12.89F      68       1l       17      4.00
JAMAICA         BD   2.2  1,240K<  6.5         18.40    37   43   20       90       99       99        40       2.3        95       GO       22     03.00
MEXICO0         80   67.4 1.810       5.0      19.78    46   39   15       92       98       53        44       9.5        86       56       i17    10.30
NICARAGUA       78   2.5      660      3.05    16,9F    610   130  130   90L        61       24        44       7.30       930        4L    37       7.001'
PANAMA          783   1.8  1,260       5.4     12.71<   428  138  13       798      97       820       328     11.6        850      49       341    20.00
TRINIADA   t T. 77   1.1H1 3.101H<  .4.5       11.70<   49   32   20       95       99       91        30      10.5?,      49       62       24       -
SOUTH AM4ERICA
ARGENTINA       78  26.7  1,910        4.4      8.31<   438  31F  196   93          89       52        17       ..          7       31        a     '23.00
BOLIVIA         76   5.311   51011   5.0W   30.5K....... 42L                        90OS     290       24       ...        4..       4               ...
BRAZIL          75 119.511 1.51011   2.80W   6.21<   420  200  2203  64A    89F              ...       271<Y    ...        ...      26F      15PV    6.001,
CHILÉ           75  10.711 1,470H<  3.8RY  13.011   21V   10V  50V    ...   119KVY    ...              351      8.816      ...      48XV    ...    î1-55Y
COLOMBIA        74  25.611   90011   3.30V    ...       440Y 22CV 11V    790    105KV        20        33V     11.08       90       36KV    14A    0,671
ECUADOR         80   8.4  1.369F    6.OP        ...     45   31    16    81        105       49        36      12.6        86       47       16      203.70
GUYANA          74   0.911   56011   5.811   13.411   47   35   14         B38      92K      39        33      19,80       19       620<    24       1.00(
FARAGUAY        79   3.0      920H   1.4       12.61<   42   17   20       94       92       32        29       3.IR       75       22       12      7.00
PERU            75  16.811   68011   4.20V  11.11    40V  22V  15Y   72           111KV      39        390V    11.08       70       4611    231Y104.41Y
URUGUAY         75   2.911 1,79011   2.5        9.4K<  46   34   20        94       93K       .        24      12.3E       83        ...     10      ..
VENEZUELA       73  14.0OH 2,95011    4.6W   19.91<   300I 2982  3502   778         91i       .        33       ...       ...       33       ...   12.62111Y



COMPARATIVE ESUCATIOIN INDIICATORS <CûNiI»'                                   ANNEX 2   ACE 2
-                                               s~~~~5   f 2
JANUARY 27. 1982
*  .     .          t ~~~CENTRAL:.                     .        .         .      .
*  .     .         t  ~~~BOUT. I.                      .       ..                ,
*  tGNPI             :EXP. ONt Z DF PUBLIC t             tPRI. tR~ECUrIc~ENT:                              t       trc  t
*   CAPITA:           tEDU. AS: EDUCATION    tLITER-t PRI. tCOMPLE:- :Sr-- :UNII CO)ST:F'RCBRECSS-: SEC.  StU- tHIGHER:
* tAT  t             :  TTL. t RECURRENT    tAC?        :ENROLL:TION       tL;ENTStPRIM. ES, tION RATE: tENROLLtDENTStE'NROLL:'
:MtARKET: Z GNP  :EENTRAL:EXP ALLOEATESil  RATE: :RATIO :RATE FORflPER  tAS Z GFE/WFRON F:R1. RATIO tEER  ERATIO 
POP. tPRICESI DEVOTEDt 8001. t           TO:      us% 0F      NET  tPRI.SCH..TEACHt' CAPIIA   1TO SEC.   NHETtTEACH-- GROSS:
YRtMILLS.t  (US$)t TO EDU.I EXP.  :PRI, SEC. HI,:ADULTS): <Z)              YCVLE</:I-R    t                5)     t   )  :ER      t<)
ASIA AbNS OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAM    77  14.6H  16DM        1.8      ..,      47   19   15       12     29K        69       37       13.8      62          ex    17       1,00
BANGLADESH      79  92.9M   90        1ilLP  14.9E    51   17   20         220   71K         ...      53       6,2F      ...        14X    23       1.43
CHINA           79 971.0   256        3.3       6.6     34   36   30       66     93         64       27       8.0       83         11K     19      2.00
INDIA           75 643.9H  180H       2,6Y    1.9K.         .    .         298    65XV       ...      43A      ..         ..        29XV   2OAV    2.34EY
IMOOMESIA       78 136.OH  340        2.4W    2. 66G  3'28  C5EG   62             92         48       32       .,        70         19      17      2.00
IRAN            73  35.SH      12,2H 3.3W  12.2H        508  IOR  128   50        77         74A      32      B.OA0                 24      32      4.32EV
IRAQ            75  12.2H 1,850N    6.7CW   ...         .......    26E    938V               ...      22       ...       ...        35XY   26C      IL4-V
JORDAN          79   2.2  1,iSON    6.8        10,8F    19   44   18    70        978        85       32        7.2      94         65      21     14,00
KOREA           78  36.6  1,310       2.BW   16.5K   35   29   36    93           102X       94       49        86C6    91          60      45     18,00
LEBANON         72   3.OH    ...      3.5W    ...       39   40   10    68        86         65       19      23,28      63         26V     25     23,00
MALAYSIA        80  14.2  1.460M   6.7WF  15.0          39   32   13    608    96K           94       20       6.6D'   84           65      25      4.20
NEPAL           80  14.3      140     1,18F   9.9    29F  20F  41F   19F   59F               28F      31F      ...       64F        C4F    24F      0,8F
OMAN            72     B8H 2,79CH   1.7MW   5,1K   96   -    -             20     24X        99       27F     25.0?      ...        0.4X    9
PAKISTAN        79  78.0   270        2,0       2,5K   39   26   27  .2           568        50E      48       6.5       ...        20X    17       6.00OE
PAPUA M.B.      75   2.9H  620H       5.4LW  17,0K   38   16   24          32    57?         73E      31      20,.0?     90         12X?   24       0.90?
PHILIPPINES   79  46.8   600          2,8W   15.7K   64   36***            75      84        65       31       7.0       89         55      36     21.00
SINOAPORE       74   2.3H '3,260H   2.7YW  14.9K   39Y  39Y  17V    72A    109KV             72A      31V      7.4A      99A        44KY   24       7,68Y
SOLOMON ISL.  80   0.23   460         5.4      l1.0K   41   34   20        ..    60         70        36      ...        35         18I 
SYRIA           78   7.9>   96CM      4.4      6,3H   39   25   26    58           89K      80        35       7.7E      68        45K      21     12.60
THAILAMO        77   44.5  530        4.0VW   19.9K  55   30   15    84F   83               30        35      10.0E      70        28       25      3.00
TORKEY          73  43.1H 1.25CM    5,6CVW  18.6K.8..5..V.    S                              ...      34V      7.25      ...       24Y    27DY   5.83V
YEMEN           73   5.6H  410H       0.5W      10.BK  45F  21F  23F    10        158        18       36      19?.3      75          2K     19      0.058V
YEMEN P.8,R.  80  .1,9   424          6.0       10.5   63   14    S    40?   70              53       24      22.4       81        31       16      2.50
SUMMARY FOR 8EVELOPING COUNTRIESI
NUMBER OP COUNTRIESI                 102      82       89   90   90    94        101       si        10:1   71         80        100      99     87
RAMBE'.                             (0.5-  <1,9-_   <20  <8-  <3-   <5-   <C1--          <13-       <16-   <3.1       <G-        <.4--  <8--   <.01
9.9 )30.5)   96 )73)  50)   99)    133K)   99 I                69 I52.5 I         991        95  <45<   41.0)
GUÀRTILESIUFPER I5,6                       17.5     49   35  '22       86    98          91       42      9          91         46      25     11.0
MESIAMI                4.2     13.0      42   26   18      60    82          65        34      13        60         24      22       3.4
LOWER t3.0                      9.9      34   21   13    25        56        33        29      20        41         Il      18       1,0
SVMBOLSt ... OATUM UMAVAILABLE                 A=1971 OR BrEFORE           N=CURRENT PRICES                         SOURCEIC
-MAGNITUDE MIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 8=1972                           F0=5DF-
9  OESTIONAeLE                    C=1973                      O=INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                    COLUMNSCl ANS 2 SORLI' BANK ATLAS
*INCLUSES PART-TINE STVSDENTS 0=1974                          R=CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                          OR 11<8R' MISSIONS
*9COMBINES WITH PRIMARY            E=1975                      S=MINISTRY 0F ESUCATION <MUE) 0NLV                  3 TO 14 IEPRS MISSIONS
**COMBINES WITH HIGHER             F=1976                       T=MOE ANC STATE BOUT. OHLY                                   ANS/OR UNESCO
0=1977   -U=EXELUSING CENTRAL SaUT.                                                      STATISTICAL
N=1978                      V=INELUDIN8 PRIVATE EXPENDITURE                              YEARBOOR
R=1979                      W=PUDLIC EXPENDITURE ONLV
L=1W80O                     K=INCLUS~IMG OVERASES STUItENTS
M=1981                      Y=UNESEO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIDUS EDUCATION SVSTEMS AHI' ANALVSIC 0F RELATIVE ST'AGES 8F ESUCATIOHAL
DEVELUE'MENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES, HOWEVER,OH THE BASIS 0F THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULS DE AFF'ROACHESI VIT>1
GREAT CAUTION, DATA PRESENTES IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTES LARGELT BV THE BANK MISSIONS FROM OOVERNMEN) SOURCES; THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA PROM UNESCO, EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MASE TO STANSARDIZE SiEFIN:ITIONb AHN' WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHnIK THE
ACCURACY OF THt DATA. NEVMRHELESS.SUEH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECTINC SEVERAL RESiPECTS ANS TRE PANE TE WORKIR0 TO IMPROVE TRIEM
PROSRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION 0F ITS OP'ERATIOMAL WORK. 1N THIE USE 0F THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWJINI3 QUALIFICATIONS SHOUL1 l'E DUIcHE IN
<1I'EDUCATIONI AS DEFIMES IN THE TABLE INCLUSES ALL ESUCATIORt ANS TRAINING, FORMAL ANS N(<N--FOR<MAL;
<2)rPRIMARY ESUCATION REFERS TO ECUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL ANS 'SECONSARY' ESUCATION REFERS 110 ALL ESUICAITON AI' IRE SECONDSEY
LEVEL REGARSLESS 0F TVPE <E.S. SEMERAL. TEEHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) 
<3)'LITERACY RATES'<COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINES, FROM CCUNTRY CENSUSES. CH MANV CO)UNTRIES THEY ARE CMLY APPROX-IMATIONS ANS CT Il
SIOUBTF<JL THAT ANV ONIFORM DEFIMITION OF 'LIT'ERATE' MAS BEEN FOLLONESt CONSISTENTLV;
<4) 'PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IH ESUCATION' <COLS 4 ANS 5) REFERS TO ALL CAPITAL ANS RECURRENI EKPEHSITUREI DLVOTEIt ICi ESUCATISU L'Y
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC ASENCIES;
(5)'ENROLLMENT RATIOS'<COLS 7, 12 ANS 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR ANS MEAN THE PERCENTASE 0F- ELIGIIALE CHILCIREN ENROLLOrl' FiJLL-;:
IN THE APRPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIE ANS PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJEET TO A WIDE MARGIN O>' IRROR IN ITIE I~EVEL0F-:.Nb
COUNTRIES OMINO TO VARIATION IN THE ACEURACY SF BASIC DATA<I,E. ASE-SPECIFIC POPULATION ANS, ENROLLME.NT'S). ENR"OLLMEHT FIC0LJ )<E!,
FREGUEHTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER 0F STUSENTS ACTUALLYINC SENOOL. OVERAGEF, STUSENTS W8H05>. INCLUSION 15 INDICHiTL s p-:
FOOTHOTES ALSO IAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



- 36 -
ANNEX 3
MAURITANIA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECTZDEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
LABOR FORCE AND EMPLOYMENT/MAIN-D'OEUVRE ET EMPLOIS - 1967, 1973, 1977
1967          1973           1977
A.  Potentially active population/Population   456,000           553,000        572,000
active potentielle 1/
B.  Modern sector wage earners/salariés du         16,400         22,300         26,000 /2
secteur moderne
of which/dont:
- public administration/administration        7,000         9,000O          --
publique
- mining/mines                               4,200          5,500           --
- construction, industry, public             2,400           3,200          --
utilities/construction, industrie,
électricite - gaz
- tranport/transports                           600         1,000
- banking, commerce, insurance/banques,         600          1,200
commerce, assurances
- fishing/p&che                                 600         1,000            -
- domestic personnel/personnel domes-        1,000          1,400           --
tique
C.  Independent workers (commerce and modern    19,000            20,000         20,000
artisans/travailleurs indépendants
(petit commerce et artisanat moderne)
D. Traditional sector/secteur traditionnel    421,600            491,700        526,000
of which/dont:
- livestock/élevage                        193,000        250,000
- agriculture/agriculture                   97,000        110,000           --
- artisans/artisanat                        45,000         48,000           --
- others/autres                             86,600         83,700
Source: Unesco Education Sector Mission/Unesco, mission d'étude sectorielle
1/ Estimated to be 85% of the active population between ages 15 and 59/estimé
à 85% de la population active entre 15 et 59 ans
2/  Includes 4,300 expatriates/y compris 4,300 étrangers



- 37                             ANNEX 4
MAURITANIA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
ESTIMATED MANPOWER NEEDS IN THE FISHERIES SECTOR, 1980-L990/
BESOINS EN MAIN DtOEUVRE QUALIFIEE DANS LE SECTEUR PECHE, 1980-1990
Deck/Pont
Skipper/patron                                                  77
First Officer/Capitaine                                        129
Second Officer/Lieutenant                                       56
Deck Seaman/Matelot pont                                     1,581
1,843
Engine/Machines
Engineer Officer/OM électronicien                               87
Mechanie/motoriste                                              77
`Motorman/Matelot mécanicien                                   181
295
Total                                                      2.138



MAURITANIA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
ENROLLMENTS AND TEACHERS/EFFECTIFS ET CORPS ENSEIGNANT 1978/79
Qualified
Teachers/       Student:Teacher            Enrollment
Enseignants             Ratio/                 Ratio/           Giris/
Grades/        Age Group/      Enrollment/    Teaching Staff/         qualifiés              Taux                  Taux de          Filles
Level/Niveau                          Classes      Groupe d'âge        Effectif      Corps enseignant                         é dleves:enseignant      scolarisation         f
Primary education/Enseignement               1-6             7-12           81,2860             1,815                 63                  45                      32              356
fondamental
Lower secondary general education/           7-11           13-16            8,638 )                                                                                              21.6
Enseignement secondaire général
(ler degré)                                                                         )            515                                     24                      9%
Upper secondary general education/           12-14          17-19            3,496                                                                                                12.3
Enseignement secondaire général
(2eme degré)
Secondary technical education/               7-15           13-20              679                 76                                      9
Enseignement secondaire technique
Teacher training (primary)/                  7-11           16-20              455                 33                                     14                                        9
Enseignement normal (primaire)
Teacher training (secondary)/                15-18          19-22              209                 26                                      9                                        7
Enseignement normal supérieur
Vocational training/Formation                                                  850                 90                                      9
Professionnelle                                                                                                                                                                                 t
Civil Service Training College/                                                257                 21                                    12
Ecole Nationale d'Administration
Students in higher education abroad/                                         1,179
Etudiants dans l'enseignement
supérieur à l'étranger



39 -
ANNEX 6
M1uR1TANTA - SECOND EDUCATION PPOJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCAMTION
N'ATItON&L AND REGIONAL ROECURRENT
BUDGETS/BUDGETS DE L'ETAT ET BUDGETS REGIONAUX
ESTIMATES IN ACTUAh PRJICES/
PREVISIONS BUDGETAIRES - A PRIX COURANTS
1975  -  1980
(in millions of UM/en millions d'UM)
1975(a) -1976(a) | 1977(a) i 1978(b)   1979(b)   1980Cb)i
Recurrent Government Bud-    4,622.0   5,920.0   7,908.6  10,395.0  10,726.1   < ,Y:  ^|
get/Budget de l'Etat        _                                                                i
Recurrent expenditure/         4,502.0   5,442.0   7,308.6   9,798.4  10,170.0   9,465.8
Dépenses fonctionnement        4          ,         7
Education                        723.1      836.8   1,082.0   1,186.3   1,337.2   1,595.5
% of total recurrent bud-
get/% du Budget total de          16.1       15.4 I    14.8       12.1       13.1       16.9
fonctionnement
Investment expenditure/
Dépenses d'investisse-           417.0      478.0     600.0      596.9      556.1      481.5
ment                                                                    i
Education                                    10.6        5.0 i    16.0        -
% of total investment ex-
penditure/% du Budget                         2.2        0.8 1     2.7 I                 _
total d'investissement                                       .
Regionau Budgets/Budgets                    346.5                             -
Regîonaux
Education                                    38.6       57.3
1% of Budget/% du Budget                      11.1      10.4
GDP/PIB                       18,592.0  22,395.0  23,343.0 124,229.0          -          _
Total education ex-                     i                    i
penditure/Dép. total             723.1      886.0   1,144.3   1,202.3         -          _
éducation
Total education expend-                 |
iture as a % of GDP/Dép.           3.9        4.0        4.9       5.0        -          -
total Ed. en % PIB          _                      -          __.            _
Source:  (a) Unesco:  Education, 1978, annex 22
(b) Recurrent Government Budget/Budget de l'Etat



MAURITANIA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDU,ATION
CO_PARISON OF RECURRENT COSTS PER STUDENT IN SELECTED WEST AFRICAN COUNTRIES/
COMPARISON DE FRAIS DE FONCTIONNEMENT PAR ETUDIANT
Annual Recurrent Cost per Studentl
Frais de Fonctionnement par étudiant
in US dollars/              as percentage of GNP per Capita/
en dollars EU               en percentage du PIB par habitant
Secondary                             Secondary
General                               General
Country/                       GNP per       Primary               Education/           Primary          Education/
Country/                       Capita/      Education/            enseignement         Education/       enseignement
j  Pays               Year/    PIR Dar    enseignement             secondaire         enseignement       secondaire
année    habitant     primaire                 général            primaire           gênéral
Maauritania                  1978       270           142                   797                   52               295
o
Ivory Coast                  1976       610           120                  1040                   20       j       170
Senegal                      1976       420           117                   260                   28                62
Benin                        1977       200            41                    92                   20                46
Central African Republic    1977        250            44                   117                   18                47
Upper Volta.                 1977       118            62                   440                   52               373
Niger                        1976       190            60                   310                   32               163
Togo                         1980       421            31                   184                    7                44
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



M&URITANIA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
COST SUMMARY TABLE/TABLEAU SOMMAIRE DES COUTS
(US$ thousands/milliers de $EU)
Specialist      Local Staff
Services/       Training/        Operating
Professional                                  Services        Formation de        Cost/                        of which        Cost Net of
Civil Works/      Fees/         Furniture/   Equipment/        des             Personnel       Coet de             Total/    Taxes/dont    Taxes/Cout
Project Components/Composantes do Projet   Génie Civil   Honoraires            Mobilier       Equipement   Spécialistes         Local       Fonctionnement         Total        Taxes         Hors Taxes
Vocational Training and Upgrading Center/
Centre de Formation et de Perfectionnement
Professionnel
Base cost/Cout de base                            340              24             57             172           650               -                -              1,243           -             1,243
Physical contingencies/lmprévus
quantités                                        34              2               6              18            -                -                -                 60           -                60
Price contingencies/Imprévus prix                  61               2             13              38             85               -               -                 199          -               199
Total                                             435              28             76             228           735                -               -              1,502           -             1,502
Maritime Training Center/Centre de
Formation Maritime
Base cost/Coût de base                            721             51             135             725         1,140               180            1,062            4,014          265            3,749
Physical contingencies/Imprévus
quantités                                        72              5              14              73            -                -                -                164            2              162
Price contingencies/Imprevus prix                 126               4             27             150           287                38               294              926          74              852
Total                                             919             60             176             948         1,427               218            1,356            5,104          341            4,763
Lower Secondary Teacher Training College/
Centre de Formation de Professeurs des CEG
Base cost/Coût de base                          1,908            176             224             376            700              183               900           4,467          126            4,341     '
Physical contingencies/Imprévus
quantités                                       191             18              22              38            -                -                -                269           -               269
Price contingencies/lmprévus prix                 370              13             53              88            248               34               225           1,031           32              999
Total                                           2,469            207             299             502            948              217            1,125            5,767          158            5,609
Planning Department and BOM/Dépmt. de la
Planif. et Bureau Organis. et Méthodes
Base cost/Coût de base                                             -              30              40         1,180               135                61           1,446           29            1,417
Physical contingencies/lmprévus
quantités                                                                        3               4                             -                -                   7           1                6
Price contingencies/Imprévus prix                                  -                3              6           287                16                15              327           4              323
Total                                             -                               36              50         1,467               151                76           1,780           34            1,746
Project Administration and Preparation/
Gestion et Préparation des Projets
Base cost/Coet de base                            -              150              10              35           640                20                85              940          42              898
Physical contingencies/Imprévus
quantités                                       -               -                1               4            -                -                 -                 5            1                4
Price contingencies/lmprévus prix                 -                -               1               7           171                 3                20             202           10              192
Total                                             -               150             12              46           811                23              105            1,147           53            1,094    A
Total Base Cost/Coût de base total                2,969             401            456           1,348         4,310               518            2,108           12,110          462           11,648
Physical contingencies/Imprévus
quantités                                       297             25              46             137            -                -                 -               505            4              501
Price contingencies/Imprévus prix                 557              19             97             289         1,078               91               554            2,685          120            2,565
Total Project cost/CoOt total du projet           3,823             445            599           1,774         5,388              609             2,662           15,300          586           14,714
Taxe.s                                                               -               12             13             -                -                561              586
Total Project Cost Net of Taxes/Coût              3,823             445            587           1,761         5,388              609             2 101           14,714
total du projet hors taxes



MAURITANIA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJgT EDUCATION
FINANCING PLAN (US$'00O)/PLAN DE FINANCEMENT ($U U'000)
Total Base Cost/                                                               Covernment/            of which Taxes/
Projeet Components/Composantes du Projet                        Coflt Total de Base          ADF/FAF D        EEC/CEE           IDA            Gouvernement                dont taxes
Vocational Training and Upgrading Center/Centre de
Formation et de Perfectionnement Professionnel
Civil works/Génie civil                                               340                     -                -              340
Professional fees/Honoraires                                           24                     -                -               24                   _                        _
Furniture/Mobilier                                                     57                     -                -               57
Equipment/Equipement                                                  172                     -                               172                   -
Specialist services/Services des spécialistes                         650                     -                -              650                   -                        _
Subtotal/Total partiel                                           1,243                                       -           1,243
Maritime Training Center/Centre de Formation
Professionnelle Maritime
Civil works/Génie Civil                                               721                     -               721              -
Professional fees/Honoraires                                           51                     -                -               51
Furniture/Mobilier                                                    135                     -               135              -
Equipment/Equipement                                                  725                     -               725              -
Specialist services/Services des spécialistes                      1,140                      -               760             380
Local staff training/Formation de personnel local                     180                                                     180
Operating cost/Coût de fonctionnement                              1,062                      -                -               -                 1,062                      265
Subtotal/Total partiel                                           4,014                      -            2,341             611                 1,062                      265
Lower Secondary Teacher Training College/Centre de
Formation de Professeurs des CEG
Civil. works/Génie Civil                                           1,908                   1,908               -               -                    -
Professional fees/Honoraires                                          176                     16               -              160                   -                        -
Furniture/Mobilier                                                    224                    224               -               -                    -
Equipment/Equipement                                                  376                    376               -               -                    -
Specialist services/Services des spécialistes                         700                    700               -               -                    -
Local. staff training/Formation de personnel local                    183                    183               -               -                     -
Operating cost/Coût de fonctionnement                                 900                     -                -              771                  129                      129
Subtotal/Total partiel                                           4,467                   3,407               -              931                  129                      129
Planning Department and BOM/Dépmt. de la planif.
et Bureau Organisation et Méthodes
Furnituire/Mnbil er                                                   30                     25               -                                      5                        5
Equipment /Equipement                                                  40                     35               -               -                      5                        5
Specialist services/Services des spécialistes                      1,180                     240               -              940
Local staff training/Formation de personnel local                     135                     90               -               45                   -
Operating cost/Coût de fonctionlement                                  61                     -                -               43                   18                       18
Subtotal/Total partiel                                           1,446                     390               -           1,028                    28                       28
Project Administration and Preparation/Gestion et
Préparation des Pr2aets 
Professional fees/Honoraires                                          150                                      -              150                   _                        _
Furniture/Mobilier                                                     10                     -                -                5                     5                       5
Equipment/Equipement                                                   35                     30               -               -                     5                        5
Specialist services/Services des spécialistes                        640                      20               -              620
Local staff training/Formation de personnel local                      20                     -                -               20                   -
Operating cost/CoOt de fonctionnement                                  85                     -                -               51                   34                       34
Subtotal/Total partiel                                             940                      50               -              846                   44                       44
Grand Total/Total                                                   12,110                   3,847            2,341           4,659                1,263                      466
Physical contingencies/lmprévus quantites                               505                    278              157              66                     4                       4
Price contingencies/lmprévus prix                                    2,685                     875              502             975                  333                      121
Total contingencies/Total imprévus                                   3,190                   1,153              659           1,041                  337                      125
Total Cost/Cout Total                                               15,300                   5,000            3,000           5,700                1,600                      586



MAUEITANLA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/OETOEdMO PROJET EDUCATION
NUMHARY OF SPECLALIST RERVEEE/TABLEAU SOMIREf  DES SPECIALISTES DE L'ASSISTANCE TECHNIOUE
tRefeotence lu                                                                    Total         Cost
ARprlsel                                                                         Mtan-       Eiaeîr-
Report/                                          Nlhnuer of      L-a1/         Monthb/       Ae0>             R ittiog
Référance dans                                     speciaRtntn1  EopatIitsi       Total      EstIEutioos         DOte/
praJert Ctpan.eu.t/                 le Rapport                 Title/                 Nombra de    Mleuetuaient/   MoiR-         des .o.t          Date de                                   Su Jcary sab Desrripeioe/
EléRenta du Projet                dPEvolustit Titre                                  SpéttaRieies  Etpateiés        Ho-seo         ($EU)           Déta  r                               D-pecrti-îu  S-ioare dte Târhet
A.  Vo...tioal Trloiuig and Up-        20.3        V.cational Tr.iniog Advîetr/           I              E             21         187,500             1/82       Art is  cioi  torboical edvite and advint iRe th   auritatts  Direcitr uf the CFPP au the
gradig Center, Nouachott/(etr I-                         ill. en fo   ti-.oi                                                                                                                                  t.  d     .  ilIt.hi.    l~l
grdeiogkto eeter, Nuusrrfet/Ene=eir                ionelle  ou toostua                                                                                           settteg up ut irsErlug progrees/PoRre foortion do corourller technique protrîpat
do eFuuiloet do         - Perthot e. t             profeaonne                                                                                                    aluptdLn du Directeur du CFPP et dutuer dre avis nue le nisc en oeuvre dec prrgeaR.etu
prct...nioune, Noue.kohoti                                                                                                                                       dl'e...igueeu.,
20.3       SperiRiatt i progcsz  devolop-         1             E             24         190,000             1/82       Coordîuate the prerastiou  uf tienthieg peu/rogul-  sd t.iioig nethode .ad tupereite
meut sud  earbhitg terbhde!                                                                                   the icaîulug uf Haurienitu  ioutrureurs/Coerduuuer M    tlaborstiin dot pragrussues de
Spéctelte on néibodes et                                                                                    torv_tt_n et Es =fthudet d'enelgueoi; nopeenteer lu dodun due  ineituoteurn
erugcs,ru                                                                                                    esuclitnleut.
2 03       Vo- utio...aîrutte   în1teuotae/        3             E              39        292,500             1/82       Setlup training pcugess tue Fktlied  -achera i  aut-outive ticdes/Mtre to     pla.c dru
tetteuctoar  do lyessetuenteur                                                                               prageemss  de fureurlue en sécuofque nutueohîlo.
pctoeteioneul
B.  hariti=e Ocalui.i   Ceuetr/        2.08       Prugean Dilcctue/Di-ecteur              I             R             48         4200.00            10/81       Atei.t the Mu-1itsifa  Ditector nieh the ete-t-ap cf thR  CFPM, eepecisily  e  Eetting
Ceutre de Pu.netios  Profus-                      d' étudotp ut  daqto    .tuu                                                                                                                  rd r                       u  Muritn        s f         the
uieele  fsi ioe                                                                                                                                                 osordiuatiao ut ihe peoperstitos ut Ie..rbhîg peugcns,/AneR.tto  Rn DiOtr-re    -'uite"Iln
aveu le dénugrrge du EPPM, eu purtioulfor 1dtublti ..me.t d,uu odrIe tentt    nd .tu
edaqa.t et 1l te-itloo du p-..uue.l =auritanien, ut lu  oourdleatioe de Ru préparatIon
det prograea d'études.
2.06       Hascer of soalulug ucouel!             I              E             36         285,00°°            1/683       uperîso thoecre= ut rIe EFPMo rafufog vesaul aod teado Haueitanlsorrot/Dapee-
tuetou duonavire-écale                                                                              '        vEntas de S'equîpego du sautre-école CFPPM et turmatton d uo éqatpago slautitaieeîe
2.oé       Chietf seguener aI t.inîig             1              E             36         270,000             1/83       operete sud      i     engin    f  e rh ttinigves eI,; tratoing uf eascitei
vnssuî/Chot edrastoten du                                                                                    oerate opnrt-           os ensieteesuce des =o-hînen buvtro-éoue  tureti-e dec
tuvîre-école                                                                                                 ttéonnEoeos essurirselent.*
2.06      MHrtie .ugi.eeruig aad re-              1              E             24         165,000            10/83       Set up teitieg prugrauce i :arti- eogluoorteg sud reftigoratton teclogy'préparattue
fcîgeeatiuu iuuteactur/                                                                                      des peogreume  de fonesetturnarbEnee/fruid.
Peuteeteut machî-e/dtaîd
C   Louer Secondscy  Te0c5er           2.14       Deputy Peogras Di-eorue/                I             E              36        300,000              1/83      ro..diosce the elat/rutîun of tebhing peogeens aed anuite theth  Diectue nie  the                W
Toaiuiug Coîloge/Ceetre de                         Direoteur adjpiet d értdes                                                                                    utoet-p uf ihe Cuilege/Courdoues  lélabarattua den pro-geses d'éteden et                          1
F.-oti.. de PI.fes r ..-   et.                                                                                                                                    . i.tI D1        t     v       dd=a   g. d.  lé- I
CoRGatsd  efuoe   u                                                                                                                                               esîs ter le Rrectnar avec le déurage de  écoRe.
CEG
2P14       SpecIalint in te thing enthodn/        1              E             24             20D            10/83       Sec up teuohing p-ug-ups fte  etudeet teschees/Etubor  des pregcsasnn  dé.tuden  pour
NpéortuRtnt  usnédtbaote                                                                                      les élèves peuteeosure.
d'+ enftedgneenot
2R14       Sperielit int auri1u develop-    I                    E             24             200            l/83        set up tecbi. g peugeastu for  -rude-t trsrben/Eiaboeer des pregeIoeet detuden  p-uu
=nenit ad ovuîslueuo/Npécîelitne                                                                              Son élèves profesetuet.
deons a' étboeatiou et lé#voaslueto
des prugeaneno dotudos.
D. Plauulug LDpartnnet sud             2.16       sp-odallur Ia publio d=iulAtra-         I             E             f6         330,000            10/682      Analpte enlurlg sdmiuiatratve pro.educo-  and prured          ithe chu  duactaui  uctuor sed
H05fDéIpnetes-st ds 1s Pleuif.                    ti-n/Spdcisl Pl.teen ornaitue                                                                                prpurerios ut reconuendntiuon  ftu  teprevenet sud restoe/A.osyee I    p1-      tédur ê  et
et Nattes Cegunin  et fithden                             odes                                                                                                  edbdes d'sdeiulenrarion de Riducatioo e  ptrparer den tere edstloot p-ut Leur
2.16       Spe usî3t le Echuol adetututes-        I              E             56        300,000             10/82      Preparuîiuu uf tlrciuî g peugeune te educaiieal edeisl-atets   for educatiuo  etff
itou  sud eatLugSpéca s lte on                                                                                bith ud.i.iatretine ttep.nsibilitifo/Peépsretiîn don prugrs=net  de fonatiîn eu
re~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d                                                                          p- 1co PI .... reIpdn  i;itet  d-iitaië
2p16       Eda.sitio_u PLi eutu  NpLcteilt/       i              E            36         244,000             10/82      ColleoetIo  sed a.alpede ut edacartue ecarlerfen, ereeerattau uf plEss Par aduos-fun.
Spésîetlncene pleeîfirnctus de                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~develupset, tesîulug sE Haoleusesrt  sud sestlog  SP et un tnntltatîui..  pls..elng
l'édueutluu      aîepnhni d v  litp nte tIr inietnS rp ot EtduteestI/Csllecttu etr uayn^pe des crurîseyques de
Iédee titon, peéperagtin don       s leut pour le développeernt de ldusti    t céi
d0uoe raptité de pleuttenr   Iestitutlonslnée Oses le MIN.               o  e         o
2l16      C ...esulste i    dpeeue,t    fl.o.al  6              E             22         270,000             3/85       Sh.ae-ree  studisu uf epeoifit  p-bl..es i   dac...tie el . d.n. lteatîou, sud pernunnul
uosé lat eduutna gedmsiend teofae/ l                                                                         aed ftneuclal manageent; ced tonohieg i le ters  ertetefn  mettes usé semdvnats/Erudon
Codineot.seou gfetitu  du pe-e.uet  , dsécifit...ue. de courte durée enuadmtnistatuio  de Ijduoatîon, ge-tton du personnel
l'd..e.atio    tn          et  e                                                                             et s.hluintenî    fisauclèce et eueeîgeeePte daut dec ouatent temintrot bon.



Refeteoce in                                                                          Total           Coat
Appreinal                                                                            MOn-          Eotitsa
Report/                                            Nuaber of        L.caI/         Month-/          (US)/           str-tisg
R referen  dans                                      specalist./  EDpatriatea        Total        estisati.n.         Date/
Proecnr Cosponeota/                    le Rapport                  Title/                   Nobre de    Msu itanien./   Mois-            dec coûts          Date de                                      Su-nsry Job Dec ription/
Eletnente du ProJet                 d-Evaluatioo                   Titre                   spdcialistss   Eopatnido        Dness-           (SEU)           Ddroarrage                              Description So Saire des Tâcher
E.  Prejecut i.plee.. tation             4.03        Dtrector/Directeur                        I               M              60         13,000/i              1/82
Office/Bu  e  du Projet
Ed-uation                                4.03        Deputy Difeuttr/Dfrouteer                 I               M              60              7/1              1/82       )'
Adjoint
2.19j4.03       Penceresocai opeulalior                   I               E              48            270                1/82                                PrnSerr adeiiitratios/Desioo du projet
SedéiAliste de 1e prepaatioo                                                                                                                 P
et passati.n  der  arrhées                                                                                          )
2. 19/4.03      A-uuntnt/CesCpt.blr                       I               M              60             31                1/82
2.19/4.03       A.ais.act Ac.co..tot/                     I               M              60              17               1/82                                                                                                         -
Cesptabie Adjpit 
I/ Respo.sibility ailcwaooe ac..rdins te Gcoernnact Civil -e1.ico suais; cai1ry *ed h.usi.. aigowasee will be paid by the Govcrazneai/iadsenité de
fonctien relon la bareme en vigueur dacn  la fontion pcbliqe, le salaite et les inde-îitês de lcgesent dts.t pris eo charge par le geouetanmtent.
b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l



MAURITANIA - SECOND EDUCATIOS PROJECT/DEUXIENE PROJET EDUCATION
SUMNART oF FELLBOUBIIPB/TAUL3AU SOMOAIRESDES BOURSES DE PERFECTIONNEMEST
Befereece ta                                                            ToCal                               Basic
Rep-rt/                                                    Âhrod    Mantha/  Total COsts               ai Tcain.e./             Storting
Rférsa-e da.e                                                 tocsies/  Total        (Us$)/             Qoalificatio.s               Dats/
Poojeat Caeps.aots/                        le Rapport             Field of SBudy/             NuBbeo/    h         Mli -   Coûte tot.au             Fosdnsntss               Doto do               DOrcriptico  cf Bespooeibiittleo'
cdtosata do ProJet                        d'Soalostlaa          SBJots d'tndra               NSbcrc  lEtcrgner HBas-           (DSE)               des Boursiers            Isrraga                    eacrircias des asapoasabili-ds
A. Maitine Tcaiotig Conter/Centro do         2.08         Sesaandhip *nd fitbihS  oper-tio.s.   2         B         24        30,000      Able sesso/Orrrtfia-t d'apti-       10/83
socaocioo prrofsssoooelle ssscîiacm                        oaeotiaisa/cEassodoaa                                                          lads proOsesioanallaesc-itso,                 )
2.08        Mtaioe ensieerinS and reicigeca-      2         A         48        60,000      togitore  or ceahaiciss/É-          lo/81               ttpp
eioa/rsachitnr/frood                                                            aleor ou toahoictra                          )P      ntutrC'MIsrcerCr
2,08        Marine  lectoicity/Elrctrticét        2         A         24        30ç00O      Elotctios1 techtcils/Torch.         10/81
nocitise                                                                        aicie  d éicctcic tt                          )
2.08        Fishito  Ma-ter'a Licenes/Ocevat      1         A         24        30,000       Ms,per-L.c.d dock offi-cr/Officirr  10/82
patron de pêche                                                                 pont -apéni-eeté                              )       îticers tcaiag vesselsiiiclero
2.08        ictassasiae operatiio  ad asin-       2         A         24         30,000      Eopsciaocod .eclenia/Macnis       10/01      )      cvtcea-Acolrs
tenance/OpAratios et entretise des                                              expériaentf 
nschioee des nasaros
B. L-Sc Secondary Toacher Tralniig/          2.14         Teachitc  reZhods/StSldclcBio de      3         A         30        60,000      Diplota inEccottn/Llcacce on    10/82
C-rorr  de Fona-tio. Proteasloccrile de                   0'en0eROne5e                                                                     sciences de l'éd.a.tioo
Prsf.s..cr.  de CEG
2.14        cbaecoocioA/TOcBOSQcea A chant-       p          O        20        40.000       Diplîo  ic Edccatias/Licrncren    10/82       )    Teschicg otaff CFPCE/Ene.ignants
vattio                                                                          ocloocos de i'éd cc.ian                        P    CFPOEC
2.14        Cureiclua deoealpmeat and eva-ce-    2          A         20         40.000     DIgr-a ia Edin  nticc1Ba0trise en    10/82     P
ctio/Svaicaticc et Olobacatica des                                              ecioscos de i'édocacisn                       )
2.14        Librcrtnn/Bihloîhdasirs                I         A         10        15,000   ) QocîofBastB    wtd tpe-functirce      1/83     P    Adelniaccstivo aod teihnlain .aPPtet
aan iaî  tch the  tocec/                      sa   0020E0/PersnlaEtret   t
2.14        School adaieîatcatica/Adeinis-        3         A           B.       16,500   ) oociifiratioeaeteopértsnce            1/83     P     teahnique de asatipa CFPCEG
trastin  colaire                                                             p pr-fesaionn. ie en eppcrt avec
2.14        LsborEatry e---Nsgr--t ced sain-      2         A          6         11,000                                           1/83     )
teeeeoe/Oeetîee et aioteocace dccp 
laboratoires
J                                             î.îOninN L'  t  t ad   2.16  Edac.ti-n at-tti-c  and pla.n.ai/   2  A  20         30,000      Ady-ceed traicicg Os edian ise/    10/81
RO. PLacsdOpseteret mad                                    ScsttetBqna  et plaifiosios do                                                   Etudea aoperoerea eeaieocre                   )
H/Déptur     s -nt de la Pla-if.                          1i  ..cation                                                                      de 0lédocatis                                 )
sE Bossas Bacset MathadesAmoarev .ifadoanenas
0.16        Phblic adentistrattse/BeaasOaattse    I          A         10        15,000      DcNree in Pobli  Bdsiniatratian    10/81           scin in iEhe Mietetey  fdoaain/seroe
et méthadre                                      .                              or Batre/usen  céics .r...                          baroso orgeeteatios et oéthedaa MEN
p.blique 
2o16        Ed..atitnI. adeintetraitse ced         3         A         50        45,000      Degree ic Edocatice ce AdeleBssrs- 10/81
rrsoetag/Adeinista-tean de iédoca-                                             tics BStrnte/Etsdea copgrteces)
tise et for ation                                                               eneatiencsa déidscstiseos D
sdinstietraetves                              p
2.16        Edc..tintca   cdeiatr.i0n  per.   o9Q            L         -         20,000      OffiSerr  with sdeiciotretBer        10/82     )
canal and fie..cial  tepgsaseet/                                                eespsnsibilitie. 0e th. Misatye)
Adeieisteetiss de 1édsaatlOn,                                                   cf adoastlona hsadqsaetrrs and                 )
Bretita  do pecacacel et de. tis.ca.s rogieai cfBi .e..ti/.o..nn aea.                                                               Adetntaeraica *t tharec           Sia.. r .gi  ss
ayant des  releneahiit.d  adlInt-             )      ed cahbal ie/BdSni-atics asa
tea.ivea h l échelon erOonal et              P    nivea-e certesl  ségicasI et de. c-le
2.16        School adiniFtetatn/Adenta-         1I0          L         -         25,000      Dirsotsrcssd Adenistrascre cf    10/82        )
tratlon scta-ire                                                                seruodeey sbohlsa/Sirestssce et               )
admietestoteers As. établieseseete            )                                                     >
asonoSAirea                                   p                                                     N 
D.  ProlJct Iplensatatisa Offitce/            2;19         Penjeat c dectratta/Ossttsn dc        i         i          6         9,000              ..pearace in proJect adeto   tra-   9/83     (Dcpoty) Prcject Directrr
Bceodo ProJet                                              praire                                                                                      ...Sadicae t a tr-da
geeti.c dAr peejete
2.19        Equip-Lent peocar.. t/Pa.s.tits  de   t          A          6         9,000      G.e.esI k.n.aldge cf peoc..enset    9/83            Oepaty PeoJet Ditrector
eebé.s Adqoipe=eat                                                              ia.s.s/C.nn.i..ances NdnArale- an
-sîibes de pa.stio- de marchés
2.19        A.c.c.ting/CReptabilite                I         L         12         2,000       s;    r       teap    a e /er        B              (Ascttsnt) Prcjaot Acc-o.tsnr/Coepthbls
1                                                                                                                 c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~at ce cseptabilité   (dtt)do peojet



ANNEX 12    i
- 46 -                                                      ANNEX 12
MAURITANIA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEI;XIEME PROJET EDUCATION
IMIPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE/CALENODRIER D'EXECUTION
CALENDAR YEAR/Année Civile                                         1980           1981         1982          1983          1984         1985           1986
QUARTER  'H    -    f             -~~~~~~~~~~~~~11 
=-met                                  rietr               i  2   3        T       _        I                _                  T11213_
COMPONENTS                                                       1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4   1 2  3  4  12             4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4
Vocations1 Trainlina and Upgrading Center/Centre de             _           =-
F oxmaticu et de Perfect ent Pr2frssionne l                _     _
EQq9ipen=t-FurcituralEaUiDement-=bilier -|   Z;XNN*st_T4 t-
Spacia11st  sevcaSrie   esécilistes                        j          =-        =l   l  l  *l               l =         =           l     |_=_
Maritime Training Center/Centre de Forma_ tiQn             _    _ _ _ _ i                            - _           - |  |i
FA,Ilip t-Fi,mit,ur lEquipement-awbîlier mi    III1
Specialist services/Services de spécialistes                 'fil            I         _        ! *  *                                 _
Local staff training/Formation personnel national    |               I
Operation/Fonctionnement
Lower Secondary Teacher Training College/Centre de
Formation de Professeurs de CEG                               i          I         IIi                         IIII                           I      I
Civil works/Génie civil
Equipment-Furniture/Equipement-mobilier   __el)                                                            =t                                        I
Specialist services/Services de spécialistes
Local staff traitingjFormation personnel national             +       i                  -
Operation/Fonctionneaent                                           t |           i |  |        il
Education Administration and Planning/Administration
et Planification de l'Education
Equipment-Furniture/Equipement-qobilier   __t_||                                                                                              i!_
Specialist services/Services de spécialistes                      I
Local staff training/Formation personnel national
Operation/Fonctionaement                                   |   |                                 1                       t 
Legend/Lésende:                   Civil works:  architectural design work and preparation of bidding documents,/Génie civil:  élaboratior
des plans architecturaux et des documents d'appel d'offres.
Equipment-Furniture: preparation of equipment lists and bidding documents, tendering and cortract awvard,
fFflfl|h     Equipement-mobilier:  préparation des listes d'équipement et élaboration des documents d'appel d'offres,
soumission des offres, adjudication des marchés.
Civil works: construction/Travaux de génie civili construction
Equipment-Furniture:  delivery, installation/Equipement-mobilier:  livraison, installation
Specialist services: duration of assignment/Services de spécialistes: durée de l'affectation
Local staff training: duration of training/Formation de personnel national: dorée de la formation
Note:  Detailed implementation schedules for each project component can be found in the working papers listed in Anmex 15./Le document
de travail propre à chaque élément du projet présente un calendrier d exécution détaillé pour cet élément. La liste des
documents de travail est indiquée à l'Annexe 15.



-47 -                                      ANNEX 13
MAURITANIA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET £DUCATION
IDA CREDIT ACCOUNT/COMPTE DU CREDIT IDA
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS/CALENDRIER DES DECAISSEMENTS
(US$ '000/en milliers de dollars EU)
IBRD/IDA                                               Accumulated       Undisbursed
Fiscal Year 1/                                         Disbursements/       Balance/
Année budgétaire 1/   Quarter!       Disbursements/      Décaissements       Solde non
BIRD/IDA           Trimestre     Décaissements          accumulés          décaissé
1982                 4                450                 450             5,250
1983                 1                200                 650             5,050
2               250                  900             4,800
3               300                1,200             4,500
4                350               1,550             4,150
1984                 1                350               1,900             3,800
2                400               2,300             3,400,
3               400                2,700             3,000
4                350               3,050             2,650
1985                 1                350               3,400             2,300
2                300               3,700             2,000
3                300               4,000             1,700
4                350               4,350             1,350
1986                 1                400               4,750               950
2               350               5,100                600
3               350               5,450                250
4                170              5,620                 80
1987                 1                 80               5,700                 °
Closing Date/Date de Clôture: September 30, 1986/le 30 septembre 1986
1/ Fiscal year: July 1 - June 30
1/ Année budgétaire: ler juillet - 30 juin



- 48 -                          ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2
MXURITANIA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
DISBURSEMENTS AGAINST STATEMENTS OF EXPENDITURES
1.        IDA would disburse against certified statements of expenditures sub-
mitted by the Government in the case of project office staff salaries and
allowances and other operating expenditures financed by the IDA credit (para.
3.10(f) of the Staff Appraisal Report). A review of the conformance of these
expenditures with the Credit Agreement would be made by the Government and IDA
during the disbursement process as indicated below.
(a) The Ministry of National Education would prepare annual budget esti-
mates for the operating costs, including salary expenditures, of the
CFPCEG, for inclusion in the Governmentts recurrent budget.
(b) The Project Director would submit annually to IDA a budget for
project expenditures including the estimates referred to under
(a). This budget would present expected project expenditures for
a 12-month period, using the expenditure categories of the cost
tables included in the Staff Appraisal Report. The statements of
expenditures would refer to the items included in the annual budget.
The Project Director would attach to the budget a statement showing
the total expenditures incurred previously for each category.
(c) The operating costs for the CFPCEG would be prefinanced by the
Ministry of National Education!s recurrent budget; other exDenditures
reimbursable against statements of expenditures would be prefinanced
by the project's revolving fund (para. 4.04 of the Staff Appraisal
Report).
(d) Justification for the CFPCEGs operating expenditures (salary vouchers,
invoices and receipts) would be prepared by the accountant of the
Ministry of National Education and submitted to the project office.
(e) Justification for expenditures (vouchers, invoices, receipts) would
be kept in the project office files and would be available for in-
spection by IDA supervision missions.
(f)  Documentation for the statements of expenditures would be reviewed
by the Director of the Budget in the Ministry of Finance who would
sign the statements of expenditures for conformity.
2.        Although improvements have occurred lately, accounting has been an
area of concern during the implementation of the First Education Project
(Cr. 459-MAU>. The appraisal mission has reviewed the existing project ac-
counts and agreed with the Government on the following measures that are ex-
pected to lead to a significant improvement in project accounting:
(aY  Biannual audits by an independent firm of auditors that would also
provide assistance with the setting up of project accounts and
on-the-job training of project accounting staff (para. 4.13);



49 -                          ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
(b)  Provision in the project of 12 man-months of fe.llowships in account-
ing for project office staff; and
(c)  Strengthening of the project office and more efficient project manage-
ment by the recruitment of a deputy project director and an expatriate
procurement specialist.



50                                ANNEX 15
MAURITANIA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
LIST OF RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE/
LISTE DES DOCUMENTS ET DES DONNEES CLASSES DANS LE DOSSIER DU PROJET
1.   Mauritanie - Education:  Problèmes et perspectives.  Unesco, Paris,
novembre 1978.
2.   Education Sector Memorandum.  World Bank, June 21, 1979.
3.   Etude de la formation professionnelle maritime dans le secteur pêche.
SATEC, décembre 1979.
4.   Développement des pêches maritimes (en) Mauritanie:  les pêches artisanales
en Mauritanie - situation actuelle et perspectives de développement.
Organisation des Nations Unies pour l'Alimentation et l'Agriculture, 1979.
5.   Développement des pêches artisanales maritimes.  UNDP/FAO Project Document,
no. MAU/80/044/A/01/12.
6.   Projet de Requête du Gouvernement Mauritanien. Nouakchott, septembre 1980.
7.   Centre de Formation et de Perfectionnement Professionnel à Nouakchott -
BIRD - Projet Education II. Ministère du Travail, de la Santé et des
Affaires Sociales, octobre 1980.
8.   CFPCEG - étude architecturale - esquisses.  Cabinet Chesneau, Verola,
Castenet, octobre 1980.
9.   CFPP - étude architecturale. Cabinet Messaoud et Martinoli, architectes,
octobre 1980.
10.  CFPM - étude architecturale - esquisses.  Cabinet Messaoud et Martinoli,
architectes, octobre 1980.
11.  Detailed working papers on each project component /Documents de travail
pour chaque élément du projet:
- Centre de Formation et de Perfectionnement Professionnel (CFPP)
- Centre de Formation Professionnelle Maritime (CFPM)
- Centre de Formation de Professeurs des CEG CCFPCEG2
- Collège d'Application
- Administration et Planification de l'Education
- Gestion du Projet



IBRD 1561ORI
16'                                        12                                        g     ,                 FEBRUARY 1982
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC 0F MAURITANIA
REJL/e  JSL4E/QL' /LDEDUtD MA/R/T AN/L=F |'
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                   MAURITANIA I
05(1%U/M(/gH/IF iPROJTJ D L7DUCAOIV                                                                                         A F R I C AT/O/V
2,d PROJECT,2è,ttePROJET
A   A   tFTAIIGADUE//RADING CENTER              MRTM
0    A      MARTETRÊ DE FORMATIrOAN ET DE PRFAEDCcTIEONNEÉMENTr MARITIMË
M   ÉLDWER SECONDARY TEACIIEO TRAININ4G COLLEGE
CENTRE DE FORMATDON DE PROFESSEU6RS DE C E                                                                            `
Ust and 2nd PROJECT,Ient2etpPROJET
VOCAtlONAL TRAINING ANO iI RADIN  CEFNT//R
'AI        ~~CENVTRE DE FORMATI1ON ET DE PERFECTIONNEMENT PROFESSeONNEL                                    
I1sE PRC!ECT; IpePROJEZT.
FARMER TRAINING CEN`TER
CENTRE DE FOR4A TION AGRICOLE                                                         _                                                         2-
FAVED ROADS
ROUTES REVETUESAcu
GRAVEL ROADGOnu
ROULTESENGRAVIER
----- TRACKS                                                                                                               A L G E R !A
PIS TES
RAI LROAGS 
CHEMIN DE FER
'     AIRFIELDS                                               \
TERRAIN D'A VIA T/ON
INTERNATIONAL 8OUNDARIES
FRONTIERES NATIONALES
-     ANG/GEHSrHer/R/ eTG/t/FTt/eFOptieR                            !                  ,    -E"
SA//ARA-EEr ITD!  EGPAG/0/)L '$ 0   ,02  IAI                   I ,1B r-Moghre,n
ijf'                                             FOR ER\                                                                             , FORMER  k
GO   D   50/IC 0 D           2C0 250  = S P,O/,rfA  SHj i 
t/C24LTE,G                       S A H AR, A                 j                                                                                 24-:
>                0  Fuérate          ~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~ ~` '                      ,2           |  M  A  L  I
2;  ---                    ! g                                            J                i             1~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------
,,,                                                !------------
Guera   un,dh b u                                  Cum      ,'>udn
La Guerro@                                             (        " --
Seguelrl                     -    p                    `AL
'                              Ca   "k C            T    a               Tchittg"
NOUAKCHOTT_,                                                                          , 
<          )    30uhi~~~~~Sotllm jt  CllngaO,         udérl          !                                       `
-egAleg    ,
t-~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~--ad
>É     `           *M'Bout    /1                      S ~~~~~~~~~~~~1',/oTimbedraj                                1'
itL 6. St tOUI' `< !/JE ~~~~~~~Moundere /«  
t 2,X Matamt \r-,d i                       _.
'k  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
i                                                                            /à+Xbb
ci NAKRUAKCa                                                                                          M                _
;)      hb+fnteTesmhcw oakeîtma ds  01Dtu ma/a h Rto h WrdBn n 
t~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Mdrr    -- /6                                                                   4'/Dne A(os  8             N m



