Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H260 RW 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Third Poverty Reduction Support Grant) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 19, 2006 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H260 RW 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated December 19, 2006, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
RWANDA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program 
(as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis
,
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under 
the Program and which are described in Section I.B of the Schedule to this Agreement; and 
(b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework.  The 
Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to thirty-three million 
eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 33,800,000
)
(“Grant”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Un-withdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar.
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and 
the actions specified in Section I of the Schedule to this Agreement; 
Page  3
-
-
2
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this  
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would 
have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any 
action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Section I of the 
Schedule to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
A
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
the Recipient has submitted to the Association the draft 2007 budget of each of 
its Districts, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and consistent 
with its Decentralized Service Delivery Policy; and 
(b) 
the Recipient’s Parliament has adopted the Public Procurement Code, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with paragraph 13 of 
the LDP. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date 90 days after the date of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the minister at the time responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
P. O. Box 158 
Kigali 
Rwanda 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(250) 57 75 81 
 
Page  4
-
-
3
6.03. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
 
By 
  /s/ 
Zac 
Nsenga 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By 
  /s/ 
Hartwig 
Schafer 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
-
-
4
SCHEDULE 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
Actions Taken under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under the 
 
Program include the following: 
A. Education
1. Preparat
ion of the Recipient’s draft 2007 budget and 2007-09 MTEF ceilings for 
the sector, both in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and 
consistent with the Recipient’s Education Sector Strategic Plan, in accordance 
with paragraph 4 of the LDP. 
2. 
Presentation, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, of the 
Recipient’s draft MTEF for the sector to the Recipient’s development partners
 
in 
September 2006, in accordance with paragraph 4 of the LDP. 
B. Health
3. 
Implementation, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association,
 
of
the 
recommendations of the 2005 comparative review of the two (2) pilot 
performance-based contracting schemes for high-impact services (immunization, 
assisted deliveries) implemented in Butare and Cyangugu Provinces from 
January to December 2004, including Recipient-financed expansion, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, of such schemes to at least three (3) 
Regions, in accordance with paragraph 5 of the LDP. 
 C. 
Water
4. 
Conclusion of contracts, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
with local private operators, for the management of at least ten percent (10%) of 
the Recipient’s rural water supply systems, in accordance with paragraph 6 of the 
LDP. 
D. Energy
5. 
Adoption by the Recipient’s Cabinet of revised electricity tariffs, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, and reflecting a balance, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, between protection of industrial 
accounts and cost-recovery requirements, in accordance with paragraph 7 of the 
LDP. 
E. 
Private-Sector Led Growth
6. 
Issuance of the Recipient’s National Microfinance Policy, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with paragraph 10 of the LDP. 
Page  6
-
-
5
7. 
Recruitment of at least 25% of the staff of the Rwanda Agricultural Development 
Authority and Rwanda Animal Resources Development Authority, with 
qualifications, experience, and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and commencement of operations of these agencies, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with paragraph 10 of the LDP. 
 
F. 
Public Expenditure Management
8. Submission 
to 
the Recipient’s Cabinet, of the Recipient’s draft 2007 budget law, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, including consistent with 
the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework, 2007-09 MTEF, including 
detailed, output-oriented MTEFs for the education, health, water, and energy 
sectors, and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper priorities, in accordance with 
paragraph 12 of the LDP. 
 
9. 
Submission to the Recipient’s Parliament of the Recipient’s 2005 Budget 
Execution Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, through 
the Recipient’s Auditor General and along with her opinion thereon, in 
accordance with paragraph 12 of the LDP. 
 
G. 
Transparency and Accountability
10. 
Issuance of Volumes 2-4, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
of the Recipient’s Financial Management and Accounting Policies and 
Procedures Manual, in accordance with paragraph 12 of the LDP. 
 
11. 
Review, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, by the Recipient’s 
Office of the Ombudsman, on a sample basis, of at least 15 percent (15%) of the 
2006 declarations of assets of the Recipient’s public officials, in accordance with 
paragraph 13 of the LDP. 
 
H. 
Monitoring and Evaluation
12. 
Issuance and dissemination of the Recipient’s 2005 Annual PRSP Progress 
Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association and covering the 
full period of implementation of its PRSP (2002-05), in accordance with 
paragraph 14 of the LDP. 
 
13. 
Allocation, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, in the 
Recipient’s draft 2007 budget law, for expansion of the Recipient’s Citizen 
Report Card program to all of the Recipient’s Districts, in accordance with 
paragraph 14 of the LDP. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. 
General.   
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
Page  7
-
-
6
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amount of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing 
Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR) 
Single Tranche 
33,800,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
33,800,000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association; and 
 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Reci
pient’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
 
D. Audit.
 
The Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have the account referred to in Section II.C.1 of this Agreement audited by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six (6) months after the end of the Recipient’s fiscal year, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request; and 
 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such account and its 
audit as the Association shall reasonably request.
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Association determines at any 
 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association.  Amounts refunded to 
 
the Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2007. 
Page  8
-
-
7
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
2. 
“Auditor General” means the Recipient’s official responsible for the carrying out of 
financial and performance audits to provide independent and reliable information to the 
Recipient’s Parliament on a variety of matters, including the Recipient’s financial 
condition, its use of public funds in compliance with law and regulations, and the 
efficiency and effectiveness of its program operations. 
3. 
“Budget Execution Report” means the Recipient’s report, prepared by its ministry at the 
time responsible for finance, on implementation of the Recipient’s budget. 
4. 
“Citizen Report Card” means the household survey of the Recipient’s citizens’ views on 
the relevance and quality of its public service delivery. 
5. 
“Decentralized Service Delivery Policy” means the Recipient’s document of 
May 31, 2006
 
setting out its policy for the development and strengthening of 
decentralized service delivery in its territory. 
6. 
“District” means an administrative area of the Recipient, established pursuant to the 
Recipient’s Law No. 29/2005 of December 31, 2005, representing a designated area and 
population within the territory of the Recipient. 
7. 
“Education Sector Strategic Plan” means the document setting out the Recipient’s 
policies, programs, and financing strategy for its education sector. 
 
8. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another Financing, credit, grant, or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the 
 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986)  
(the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the 
SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
 
Group Sub-group 
Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, un-
worked or worked 
Page  9
-
-
8
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares (including 
set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the  
United Nations; and 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that  
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds 
during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Recipient  
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation. 
9. 
“Financial Management and Accounting Policies and Procedures Manual” means the 
Recipient’s document of July 2006 setting out the financial management and accounting 
policies and procedures applicable to its operations. 
10. 
“Financing Agreement” includes all appendices, schedules, and agreements 
supplemental to the Financing Agreement. 
11. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credit and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
12. 
“Letter of Development Policy” or “LDP” means the letter referred to in paragraph 15 of 
this Section I. 
13. 
“Medium-Term Expenditure Framework” or “MTEF” means the transparent planning 
and budget formulation process whereby a government cabinet of ministers establishes 
credible envelopes for the allocation of public resources to its strategic priorities while 
ensuring overall fiscal discipline. 
14. 
“National Microfinance Policy” means the Recipient’s document of August 2006
 
setting 
out its policy for the development and strengthening of its microfinance sector. 
Page  10
-
-
9
15. 
“Office of the Ombudsman” means the Recipient’s entity established pursuant to the 
Recipient’s Law No. 25/2003 of June 15, 2003, and which is responsible for investigation 
of allegations of abuse of office and corruption by the Recipient’s public officials. 
16. 
“Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper” or “PRSP” means the document setting out a 
country's macroeconomic, structural, and social policies and programs to promote growth 
and reduce poverty, as well as associated external financing needs, prepared by 
governments through a participatory process involving civil society and development 
partners, including the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. 
17. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives, and policies designed to  
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred  
to in the letter dated November 2, 2006 from the Recipient to the Association declaring 
the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance 
from the Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
18. 
“Province” means an administrative area of the Recipient, established pursuant to the 
Recipient’s Law No. 43/2000 of December 29, 2000, representing a designated area and 
population within the territory of the Recipient. 
19. 
“PRSP Annual Progress Report” means the Recipient’s annual evaluation of 
implementation of its PRSP. 
20. 
“Public Procurement Code” means the Recipient’s legislation referred to in 
Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement and setting out the policies and procedures applicable 
to its procurement activities. 
21. 
“Region” means an administrative area of the Recipient, established pursuant to the 
Recipient’s Law No. 29/2005 of December 31, 2005, representing a designated area and 
population within the territory of the Recipient. 
22. 
“Rwanda Agricultural Development Authority” means the Recipient’s agency 
established and operating under its Cabinet decision of June 29, 2005 and responsible for 
the development of its agricultural sector. 
23. 
“Rwanda Animal Resources Development Authority” means the Recipient’s agency 
established and operating under its Cabinet decision of June 29, 2005
 
and responsible for 
the development of its animal resource sector. 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions  
 
for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, are as follows: 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications 
 
for Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
Page  11
-
-
1
0
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing. ” 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”. 
Page  12
-
-
1
1
wb10120 
M:\!WP-DOC\RWANDA\Projects\PRSG III\Signing\FA (Signing).doc 
12/06/2006 11:52:00 AM
 
