Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:
 AB2587
 
Project Name 
Third Poverty Reduction Support Grant 
Region 
Africa 
Sector 
General education sector 25% 
Health 25% 
General Water Sanitation and Flood Protection 25% 
General Energy Sector 25% 
Project ID 
P098129 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Rwanda 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
Date PID Prepared 
October 4, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 19, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
December 7, 2006 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
Rwanda is a small, landlocked country in Sub-Saharan Africa with a population of approximately 8.2 
million and per capita GDP of approximately US$250.  Around 60 percent of the population is estimated 
to be poor, while around 85 percent of the population lives in rural areas.  Population density, at about 
340 inhabitants per square kilometer, is one of the highest in the world. In 2005, agriculture accounted 
for about 43 percent of GDP, services for about 38 percent (consisting mainly of wholesale and resale 
trade in various products, transportation, and public administration) and industry for about 19 percent (of 
which manufacturing accounts for 9 percent and construction 10 percent). 
 
While much remains to be done, Rwanda has made a remarkable transition from reconstruction to 
development over the twelve years since the 1994 genocide.  As a result of extensive economic and 
governance reform measures taken between 1995 and 2005, GDP growth rates averaged over 7.4 
percent per annum.  During reconstruction, the GoR focused on rebuilding
 
institutions and improving 
social indicators, which led to significant improvements in education and health outcomes.  While 
continuing to pursue this agenda, the GoR is now strongly focused on growth in an attempt to maintain 
the high growth rates of the 1990s.  However, implementation of the GoR’s growth agenda is likely to 
depend on significant levels of external assistance for some time to come, even in light of recent 
agreements on debt forgiveness. 
 
To date, about 3.5 million Rwandan refugees have been repatriated and resettled (an impressive record 
compared to other countries).  Through the Genocide Survivors Fund, the GoR provides support in 
education, shelter, health, and income-generating activities to the most vulnerable of the genocide 
survivors.  A Unity and Reconciliation Commission, which was established to consolidate the GoR’s 
policy in redressing the legacy of divisive politics that has been prominent in Rwanda for many decades, 
continues to raise public awareness through civic education initiatives called 
Ingando
,
and there has 
been extensive dialogue in the country on unity, reconciliation, justice, security, and democratization.  
About 15,000 members of ex-FAR (the former government army) have been integrated into the 
Rwandese National Army at various command levels. From 2004 to 2005, Rwanda accelerated the 
resolution of cases under the 
Gacaca
1
courts (i.e., community-based legal hearings of genocide accused) 
and in 2005 
Gacaca 
jurisdictions were expanded from one tenth of the territory to the whole country. 
 
1
Literally, “justice on the grass.” 
Page  2
The first phase of decentralization (2000-2003) established democratic and community development 
structures and initiated the process of building their capacities.  Several legal, institutional, and policy 
reforms were undertaken, covering roles and responsibilities of central and decentralized structures, 
financing of services, and accountability mechanisms.  The second phase (2004-2008) is meant to 
consolidate and deepen decentralization by emphasizing service delivery to communities through a well-
integrated accountability network.  This includes greater participation and involvement of communities 
in the planning and management of their affairs, mainstreaming “bottom-up” input into sectoral 
strategies and plans, most notably District Development Plans. 
As part of this second phase, a territorial reform law came into effect in January 2006. Under the law, 
the number of provinces was reduced from 13 to 5 (including Kigali City); the number of districts was 
reduced from 106 to 30; and the number of 
secteurs
 was reduced from 1,545 to 418 (the number of 
cellules
,
the lowest level of local administration,
 
remained 9,165).  Local elections for district mayors 
and district councils were held in February and March 2006.  As part of the GoR’s civil service reform 
program (supported by DFID), some central staff are being relocated to districts to help address capacity 
constraints.  The third phase will be a continuous process of improving, supporting, and sustaining 
achievements of the previous phases. 
Following the adoption of a new Constitution and multi-party presidential and parliamentary elections in 
2003, the political situation within Rwanda remains stable and, despite isolated incidences of 
corruption
2
,
commitment to good governance remains strong.  A minister in charge of good governance 
was appointed in 2004.  The Office of the Ombudsman was established and elections of mediators and 
national women councilors were successfully completed.  In addition, all forms of discrimination have 
been outlawed, including those related to identity cards in schools.  Corruption is monitored and 
sanctions are applied.
 
Accountability for decisions is enforced through a strong public service ethic that 
is backed-up by audits.  As a demonstration of its continuing commitment to good governance, 
following consultative meetings in late 2005, Rwanda hosted the Sixth Africa Governance Forum in 
May 2006
 
to share experiences regarding the challenges and opportunities learned from the Africa Peer 
Review Mechanism under the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD).  
The country still faces challenges related to improving political voice and participation.  There have 
been reports of limits on the freedom of expression of political parties and the media.  The GoR has 
requested assistance from donors on creating more open political dialogue, and bilateral donors, such as 
USAID, are actively working with the GoR in this area.  Tensions and concerns over the 
Gacaca
 
process have resulted from the slow progress of cases, coupled with reports on improper conduct on the 
part of some judges.  In 2005, jurisdictions were expanded from one tenth of the territory to the whole 
country, resulting in the completion of 4,000 cases. 
 
2.  Operation Objectives  
The proposed Poverty Reduction Support Grant (PRSG) is the third in a series designed to assist the 
Government of Rwanda (GoR) to implement key policy actions outlined in its 2002 Poverty Reduction 
Strategy Paper (PRSP), which focuses on (a) creating a favorable private sector investment climate to 
promote macroeconomic stability and sustained economic growth; (b) improving quality, coverage, and 
equity of basic service delivery through improved expenditure efficiency; and (c) supporting overall 
improvement of public expenditure management and governance, with an emphasis on transparency and 
accountability to citizens’ voice and participation. The proposed PRSG III continues support to the GoR 
as it implements the next steps in its reform program, now being undertaken in an environment of 
enhanced decentralization. Within this context, PRSG III is expected to build on the successes with 
decentralized service delivery under PRSC/G I and PRSG II, particularly in education, health, water, and 
2
For example, the declaration of misprocurement under the Bank’s Human Resources 
Development Project has been 
resolved, with the GoR agreeing to reimburse the Bank. 
 
Page  3
energy.  PRSG III would continue to help the GoR maintain a stable macroeconomic framework, 
creating the basis for private sector-led economic growth, driven by agricultural transformation, export 
promotion, financial sector deepening, and information communications technology (this agenda 
expected to be a main focus of the GoR’s second PRSP, which is currently under preparation). PRSG III 
would also help the GoR to strengthen further the linkages between strategic planning, its Medium-Term 
Expenditure Framework (MTEF), and budgeting, with a particular focus on the service delivery sectors 
mentioned above. PRSG III would continue to help the GoR improve governance and transparency 
through further reforms to the fiduciary framework and empowerment of local communities. Given 
important linkages to the growth agenda, the policy dialogue in the transport sector continues, while at 
the GoR’s request, dialogue on social protection would be added. 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
PRSG III would help the GoR build on the successes with decentralized service delivery under PRSC/G 
I
and PRSG II, particularly in education, health, water, and energy.  PRSG III would continue to help the 
GoR maintain a stable macroeconomic framework, creating the basis for private sector-led economic 
growth, driven by agricultural transformation, export promotion, financial sector deepening, and ICT, 
which is expected to be a main focus of the EDPRS.  PRSG III would also help the GoR to strengthen 
further the linkages between strategic planning, its MTEF, and budgeting, with a particular focus on the 
service delivery sectors.  PRSG III would continue to help the GoR improve governance and 
transparency through further reforms to the fiduciary framework and empowerment of local 
communities.  Given important linkages to the growth agenda, the policy dialogue in the transport 
sector, introduced under PRSC II, would continue while, at the GoR’s request, dialogue on social 
protection would be added.  At the end of PRSG III (end-2007) results under this first PRSC/G series for 
Rwanda will be assessed.   The expected outcomes and selected outcome indicators shown are linked to 
the specifics of the PRSC/G program in Rwanda (which in turn is linked to the GoR’s PRSP) and the 
MDGs.  The expected outcomes shown are, for the most part, higher order outcomes than the output 
targets used in Rwanda’s PRSP matrix.  
 
This programmatic operation would continue support for the implementation of the GoR’s first 
PRSP, which was prepared in a participatory manner and which has strong country ownership.  
The proposed PRSG III also supports the GoR’s decentralization program, which was accelerated 
in 2006 with the swift passage and implementation of a territorial reform law.  Within the 
enhanced decentralization framework, benefits of PRSG III would continue to accrue to the 
population overall, with a particular focus on poor people in rural and urban areas. Particularly in 
the context of enhanced decentralization, the proposed PRSG III focuses on the ability of the 
central government to enable local government to improve delivery and increase equitable access 
to basic services (health, education, water, energy). To this end, PRSG III builds upon successes 
under PRSC/G I and PRSG II, particularly the transfer of capitation grants in education and 
performance-based contracting of high-impact health services via local health centers. The 
objective remains to improve human development outcomes and achieve Millennium 
Development Goals. PRSG III preparation capitalizes on the much improved, fully government-
led donor coordination, a direct result of the budget support program in Rwanda. 
4. Financing 
Grant Amount: SDR 33.8 million 
Term:  Grant for USD50 million equivalent  
Tranche: Single-tranche to be disbursed upon effectiveness. 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
Page  4
MINECOFIN is responsible for implementing the proposed PRSG III and for coordinating the 
co
mpletion of actions. MINECOFIN’s Development Planning Unit is responsible for overall monitoring 
of the GoR’s poverty reduction programs and the Bank will continue to work closely with this unit and 
with the GoR in general on the implementation of its M&E framework. MINECOFIN also relies on its 
Budget Monitoring and Reporting Team, which is responsible for ensuring that component sector 
spending plans developed with PRSG support are incorporated into the national MTEF and subsequent 
budget, to work with the Bank to track progress on the implementation of PRSG III. Annex 5 contains a 
list of monitoring indicators for Rwanda’s PRSP, which will also be the basis for monitoring and 
evaluating progress on the implementation of PRSG III, and for the Implementation Completion Report 
to be undertaken after the disbursement of PRSG III, to evaluate achievements under Rwanda’s first 
PRSC/G series.
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
Benefits 
The proposed PRSG III also supports the GoR’s decentralization program, which was accelerated 
in 2006 with the swift passage and implementation of a territorial reform law.  Within the 
enhanced decentralization framework, benefits of PRSG III would continue to accrue to the 
population overall, with a particular focus on poor people in rural and urban areas.  Particularly in 
the context of enhanced decentralization, the proposed PRSG III focuses on the ability of the 
central government to enable local government to improve delivery and increase equitable access 
to basic services (health, education, water, energy).  To this end, PRSG III builds upon successes 
under PRSC/G I and PRSG II, particularly the transfer of capitation grants in education and 
performance-based contracting of high-impact health services via local health centers.  The 
objective remains to improve human development outcomes and achieve Millennium 
Development Goals.  PRSG III preparation capitalizes on the much improved, fully government-
led donor coordination, a direct result of the budget support program in Rwanda.
 
Risks  
Though international and regional efforts to mitigate instability continue, the risk of flare ups in the 
eastern Congo is not negligible.  The Bank supports efforts aimed at fostering peace and security 
between Rwanda and its neighbors.  Reports exist of tensions around the 
Gacaca
 process and limits on 
the freedom of political opposition and the media (particularly given its role in the genocide) due to the 
GoR’s concerns of a return of ethnic division.  However, internally Rwanda’s security and political 
situation remains stable. Predictability of donor financing and availability of concessional financing 
remain issues, though alignment of donor disbursements with the GoR’s budget cycle has improved. 
Risks associated with weaknesses in the country’s fiduciary framework, particularly at decentralized 
levels, is a concern.  The GoR is taking action to address this, for example by developing easy-reference 
guidance on procurement and training accountants to be deployed at the local level.    
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
Extensive Environmental Assessment and Social Analysis was undertaken during the preparation of 
PRSC/G I to identify possible positive and negative linkages between PRSC/G support and 
environmental and social impacts, including examining the Bank’s safeguards definition of social 
impacts in regard to involuntary resettlement, indigenous peoples, and cultural property.
3
It also took 
3
Note that in context of Rwanda’s history, particularly in the aftermath of the 1994 genocide, the term ‘indigenous peoples’ is 
extremely ambiguous as it implies that some ethnic groups were established in Rwanda before others. The basis of this assumption 
was widely used to justify the genocide is therefore extremely sensitive.  The GoR’s current policy, as part of the national unity and 
reconciliation process, is based on equal rights for all without distinguishing between ethnic or regional affiliations in the country.  
The new Constitution states that all persons are equal before the law and shall enjoy, without any discrimination, equal protection of 
Page  5
into account the widespread environmental and social analysis undertaken for other Bank operations. 
While PRSC/G support is not expected to have any significant negative environmental or social impacts, 
the analysis focused on the environmental and social issues facing Rwanda and the capacity of national 
and local public sector agencies’ roles and responsibilities to manage them.  PRSG IIII continues to 
draw on the Environmental Assessment and Social Analysis undertaken for PRSC/G I to help the GoR 
establish the regulatory, administrative, and technical capacity to identify, mitigate, and monitor 
environmental and social issues in a sustainable manner.  PRSG III would continue support for the 
Rwanda Environment Management Authority (REMA), which was newly established under PRSC/G I 
and has become very active in environmental management in Rwanda.  
 
The GoR is keenly aware of the environmental issues facing the country and is signatory to several 
international agreements aimed at environmental protection, including the Convention on Biological 
Diversity, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Kyoto Protocol, the 
Convention to Combat Desertification, the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of 
Wild Flora and Fauna, and the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands.  Regarding environment, the 
assessment undertaken for PRSC/G I identified Rwanda’s key concerns as: land degradation, 
deforestation, water contamination, loss of biodiversity and habitats, and wetlands degradation.  The 
GoR is actively addressing deforestation, having adopted a policy of reforestation several years ago.  
Tree planting programs occur throughout the year, and there is also an annual national tree planting day.  
The GoR has also formulated a National Wetland Conservation Program for 2002-2030 and has 
identified four major complex wetlands as critical ecosystems for which integrated management is a 
priority.  The GoR has designated several national parks (Parc National des Volcans, Nyungwe Forest 
National Park, Akegera National Park), which form the basis for the strong ecotourism focus of the 
tourist industry in Rwanda.
 
Any potential environmental and social impacts associated with sector specific investment operations in 
complement to PRSG III support (e.g., in water, energy, and transport) will be addressed in the context 
of ongoing and planned environmental and social analysis undertaken as part of preparation for those 
operations.  
 
8. Contact Point 
Agnès L. Soucat, Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-4027 
Email: asoucat@worldbank.org 
9.  For more information contact:  
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop) 
 
the law. In that context, the GoR has made it clear to donors that it will not accept funding that will directly or indirectly encourage 
Rwandans to identify themselves along ethnic lines. 
 
Page  6
