Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.: AB2453   
Project Name 
Rwanda Third Poverty Reduction Support Grant (PRSG III) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Health; General Education Sector; Water Supply; Power 
Project ID 
P098129 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA  
Implementing Agency 
GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA 
Date PID Prepared 
June 6, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
Octobers 10 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 10, 2006  
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Rwanda is a small, landlocked country in Sub-Saharan Africa with a population of approximately 8.2 
million and per capita GDP of approximately US$230. Around 60 percent of the population is estimated 
to be poor, while around 85 percent of the population lives in rural areas. Population density, at about 340 
inhabitants per square kilometer, is one of the highest in the world.  In 2005, agriculture accounted for 
about 43 percent of GDP, services for about 38 percent (consisting mainly of wholesale and resale trade 
in various products, transportation, and public administration) and industry for about 19 percent (of which 
manufacturing accounts for 9 percent and construction 10 percent). 
 
While much remains to be done, Rwanda has made a remarkable transition from reconstruction to 
development in the 12 years since the 1994 genocide, which
 decimated Rwanda’s fragile economic base, 
severely impoverished the population (particularly women), and eroded the country’s ability to attract 
private sector investment. As a result of extensive economic and governance reform measures taken 
between 1995 and 2005, GDP growth rates averaged 7.4 percent per annum. During reconstruction, the 
Government of Rwanda (GoR) focused on rebuilding
 
institutions and improving social indicators, which 
led to significant improvements in education and health outcomes. While continuing to pursue this 
agenda, the GoR is now strongly focused on growth in an attempt to maintain the high growth rates of the 
1990s. However, implementation of the GoR’s growth agenda is likely to depend on significant levels of 
external assistance for some time to come, even in light of recent agreements on debt forgiveness. 
 
Ensuring that Rwanda remains on a path of economic and social progress is key to sustaining 
achievements since the genocide and contributing to the stability of the Great Lakes region.  Rwanda will 
continue to require substantial external assistance to maintain the transition from conflict to peace and 
development and its ability to continue to implement and update its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper 
(PRSP).  The Bank’s Poverty Reduction Support Credit/Grant (PRSC/G) series has been supporting the 
GoR’s reform program, including achievements in good governance made by Rwanda since 1994. Grant 
financing is essential for Rwanda to sustain its economic and social recovery and develop its economy, 
including expanding exports to address debt sustainability and reduce dependence on foreign aid. 
 
Building on achievements under PRSC/G I and PRSG II, the proposed PRSG III would continue to 
support the GoR as it implements the next steps in its reform program which, with the effectiveness of a 
territorial reform law in January 2006, is now being undertaken in the context of enhanced 
Page  2
decentralization. Given the PRSC/G focus on decentralized service delivery, PRSG III support 
complements this phase of the GoR’s decentralization program. 
 
2. 
 
Proposed objective(s) 
PRSG III is designed to build upon progress made under PRSC/G I and PRSG II.  The PRSG series will 
continue assistance to the GoR toward achievement of the goals outlined in its July 2002 PRSP, which 
focuses on (a) creating a favorable private sector investment climate to promote macroeconomic stability 
and sustained economic growth; (b) improving quality, coverage, and equity of basic service delivery 
through improved expenditure efficiency; and (c) supporting overall improvement of  public expenditure 
management and governance, with an emphasis on transparency and accountability to citizens’ voice and 
participation.  The operation would also help to contribute to progress toward achievement of Millennium 
Development Goals related to PRSP objectives. Over 2006, the GoR is working to update its PRSP. The 
Economic and Poverty Reduction Strategy (EDPRS) is expected to build on the first PRSP and provide 
the framework for a planned second series of PRSC/G support over 2007-2009. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
Within the above context, PRSG III is expected to help the GoR (a) maintain a stable macroeconomic 
framework, creating a strong basis for private sector-led economic growth, driven by agricultural 
transformation, promotion of exports, deepening of the financial sector, and introduction of information 
communications technology; (b) strengthen further the linkages between strategic planning, its Medium-
Term Expenditure Framework, and budgeting, deepening the focus on service delivery in education, 
health, water, and energy; and (c) continue improving governance and transparency through further 
reforms to the fiduciary framework and greater empowerment of local communities (particularly with 
enhanced decentralization). Given the important linkages to the growth agenda, including agricultural 
transformation and export promotion, the policy dialogue in the transport sector included under PRSG II 
continues while, at the GoR’s request, dialogue on social protection has been added under PRSG III. 
 
4.    
Environmental and Social Aspects
 
This operation is governed by Operational Policy (OP) 8.60, 
Development Policy Lending
,
and therefore 
is not subject to OP 4.01, 
Environmental Assessment
.
However, PRSC I was governed by Operational 
Directive 8.60, 
Adjustment Lending Policy,
 deemed a sector adjustment operation, subject to OP 4.01,
 
and 
classified category B for purposes of environmental assessment. As such, extensive Environmental 
Assessment and Social Analysis was undertaken during the preparation of PRSC I to identify possible 
positive and negative linkages between PRSC/G support and environmental and social impacts, including 
examining the Bank’s safeguards definition of social impacts in regard to involuntary resettlement, 
indigenous peoples, and cultural property.
1
It also took into account the widespread environmental and 
social analysis undertaken for other Bank operations in Rwanda. While PRSC/G support is not expected 
to have any direct negative environmental or social impacts, the assessment discussed the environmental 
and social issues facing Rwanda and the capacity of national and local public sector agencies’ roles and 
responsibilities to manage them. 
 
1
Note that in context of Rwanda’s history, particularly in the aftermath of the 1994 genocide, the term ‘indigenous peoples’ is 
extremely ambiguous as it implies that some ethnic groups were established in Rwanda before others. The basis of this 
assumption was widely used to justify the genocide and is therefore extremely sensitive.  The GoR’s current policy, as part of 
the national unity and reconciliation process, is based on equal rights for all without distinguishing between ethnic or regional 
affiliations in the country.  The new Constitution states that all persons are equal before the law and shall enjoy, without any 
discrimination, equal protection of the law. In that context, the GoR has made it clear to donors that it will not accept funding 
that will directly or indirectly encourage Rwandans to identify themselves along ethnic lines. 
 
Page  3
PRSG IIII continues to draw on the Environmental Assessment and Social Analysis undertaken for PRSC 
I
to help the GoR establish the regulatory, administrative, and technical capacity to identify, mitigate, and 
monitor environmental and social issues in a sustainable manner.  PRSG III would continue to support the 
GoR’s capacity building of its Rwanda Environment Management Authority (REMA), which was newly 
established under PRSC I, to implement the new Environment Law and complete guidelines on 
environmental impact assessments. Budget has been allocated for REMA’s management in 2005 and 
2006. Any potential environmental and social impacts associated with sector specific investment 
operations in complement to PRSG III support (e.g., in water, energy, and transport) will be addressed in 
the context of ongoing and planned environmental and social analysis undertaken as part of preparation 
for those operations. Poverty and Social Impact Analysis has been undertaken in the tea sector and on the 
use of fertilizer, both of which are relevant to reducing poverty in rural areas. Also, in 2004, the President 
fulfilled his promise to appoint a representative of the Batwa to the Senate.  
 
An interesting social aspect in Rwanda regards gender, notably the role of women in the development 
process. Traditionally, women in Rwanda focused on agricultural activities at home, while men 
dominated the public sphere.  However, the genocide affected a shift in attitudes toward gender roles 
since women constituted approximately 70 percent of the population after the genocide. They were seen 
as critical to reconciliation, unity, and the governing of the country, since female perpetrators of the 
genocide were limited. The 2003 Constitution establishes that 30 percent of posts in decision-making 
organizations be filled by women and that 30 percent of the seats in each house of Parliament be occupied 
by women. Following the 2003 election, women account for 49 percent of the seats in Parliament, the 
highest level of female parliamentary representation in the world. The National Women’s Council, also 
enshrined in the Constitution and working under the leadership of the Ministry of Gender and Family 
Promotion, was originally created in 1996 to engender change in girls’ education, reproductive health, 
poverty reduction, and civic and legal issues. Women identify policy and budget priorities at the local 
level and voice them up through the channels of government. The proposed PRSG III would continue to 
support the GoR’s efforts in this area.. 
 
5.    
Administration of Operation 
 
A
single-tranche grant would be made available upon effectiveness. The proposed grant will follow the 
Bank’s disbursement procedures for development policy operations. Grant proceeds will be disbursed 
against satisfactory implementation of the development policy program and not tied to any specific 
purchases or be subject to procurement requirements. Once the grant is approved by the Board and 
becomes effective, the proceeds of the grant will be disbursed in compliance with the stipulated single 
tranche release conditions. Once the Bank’s Board approves the grant and at the request of the Recipient, 
IDA will disburse the proceeds of the grant into an account designated by the Recipient that forms a part 
of the country foreign exchange reserves account at the Banque Nationale du Rwanda (BNR). The 
Recipient shall ensure that upon the deposit of the grant into said account, an equivalent amount is 
credited in the Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to IDA. The Recipient 
will report to IDA on the amounts deposited in the foreign currency account and credited in local 
currency to the budget management system. If the proceeds of grant are used for ineligible purposes, as 
defined in the Development Grant Agreement, IDA will require the Recipient to promptly upon notice 
from IDA, refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment to IDA. Amounts refunded to IDA 
upon such request shall be cancelled. The administration of this grant will be the responsibility of the 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MINECOFIN).  
 
6. 
 
Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
MINECOFIN is responsible for implementing the proposed PRSG III and for coordinating the completion 
of actions. MINECOFIN’s Development Planning Unit is responsible for overall monitoring of the GoR’s 
Page  4
poverty reduction programs and the Bank will continue to work closely with this unit and with the GoR in 
general on the implementation of its monitoring and evaluation framework. MINECOFIN also relies on 
its Budget Monitoring and Reporting Team, which is responsible for ensuring that component sector 
spending plans developed with PRSG support are incorporated into the national MTEF and subsequent 
budget, to work with the Bank to track progress on the implementation of PRSG III. A set of monitoring 
indicators for Rwanda’s PRSP, which will also be the basis for monitoring and evaluating progress on the 
implementation of PRSG III, has been developed and will be used to evaluate achievements under the 
PRSG program. 
 
7. 
 
Benefits 
 
PRGS III would continue support for the implementation of the GoR’s first PRSP, which was prepared in 
a
participatory manner and which has strong country ownership.  The proposed PRSG III also supports 
the GoR’s decentralization program, which was accelerated in 2006 with the swift passage and 
implementation of a territorial reform law.  Within the enhanced decentralization framework, benefits of 
PRSG III would continue to accrue to the population overall, with a particular focus on poor people in 
rural and urban areas. Particularly in the context of enhanced decentralization, the proposed PRSG III 
focuses on the ability of the central government to enable local government to improve delivery and 
increase equitable access to basic services and infrastructure (health, education, water, energy, transport). 
To this end, PRSG III builds upon successes under PRSC/G I and PRSG II, particularly the transfer of 
capitation grants in education and performance-based contracting of high-impact health services via local 
health centers. The objective remains to improve human development outcomes and achieve Millennium 
Development Goals. PRSG III preparation capitalizes on the much improved, fully government-led donor 
coordination, a direct result of the budget support program in Rwanda. 
 
8. 
 
Risks and Risk Mitigation 
 
Though international and regional efforts to mitigate instability continue, the risk of flare ups in the 
eastern Congo is not negligible. The Bank supports efforts aimed at fostering peace and security between 
Rwanda and its neighbors. Reports exist of tensions around the Gacaca (community-based genocide 
trials) process and limits on the freedom of political opposition and the media (particularly given its role 
in the genocide) due to the GoR’s concerns of a return of ethnic division.  However, internally Rwanda’s 
security and political situation remains stable.  Predictability of donor financing, particularly the ability to 
mobilize grant financing, and debt sustainability remain issues, though alignment of donor disbursements 
with the GoR’s budget cycle has improved. Risks associated with weaknesses in the country’s fiduciary 
framework, particularly at decentralized levels, is a concern. The rapid decentralization undertaken by the 
GoR has heightened potential procurement and public financial management risks since only limited 
accompanying fiduciary measures/instructions were included. However, the GoR has committed to 
accelerating its efforts to address these risks, for instance moving to draft an easy-reference guide for 
procurement, along with a technical assistance “hotline,” for procurement officers.  It is also accelerating 
the implementation of the Rwanda Expertise Scheme that is training accountants, to be deployed at 
decentralized levels, in the Rwanda public accounting system, and sponsoring of the best among them for 
professional accountancy qualification. 
 
9. Tentative financing 
 
The Bank will provide financing through a proposed grant of US$50 million. 
 
10.    Contact point: 
 
Page  5
Agnes L. B. Soucat 
Title: Lead Economist  
Tel: (202) 473-40 27 
Fax: (202) 473-8216 
Email: 
asoucat@worldbank.org
11. For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, D.C. 20433 
Telephone: (202) 458-5454 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
