Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11806-MAU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND
VOCATIONAL TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
June 4, 1993
Population and Human Resources
Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =       Ouguiya (UM)
US$1                  =       UM  105 (March 1993)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I m                           1.1 yd
1 km                  =      0.6 mi
1 m2                  =       1.2 sq yards
I km2                 =      0.38 sq mi
1 ha                  =       2.5 acres
ACRONYMS
AfDB      African Development Bank (Banque fricaine de Developpement)
BEP       Vocational Diploma (Brevt d'Enseignement Professionnet)
BT        Technician Diploma (Brevet de Technicien)
BTS       Higher Technician Diploma (Brevet de Technicien Superieur)
CAPET    Technical Training Certificate (Certificat d'Aptitude d'Enseignement Technique)
CEP       Professional College (College d'Enseignement Professionnel)
CET       Technical College (College d'Enseignement Technique)
CFPP      Vocational Training and Upgrading Center (Centre de Formation et Perfectionnement Professionnelle)
CFPR      Regional Vocational Training Center (Centre Regional de Formation Professionnelle)
CFPM      Maritime Training Center (Centre de Formation Professionnelle Maritime)
CGEM      Federation of Mauritanian Employers (Confiedration Gene6rale des Employeurs Mauritaniens)
CNFB      National Banking Training Center (Centre Nationale de Formation de la Profession Bancaire)
CNSS      National Social Security Fund (Caisse Nationale de Securite Sociale)
CRES      Resource and Monitoring Center (Centre de Ressources et de Suivi)
CSET      Center for Higher Technical Education (Centre Superieur d 'Enseignement Technique)
DET       Technical Education Department (Direction d'Enseignement Technique)
DFP       Vocational Training Department (Direction de Formation Professionnelle)
DFM       Maritime Training Department (Direction de Formation Maritime)
EDF       European Development Fund (Fonds European de Developpment)
ENEMP   National Maritime Training School (Ecole Nationale d 'Enseignement Maritime et de Peche)
ENFVA    National Agricultural Training and Extension School
(Ecole Nationale de Formation et Vulgarisation Agricole)
FAC       French Ministry of Cooperation (Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation)
FADES    Arab Economic and Social Development Fund (Fonds Arabe de Dgveloppement Economique et Social)
FIAP      Federation of Shipowners (Fiedration des Industries et Armement de Peche)
IDB       Islamic Development Bank (Banque Islamique de Developpement)
ILO       International Labor Office (Bureau International de Travail)
IMO       International Maritime Organization (Organization Maritime Internationale)
ISF       Institutional Support Fund (Fonds d'Appui des Projets)
LCEP      Secondary Professional School (Lycie/CoIkge d'Enseignement Professionnel)
LCo       Secondary Commercial School (Lyc&e Commnercial)
ONS       National Statistics Office (Office National de Statistiques)
PCR       Project Completion Report (Rapport d'Achavement du Projet)
PCU       Project Coordination Unit (Unite de Coordination du Projet)
SNIM      National Industrial and Mining Company (Societe Nationale Industrielle et Miniare)
SONELEC National Power and Water Company (Societe Nationale  'Eau et d 'Electricite>)
TEVT      Technical Education and Vocational Training
TSF       Training Support Fund (Fonds dt'Appui  l la Formation)
UNDP      United Nations Development Program (Programme des Nations Unies pour le Developpement)
UTM       National Workers Union (Union des Travailleurs Mauritaniens)



FOR OmICIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBUC OF MAURITANIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Ng
RDIT ANDPROJECT SUMMARY  ..................................    i
I. ITRODUCTION  .......................................................   1
II. SECTORAL CONTEXT   ........................................   1
A. Background  ............................................   I
B. Macro-Economic Context and Medium-Term Prospects .................   I
C. Labor Market ...........................................   2
1. Labor Demand by Sector ...............................   2
2. Labor Supply  ......................................   4
D. Technical Education and Vocational Training  ...................... .                    4
1. The Technical Education and Vocational Training System  ....           .......  4
2. Cost and Financing ....................................   6
3. Sector Development Issues ..............................   6
E. The Goverunent's Strategy for Technical Education and Vocational Training  ...  8
F. The Bank Group's Role .          ....................................   9
m. THE PROJECT  .............................................  10
A. Project Objectives, Scope and Description  .........................  10
1.   Maintain  the  Quality  and  Improve the Efficiency  of Technical
Education ......................................  11
2. Revitalize the Vocational Training System   ....................  15
3. Support Maritime Sector Training ..........................  17
4. Strengthen Sector Planning and Management Capacities .19
B. Project Cost and Financing Plan                ...............................  20
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ..................................  21
A. Status of Project Preparation and Readiness  ........................  21
B. Project Coordination and Management ............................ 21
C. Monitoring and Evaluation ...................................  22
D. Procurement and Disbursement ................................  22
E. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting .............................  25
V. PROJECT BENEFIfS AND RISKS ...............                             ..................  26
A. Benefits ............................................... 26
B. Risks .        ................................................  26
VI. AGREEMENTS TO0 BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ................................ 26
lbis report is based on the findings of a World  ank appisal mission consisting of Messrs. Rene Vaurs
(Sr. Economist), William Cooper (Technical Education Specialist), Slaheddine Ban-Halima (Opeations Offcer), and
Alaair Rodd (Project Assistant). The Peer Reviewe  a  Messrs. ArM! Van Adams and So Dahlborg. Ms. Kaeine
Marshall and Mr. Birger Prdriksen are the Deparment Director and the manging Division Chief, rpectively, for this
op0-on.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performrnce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Table 1: Employment by Sector Activity                                           3
Table 2: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements                           23
Table 3: Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit                          25
ANNEXES
1.   Basic Data
2.    Policy Letter
3.    Coordination Structure
4.    Technical Teacher Training Program
5.    Resource Center for Technical Education and Vocational Training
6.    Restructuring Program for Vocational Training
7.   Training Support Fund
8.    Maritime Sector Training Program and Construction of the Maritime Training School
9.    Terms of Reference of the Project Coordination Unit
10.   Recurrent Costs Financing
11.   Project Cost and Financing
12.   Project Monitoring and Supervision Plan, and Monitoring Indicators
13.   Procurement Arrangements
14.   Disbursement Profile
Documents on File
MaM: IBRD 24832



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of National Education, Ministry of Civil Service, Labor, Youth and
Sports, and Ministry of Fisheries and Maritime Economy
Credit Amount:      SDR 8.9 million (US$12.5 million)
Terms:              Standard, with 40 years maturity
Project Objectives    The Government of Mauritania is in the process of restructuring its education
and Description:    and training system to correct distortions in cost and resource allocation, and
to improve quality and relevance.   The ongoing Education Sector
Restructuring Project, jointly financed by IDA (Cr. 1943-MAU, SDR 13.2
million) and the AfDB (US$17.4 million, 1988) supports this initiative and
is successfully implementing restructuring measures in primary, secondary
and technical education.  However, attempts to correct deficiencies in
vocational training and make training programs more flexible and responsive
to labor market demands were largely unsuccessful. In technical education,
following the outflow of skilled foreign workers in the early 1990s and a
planned sharp reduction of French technical assistance serving as instructors,
qualitative and staffing problems require urgent attention.
The principal objectives of the proposed project are to help establish a
coherent system of technical education and vocational training (TEVT),
staffed largely by national instructors, efficient and of good quality, and
responsive to labor market demands. To this end, the project would support
a number of institutional measures to: (a) establish a common management
structure for the TEVT system; (b) increase the financial and operational
autonomy of TEVT institutions; and (c) promote the participation of
employers in operating and financing technical and vocational training.
Within this framework, the project would finance investments to:
1.    Maintain the Quality and improve the efficiency of technical
education by: (i) creating a resource center for technical education
and vocational training to provide professional support to training
institutions and staff; (ii) establishing a capacity for technical teacher
training in order to fill current vacancies and replace departing
foreigners; (iii) setting up a support fund to finance training
initiatives developed by and for training institutions; and (iv)
constructing a workshop for agricultural mechanics training.
2.    Revitalize the vocational training system by: (i) implementing a
restructuring program for the national vocational training center; and
(ii) establishing a support fund to finance training activities initiated



ii
by and for micro-enterprises, informal sector workers and
apprentices.
3.    Suort maritime sector training by: (i) constructing new facilities
for the National Maritime Training School; and (ii) supporting
program development and staff training for the maritime sector.
4.    Strengthen sector planning and management by: (i) strengthening the
planning and programming capacities of the ministries responsible
for technical education and vocational training; and (ii) supporting
project management and coordination.
Bemnelts            Improvements in the quality and relevance of technical education and
and Risks:          vocational training are expected from the creation of the resource center and
the two support funds which would benefit all training institutions country-
wide. Other mutually reinforcing quality improvement measures, in the form
of well-trained instructors, good pedagogical back-stopping, adequate training
facilities, and improved management would enhance internal efficiency and
reduce wastage. The impact of these measures would be felt in: (a)
increased relevance of training programs to labor market demand, as training
would shift from a supply-driven to a more flexible, demand-driven system
where employers increasingly participate in the development, operation and
financing of the training programs; (b) improved labor productivity as
students would receive better-quality, more relevant training; and (c)
enhanced financial sustainability of the training system through the transfer
of responsibility for financing the cost of vocational and maritime training to
the private sector, resulting in (i) an increase of its share of TEVT recurrent
cost financing from 9% in 1992 to 25% in 1997, and (ii) a 13-percent
increase in real terms in recurrent expenditure financing for TEVT on
general fiscal revenues over the same period.
There are two main risks. EiM, the economy may not be able to generate
enough employment to absorb all graduates from the training system. This
risk would be addressed by: (a) increasing managerial and financial
autonomy of training institutions allowing them to better integrate training
with employment and hence encouraging the placement of graduates in jobs;
and (b) establishing an employment monitoring system, that would allow
continual and careful adjustment of the development and output of the
training system to estimated labor market demands. Secon, the training
system may not be able to respond adequately to labor demands. This risk
would be reduced by increasing the participation of employers in the design,
development, delivery and financing of training programs, and through
employer representation on the governing boards of training institutions.
Environmental       No environmental risks are foreseen. The only major construction (Maritime
Risks               Training School in Nouadhibou) would respect national environmental laws,
would be built on Goverment land and would not displace anyone.
Eoonomic tRate      Not applicable.
of Rob"



iii
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(Net of Taxes and Duties)
L l       Forein        TOTAL
(USS$ million3 -
1. Maintain Quality and Improve Efficiency          1.4       4.6           6.0
of Technical Education
2. Revitalize the Vocational Training System        0.3        1.2           1.5
3. Support Maritime Sector Training                 0.7       4.3           5.0
4. Strengthen Sector Planning and Management        0.        LQ            Li
Total Base Costs                                 3.1       11.1          14.2
Physical Contingencies                           0.1        0.7           0.8
Price Contingencies                              Qj         °             IA
TOTAL PROJECT COm                                3.7       12.7          16.4
FINANCING PLAN
(in US$ million)
IDA                                                                      12.5
France (FAC)                                                              2.2
Government                                                                ii
TOTAL                                                                    16.4
Estimated Credit Disbursements
(in US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year
194        1995       12           
Annual                          1.3        3.2        4.2       2.8        1.0
Cumulative                      1.3        4.5        8.7       11.5     12.5






ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1         The Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania has requested IDA's assistance
in financing a project designed to help implement its development plans for technical education and
vocational training. The principal objectives of the proposed project are to help establish a coherent,
unified system of technical education and vocational training, largely staffed with national instructors,
efficient and of good quality, and responsive to labor market demands.
1.2         The project would be IDA's fourth education project in Mauritania. The policy measures
and associated investment program were developed through dialogue with the Mauritanian authorities
based on pre-investment studies conducted under the ongoing Education Sector Restructuring Project
(Credit 1943-MAU, effective since April 1989), and extensive discussions with Government and donors
during supervision of the ongoing project and preparation of this proposed project.
1.3          Total project costs are estimated at about US$16.4 million equivalent, net of taxes and
duties, of which IDA would finance about US$12.5 million. The French Government (FAC) would
finance about US$2.2 million equivalent. The Government of Mauritania would contribute about US$1.7
million equivalent.
S. SECTORAL CONTEXI
A. Background
2.1          Virtually all of Mauritania's 1.0 million square kilometers is desert, providing a limited
resource base for about 2.0 million inhabitants (up from 1.3 million in 1977). Income per capita is
US$500 (1991), placing Mauritania among the low-income economies. Its population is growing at about
2.9% per year. The majority of the population has extremely low standards of living: life expectancy
at birth is 47 years, under-five mortality is about 200 per thousand, and less than 30% of the population
is literate in either Arabic or French. Forty-four percent of the population is under the age of 15.
Periodic drought and worsening economic conditions have accelerated a sedentarization process: the
nomadic population fell from 73% in 1965 to 12% in 1988, and urban areas now represent nearly 50%
of the population, the highest level of urbanization in the Sahel. Key industrial sectors are fishing and
mining. Agriculture remains the largest employer (50% of the employed work-force), while the informal
sector, growing at about 7% a year, absorbs the largest number of new entrants to the labor market.
Anmx I provides social data.
B. Macro-Economic Context and Mediun-Term Prospects
2.2          Economic Restructuring in the 1980s. Mauritania's economic development through the
mid-1980s was marked by interventionist Government policies and financial imbalances. Economic
growth averaged only 2% and domestic savings financed only one-third of investment, with the
subsequent effect that external financing increased. Increased indebtedness, combined with drought and
unfavorable terms of trade for primary exports (mineral ores), accelerated an economic crisis, which in
turn precipitated a change in Government. In 1985, the new Government adopted and pursued a
comprehensive Economic and Financial Recovery Program, followed in 1989 by a Consolidation and



2
Strengthening Program. A significant shift towards market-based mechanisms, liberalization of price
controls, and abolition of import licenses and quotas, coupled with favorable weather conditions and
rising iron ore prices, contributed to an annual 3.4% GDP growth from 1985 to 1989. Strict budgetary
discipline, cuts in public investments and a freeze on civil service hiring contributed to this improved
performance.
2.3          Economic Difficulties in the 1990s. At the start of the 1990s, Mauritania experienced
external and internal shocks, including a decline in world iron ore prices and a severe drought which
increased the precariousness of its economic development. Deteriorating relations with Senegal led to
an influx of repatriated Mauritanians (180,000) and a significant outflow of skilled foreign (mainly
Senegalese) workers. This upheaval exacerbated urban problems, especially unemployment, and caused
an imbalance in the labor market. Foreign aid was reduced because of Mauritania's political stance
during the 1992 Gulf war. These external factors were aggravated by institutional deficiencies in the
agricultural and fishing sectors that reduced GNP growth to -1.9% in 1990 and an average 0.4% in the
following two years. In an attempt to enhance competitiveness and expand the country's export base, the
Government devalued the Ouguiya by 27% in terms of US dollars in October 1992. This exchange rate
adjustment is being supported by restrictive fiscal and monetary policies. The IMF and IDA have, as
a result, proceeded with structural adjustment support.
2.4          Medium and LonTem  Propet. Economic growth continues to be constrained by an
inelastic revenue base, a heavy debt service burden, continued vulnerability to exogenous factors
(commodity prices and drought), a fragile natural resource environment and a limited human capital
resource base. However, the Government is committed to pursuing its adjustment program. This will
involve continued focus on strengthening public resource management, providing an enabling environment
for private sector investment and growth, and accelerating the development of human resources. The
Government will seek to promote key social programs such as those targeted at the promotion of women
or prevention of AIDS, and continue to introduce environmental action programs.  Despite its
susceptibility to external shocks, the economy is expected to grow at about 3% per annum (see Country
Assistance Strategy, discussed at a Board meeting in February 1993 in conjunction with the presentation
of the Construction Capacity and Employment Project), with agriculture, construction and the informal
sector the most likely contributors to growth.
C. Labor Market
1. Labor Demand by Sector
2.5          Ile Prima  Sector. Agriculture, livestock, fishing and other primary sector activities
contribute nearly 25% of GNP and employ 240,000 people (52% of the working population).
Employment growth in the aricultr sector has slowed down to about 1.5% per year, mainly due to
prolonged droughts and migration. As a result, the Government has encouraged the transition from dry-
land farming to more intensive crop cultivation through the construction of barrages, the continued
drilling of wells, and the extension of irrigation in the Senegal river valley. With expansion of intensive
agriculture at the current rate, the demand for skilled workers to maintain the mechanical infrastructure
is, by some estimates, expected to create as many as 1,500 jobs over the next 5 to 7 years. The
commercial fishing sector contributes about 50% of the country's export earnings and 28% of government
revenue (1990), but employs only about 9,000 people (2% of working population). With appropriate
investments and improved resource management, commercial fishing is expected to remain a major
contributor to the economy, requiring skills in three areas: (i) new crew for the domestic fleet; (ii) fleet



3
support services such as ship repair,
fbr  which  little  local  expertise           Table 1: EmDlovment by Sector of ActivitY /I
exists'; and (iii) demand in related
areas such as fish processing.                                              Labor Force
No. of      % of Active
2.6            The   Secondary                                        Workers         frmiaaio
Seto.    This  sector,  including       1. Prim=ry
mining,   manufacturing   and              Agriculture/Livestock      230,000         39.0
construction, employs about 29,000      2 ishing                        9,000          I.S
(5%  of the active population) and is      Mig                          8,000          1.3
the traditional employer of graduates      Minufacturny                 9,000          1.5
from the technical education system.       Confruction                 12,000         2.0
Nearly a quarter of workers (23%) in    3. Tortiaa
this sector possess  a  recognized         Transportation               9,500          1.6
technical qualification (CAPET  or         Utilities                    1,500         0.2
BEP). While employment propects            Banking                      1,500         0.2
for technical graduates are limited by     Government                  17,500          3.0
the current slow growth in this sector,    Trade & Services            120,000        20.0
the proposed project for private sector    Domestic Help               40.            _.
development (FY94)  should  help
stimulate employment creation. The          Total Employed            458,000        78.0
construction industry employs about
12,000 people, mostly unskilled or         Active Population          S88.          100.0
semi-skilled.   Only 6%  of those
employed  in  this  industry  have      a   9M mision estimates.
appropriate technical qualifications.
The demand for skilled construction
workers is expected to increase as a result of the recent exodus of Senegalese workers and an anticipated
upturn in the domestic construction industry, which will be stimulated by the recently approved project
for construction capacity and employment (Cr.2455-MAU).
2.7           The Tertiay Sector. The Government employs about 17,500 people and was, until 1988,
a principal source of employment for technical education and university graduates. The budgetary freeze
and the privatization of many previously nationalized industries have restricted new civil service
employment offers for both University2 and technical education graduates. However, the financial
sector, including banking and insurance, would under the impetus of a proposed Financial Sector
Restructuring program, create a demand for workers with office management and computer processing
skills. Trade and services employ over a quarter of the working population; 97% of this employment
is in the informal sector.
2.8            The Informal Sector. Recent estimates suggest that the informal sector contributes at least
10% of GNP, provides employment for about one-third of the working population (150,000), and is likely
to remain a consistent refuge for entrants to the labor market. The informal sector is anticipated to
Ship repair relme heavily on impoted its, uch a specalized equipment, operating aerials, sm
pants and fuel. LAck of acces to foreign exchange futher discoursges use of local facilies.
2  Betwees 1989 and 1991, the Government offerod positions for 142 lawyers and 92 economist. The University
of Mauritania graduated 1,451 students in economics and law during that time.



4
continue growing at its current rate of about 7% per year. About 85% of small businesses are oriented
toward petty commerce (selling food, clothes) and services (laundry, restaurants). Only 10% are in
construction and about 4% engage in light manufacturing. The fastest growing areas of employment are
said to be in commerce and services (18% and 16% annual growth, respectively, from 1977 to 1988)
which could benefit from training in bookkeeping, management and marketing. A survey of the
Nouakchott informal sector suggests that there is demand for skill development in certain areas, but that,
given the small number of people required in each area, training programs need to be flexible to meet
changing demands.
2. Labor Supply
2.9          An estimated 44,000 youth enter the labor market annually. Of these, about 35,000 have
partly or fully completed the primary education cycle, about 4,000 the first cycle of general secondary
education (college), about 2,000 the general secondary cycle (lycee), and about 2,500 the tertiary cycle
(including students returning from overseas). A further 500 leavers from the technical education schools
enter the labor market, of whom 300 are considered qualified technicians or skilled workers. Women
are increasingly swelling the ranks of entrants to the labor market. The activity rate for women has risen
from 17% in 1977 to 27% in 1988 with about 8,000 women entering the work-force in that year. As
population grows and more women join the labor market, labor supply is likely to increase especially in
Nouakchott and the regional capitals (about 9% per year).
2.10         There are two imbalances in the labor market.  First, insufficient employment
opportunities are being generated to meet the supply of labor. Unemployment has increased from an
estimated 9% in 1977 to 22% (130,000) in 1992. In 1992, almost all of the unemployed (95%) had
never held a job, indicating a high level of youth unemployment, and 43% were women (i.e. women's
unemployment rate is 33%) suggesting that women deciding to enter the labor market are not finding
work. Unemployment in urban areas is around 27%. The majority of new labor market entrants find
employment in the agricultural and informal sectors, or are under-employed. Second, entrants to the
labor market do not possess skills that are demanded in those opportunities that are available. Although
in absolute numbers most unemployed are illiterate, the unemployment rate is similar across educational
attaiment levels, with 18% of primary school leavers and 19% of secondary school graduates
unemployed. Similarly, technical school graduates have had difficulty finding employment.3 The skill-
demand mismatch is evidenced in modern agriculture, the construction industry, and the service sector.
D. Technical Education and Vocational Training
1. The Technical Education and Vocational Training System
2.11         For the purposes of this proposed project, the term "Technical Education and Vocational
Training (TEVT) system" includes technical education, vocational training, and maritime sector training.
Technical Education is under the responsibility of the Department of Technical Education (DET) of the
Ministry of National Education. The system consists of three institutions that provide technical education
at the secondary level: a 'College d'Enseignement Professionnel" (CEP) in Nouadhibou, a 'Lyc6e et
College d'Enseignement Professionnel" (LCEP) and a "Lycee Commercial" (LCo), both in Nouakchott,
which train qualified workers and technicians in two-year and four-year programs, respectively. A
"Centre Superieur d'Enseignement Technique" (CSET) in Nouakchott provides tertiary technical
An ongoing twcer Mudy, mppozted under Cr. 1943-MAU, will quantity the magnitude of grduate
unemployment by kill and couw.



5
education and has recently begun to train technical teachers for colleges and lycees. A fifth institution,
the 'Colege d'Enseignement Technique' (CET) for agricultural technicians located in Boghe, established
under the ongoing education project, is expected to be opened in 1995. Total enrollment capacity of these
institutions is currently about 1,180 students, and their annual output is about 500 graduates (400 from
two-year courses). There are 150 teachers, of whom 100 are technical.
2.12         Vocational trainin is under the responsibility of the Department of Vocational Training
(DFP) in the Ministry of Civil Service, Labor, Youth and Sports. The system consists of a national
vocational training center ("Centre de Formation et de Perfectionnement Professionnel", CFPP) in
Nouakchott and four newly-created (but not yet operational) regional centers ("Centre de Formation
Professionnel Regional', CFPR) located in Selibaby, Rosso, Kiffa and Atar. The CFPP has been
supported under three previous IDA-supported education projects, but has suffered from poor
management and limited funding. Although the CFPP's 1991/92 enrollment was only 133 students (in
full-time pre-employment courses), it has the capacity to train from 500 to 700 workers annually, in
short-duration skills upgrading courses. The regional centers, equipped but not yet staffed, are designed
to accommodate about 50 trainees each and, depending on the type of courses offered (full-time vs. short-
term), could increase the total throughput of the TEVT system to some 1,000 trainees per annum.
2.13         Maritime Training is under the responsibility of the Department for Maritime Training
(DFM) in the Ministry of Fisheries and Maritime Economy. Maritime training is conducted by the
National Maritime Training School (ENEMP), which provides four levels of training from ordinary
seamen and mechanics to deck and engineer officers for fleet vessels. ENEMP has, in its current
temporary facilities, a training capacity of about 145 full-time students, with 90 places allocated to train
ordinary seamen and mechanics. To improve on-board competencies, the school operates a training
fishing vessel, financed under the ongoing education project.
2.14         Several technical Ministries, public enterprises and some private sector establishments
offer sector-specific training  rrams. They include: (i) a vocational training center (to be opened in
1994), for graduates of the Mahadras (traditional religious schools), with a training capacity of about 100
full-time trainees in four basic vocational trades; (ii) an agricultural school (ENFVA) in Kaedi with an
enrollment capacity of about 130 students in two- and three-year programs in agricultural extension work;
(iii) a proprietary training center operated by the public utility corporation (SONELEC) for its own staff
needs, with a capacity of 50 to 60 trainees; (iv) a training center operated by the national mining company
(SNIM) for training in mining-related occupations; (v) a privately-operated training center for the banking
sector (CNFB) which uses the facilities of the CFPP for tertiary-sector training programs; and (vi) about
four small proprietary establishments with places for about 200 students in basic secretarial, computer
and bookkeeping courses.
2.15         In addition, there are 20 centers for women promotion (one in each region) under the
responsibility of the Ministry in charge of women promotion ("Secretariat d'Etat de la Promotion de la
Femme"). These centers coordinate training and employment activities for cooperatives, involving nearly
2,000 women, and offer support in small-scale business development, literacy training, courses in
traditional handicrafts, and simple bookkeeping and management skills. Each center is staffed by a
manager and four to five (volunteer) instructors. The Government currently pays the salaries of the
managers and operating costs totalling UM 8 million. Poorly trained staff and inadequately prepared
programs contribute to making these centers ineffective. They will be supported under the ongoing
Population and Health Project (Cr.231 1-MAU) that also provides funding for strengthening the central
administration (including the elaboration of a strategy for promoting women) and supporting cooperative-
owned micro-enterprises.



6
2. Cost and Financing
2.16          Total recurrent expenditures for technical education have risen from UM 94 million in
1989 to UM 167.2 million in 1992. Of this, the recurrent budget of the 'colleges' and lIycees' was UM
106.3 million, that of CSET UM 36.9 million, and that of DET UM 24.5 million. On average, salaries
represent 55% of recurrent expenditures, scholarships 22% and operating costs 23%. For vocational
training, total recurrent expenditures for 1992 were UM 33.8 million, with the CFPP receiving UM 23.6
million and DFP receiving UM 10.2 million. Salaries represented 77% of expenditures, scholarships 7%,
and operating costs the remaining 16%. For the maritime training sector, recurrent expenditures for
ENEMP increased from UM 23.6 million in 1989 to UM 87.6 million in 1992, as a result of new courses
offered and the use of the training vessel. Total recurrent expenditures for TEVT in 1992 were UM
288.6 million (Annex 1, page 3). These figures do not, however, include externally-financed teachers
and professional support staff for the sector.4
2.17          These recurrent expenditures are financed from four sources: (a) direct private sector
contributions, which currently represent an annual contribution to the CFPP from the Mauritanian
Employers Federation (CGEM) of UM 1.5 million, and a supplement to the CFPP of UM 1.5 million
from the National Social Security Fund (CNSS); (b) indirect employer contributions in the form of a
training tax of 0.6% levied on the salaries of employees of industrial production firms. The proceeds of
this tax, (UM 23 million in FY92, against a possible revenue estimated at UM 45 million), is deposited
into the Government's central accounts. Another tax, to fund equipment and operating costs of ENEMP,
is imposed on the salaries of foreign sailors living in Mauritania. Resources from this tax are currently
negligible; (c) donor support to operating costs, up to now represented solely by IDA support for
ENEMP, equivalent to UM 33 million in 1992; and (d) general fiscal revenues that contribute the
difference (UM 229.6 million). No user fees are charged at any institution.
3. Sector Development Issues
a. Uncertain Employment Prospects
2.18          Traditional sources of demand for technical education graduates are uncertain (paras 2.5-
2.8). Employment demand from the mining sector is predicted to remain stable and technical skills would
be met by SNIM's training center and the CSET. Implementation of the Government's strategy to
improve management of the fish resources, rehabilitate the fishing fleet and develop hiring incentives for
foreign and national vessels fishing Mauritanian waters would generate employment for the output from
ENEMP. Some opportunities are expected to develop in the tertiary sector, particularly in banking and
insurance where a rehabilitation program would generate demand for office skills, and in the secondary
sector where increased activity in the construction sector would generate a demand for supervisors and
skilled workers. New farming techniques in the Senegal valley would generate a demand for maintenance
technicians in agricultural machinery and irrigation systems. The informal sector is expected to be a
major source of employment growth for the years ahead.
4/ Fance is by far the lreat provider of technical asince in the education and training sector. In 1992,
Frnce provided 51 technical teachers ud advisers to technical education, at an ctimta cowt of UM 400
million equivalent. Thin is expected to decrea to 25 technical aiAnnce staff in 1997, at an catimated
cot of UM 160 million equivaleat.



7
b. Unresponsive Training System
2.19         The difficulty of uncertain employment prospects is compounded by an unresponsive
training system. First, the content of technical education programs is poorly adapted to the needs of
emerging sectors, and provides too many specializations. Second, employers are not encouraged to
participate in the development of programs, and vocational training programs do not focus on upgrading
skills of the modern or informal sector. Finally, the sector has made insufficient use of apprenticeships
to address youth unemployment and has yet to meet the demands of an increasing number of women
entering the labor market (para 2.9).
2.20         Inappropriate Program Content. Limited contact with employers, a lack of business
experience and poor teaching materials have encouraged instructors to teach to examinations rather than
job requirements. In technical education, there is a need to continue the restructuring reforms started
under the ongoing education project that improved the ratio between practical work and theoretical
studies. At the same time, the number of courses offered needs to be reduced and the quality of content
and delivery improved. The challenge for vocational training, and especially the CFPP, is to develop
a system that offers, with employer input, on-demand, short-duration, job-specific training programs for
employed workers, in the modern and informal sectors. The regional centers need to concentrate on
developing courses targeted toward micro-enterprises and the rural sector, which will provide their most
likely client base.
2.21         Limited EmDloyer Particination. Employers have lost confidence in the ability of the
vocational training system to produce and upgrade skilled workers with the right profile. This is best
reflected by the decline in the employers' share of direct recurrent budget financing of the CFPP, from
17% in 1985 to less than 2% in 1992. Employers' lack of confidence can be attributed to: (i) insufficient
participation in the design, content, accreditation, and evaluation of training programs; (ii) poor quality
program content; and (iii) poor teaching skills. To redress these issues, the governing boards of training
institutions should include employers to allow them to initiate change as opposed to criticizing the system
without acting.
2.22         The gpprenticeshiu system in Mauritania is not well developed because of the relative
immaturity of the informal sector. However, experience from other countries shows that modern sector
training institutions can collaborate with the informal sector by: (i) providing theoretical training to
support practical apprentice work, using a flexible schedule and organizing outreach programs to generate
demand; (ii) upgrade, retrain and introduce new technologies to apprentices and masters; and (iii) help
develop training materials that the masters can use to teach their apprentices. Similarly, flexible
approaches to training provision is required for female entrepreneurs who represent an increasingly large
proportion of the labor force but often have low levels of formal education and rigid time constraints.
Training demands for this target group would be identified under the ongoing population and health
project (para 2.15) and could be eligible for support under the proposed project.
c. Shortages of Instructional Staff
2.23         The TEVT system lacks qualified, experienced instructors. In technical educatio in 1992,
80 of the 150 teachers were either supplied by French technical assistance or foreign staff on local
contract (Annex 4. Over the next four years, the Government wants to reduce the number of local
contract teachers because of their high cost, and France has announced a planned withdrawal of its
technical assistance, creating a vacuum that needs to be filled by national instructors. Issues concem the
ability to find a sufficient number of qualified candidates, provide them with the necessary technical and
pedagogical skills to become good instructors, define their responsibility and status compared to other



8
teachers in the formal education system, and develop a remuneration schedule that reflects the more
complex non-teaching tasks (such as liaison with employers, and development of apprenticeship) expected
of them.
2.24          The extension of the vocational training network into one national and four regional
training centers requires the recruitment and training of additional instructors. Practical constraints to
satisfying this demand are that (i) the pool of eligible candidates is small, and (ii) the remuneration of
vocational instructors is not very attractive. Equally important is the need to continually provide skills
upgrading and professional support to the existing corps of instructors, upgrade their outdated teaching
skills, and enable them to respond to employers' demands for quality training. A capacity to provide in-
service training for instructors of vocational training should be developed.
d. Weak Supervisory Structure
2.25          The existing institutional structure lacks the capacity to supervise and support the
institutions and staff within the training system. Institutions do not report on the placement of graduates,
quality of programs or cost of course provision. There is very limited provision for staff training and
upgrading. The lack of supervision is compounded by weak links between the various units involved with
manpower development including the central statistical office (ONS) of the Ministry of Plan, planning
and training directorates within the technical ministries, training institutions and employers, resulting in
duplication of programs and unclear objectives. The system is in need of a structure that will provide
support in system management, supervision and evaluation, as well as professional staff support.
E. The Government's Strategy for Technical Education and Vocational Training
2.26          The Government's strategy for technical education and vocational training is based on the
adjustment program supported by the ongoing education project. Measures adopted under this project
focus on improving the internal and external efficiencies of secondary technical education and vocational
training institutions, and include the upgrading of entrance requirements to technical schools, the
restructuring of program content and the shortening of course duration, the introduction of new curricula,
the application of budgetary measures including the replacement of foreign teachers with nationals, and
increased participation of employers in the financing of technical and vocational education. Several
measures have been implemented successfully, particularly those dealing with restructuring which would
be continued and completed under the proposed project. Others, such as introducing increased financial
participation of employers in vocational training and maritime sector training programs, have only had
limited success; they would be emphasized in the proposed project.
2.27          For the next five years (1993-1998), the Government's priorities for technical education
and vocational training are spelled out in a 'Letter of Sector Development Policy" (Policy Letter),
attached as Annex 2. For technical education, the strategy aims to further strengthen knowledge of the
labor market and follow-up of graduates, improve the quality and relevance of training programs at all
levels, promote private sector contributions to training, improve efficiency and control costs, and provide
more effective quality control and more efficient management. For vocational trainini, the Government
intends to restore the quality of training, improve the system's responsiveness to labor market demand,
develop training support for the informal sector, and develop more effective ways to promote private
sector participation in operating and financing vocational training programs. For maritime training, the
focus would be on qualitative improvements to training programs and facilities, and on private sector
financing and monitoring of all maritime training programs.



9
F. The Bank Group's Role
2.28         The Bank Group has been involved in the education and training sectors in Mauritania
since 1975. The first two projects (Credits 459-MAU and 1214-MAU, both completed), supported
vocational training, teacher training, training for the fisheries sector, and manpower studies. The ongoing
education project supports the first phase of a long-term restructuring program, focusing on basic
education. The project also supports key restructuring measures in technical education and vocational
training (para 2.26), and is the first IDA operation to include policy measures to improve resource use
and stimulate private financing of education. During its implementation, the Bank continued its dialogue
on education policies and programs with the Government and worked closely with other donors to
coordinate activities.
2.29         From an operational perspective, the project completion report (PCR) for the first
education project reports serious implementation delays as a result of weak project management and
shortcomings in project preparation, which led to major revisions and the dropping of several
components. The PCR for the second project reports significant improvements in project management,
although one major component - the fisheries training school - was dropped for lack of donor financing
(it was to be financed by the European Development Fund, EDF). Implementation of the ongoing
education project is satisfactory, with an efficient project management team, and generally good
adherence to the sector adjustment program. In particular, restructuring measures in technical education
have been successfully implemented due to strong Government commitment. However, because of poor
management of the CFPP, insufficient Bank supervision and limited cooperation with employers, the
project's objectives to strengthen Mauritania's capacity to upgrade the vocational skills of its labor force
have not been attained. The management situation at the CFPP has improved with the recent appointment
of a new management team, and contacts with employers are slowly being re-established. Discussions
on the role of the private sector in the management and financing of maritime training also began under
the ongoing project but have yet to be consolidated and implemented. These efforts led to the decision
to prepare a separate operation in support of the TEVT system.
2.30         Rationale for IDA Involvement. The Country Assistance Strategy (para 2.4) recognizes
that human resource development and, especially, the type of technical and vocational training supported
through the proposed project, is a pre-requisite for achieving Mauritania's economic development
objectives. The Bank's policy work in the VET sector provides useful guidance for developing training
systems responsive to difficult economic and social conditions such as those prevailing in Mauritania,
whilst IDA's long-standing support for education and training in Mauritania places the Association in a
good position to promote cooperation between ministries, public and private sectors, and the donor
community.
2.31         Donor Assistance and Coordination. During the preparation of this project, IDA has been
careful to develop a program that coordinates and integrates the various donor contributions to the sector.
In technical education, France ("Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation", FAC) has the most active program
in terms of technical and financial input. In 1992-93, it supported 51 long-term technical assistants in
advisory, teacher training and teaching positions at a cost of approximately US$4.2 million. In addition,
it has provided investment financing of approximately US$1.2 million between 1990 and 1992 to support
the training of Mauritanians returning from Senegal.
2.32         Support for vocationaltraining is more diversified. Nevertheless, broad-based consensus
on the policy reform agenda has been agreed between the Government and donors. The Government of
Mauritania has recently signed an accord with the Saudi Fund to provide approximately US$0.25 million
(UM 27 million) between 1993 and 1994 to support the recurrent costs of the newly constructed regional



10
training centers. Over the same period, the salaries of 12 Tunisian technical specialists, who will assist
the CFPP and regional centers with the development of programs attractive to the informal and rural
sectors, will be paid by the "Fonds Arabe de Developpement Economique et Social' (FADES). In
addition to this support, two regional centers (Selibaby and Kiffa) are in the process of establishing ties
with local and international NGOs to provide them with training services. MDB also recently constructed
a training center for Mahadras school leavers, expected to open in late 1993. A UNDP/ILO-supported
project is expected to provide support to develop a labor market monitoring and information system to
ensure that the revised TVET programs are satisfying market demand. An institutional set-up will be
developed under this proposed project to coordinate all these institutions after 1995.
HI. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives, Scope and Description
3.1          Objectiva. The project would assist the Government in implementing its long-term
development strategy for establishing a coherent system of technical education and vocational training,
staffed largely by national instructors, efficient and of good quality, and responsive to labor market
demands. The Government's policies and programs are described in a Letter of Sector Development
Policy ("Lettre de strategie sectorielle"), accompanied by a four-year action plan with quantitative targets
for the 1994-97 period (Annex 2). Progress in achieving the project's objectives would be assessed
against monitoring indicators and annual targets (Annex 12, page 3), agreed upon with the Government
during negotiations. As a condition of Board presentation, the Government would adopt and submit to
IDA the Letter of Sector Development Policy, accompanied by an action plan and a set of monitoring
indicators, as agreed with IDA during negotiations.
3.2          Proj2q1cp. The project would provide broad-based support for technical education,
vocational training, and maritime sector training. Policy measures would focus on promoting the
complementarity and coherence of the TEVT institutions, and on improving the quality and relevance of
technical and vocational training. Investments would support the training and upgrading of instructors
and administrative staff of secondary technical schools and vocational training centers, and on
improvements to training facilities and programs. A proposed resource center for technical education and
vocational training (CRES) would provide an institutional linkage between the various technical and
vocational training programs and would support qualitative improvements to the system (para 3.8). Two
experimental training support funds would further support the qualitative objectives of the project. The
Institutional Support Fund (ISF) - to be financed by FAC - will fund quality improvements initiated and
developed by technical and vocational training institutions (para 3.18). The Traning Support Fund (TSF)
- to be financed by IDA - will fund training activities initiated by and supporting the training needs of
entrepreneurs and small business owners, mainly in the informal sector (para 3.28).
3.3          Policy and Institutional Measures.  The project would support three sets of policy
measures: (a) establish a common management structure for the TEVT system; (b) increase the
management and financial autonomy of TEVT institutions; and (c) promote employer participation in
operating and financing technical education and vocational training. With respect to the management
sructu , a small, high-level  igYcmmitt ("comite technique interministeriel"), representing key
ministries and employers' unions responsible for training and manpower development, would be set up
to: (a) oversee the implementation of policies and programs established in the Policy Letter; (b) promote
the unity and coherence of the TEVT system; (c) encourage the coordination between training institutions
and employers; and (d) promote the mobilization of public and private financing for technical education
and vocational training. A technical committee ("directoire") attached to the policy committee would
serve as its secretariat. It would include the three directors of the training departments of the ministries



11
directly concerned by the project, and at least two representatives from the private sector appointed by
the Federation of Mauritanian Employers.  The technical committee would: (a) oversee the
implementation of annual work programs and projects approved by the policy committee; (b) examine
the annual operating and investment budgets of training institutions; (c) supervise the operations of the
CRES (para 3.10); and (d) approve expenditures from the two training support funds (paras 3.18 and
3.28). The Government has submitted draft decrees establishing the policy committee and the technical
committee, with membership acceptable to IDA. The adoption of the legal instruments establishing the
policy committee and the technical committee, and the appointment of their members, would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
3.4          With respect to the financial and management autonomy of TEVT institutions, the
Government would introduce and adopt, for each technical and vocational training institution under the
Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Civil Service and Labor, and the Ministry of Fisheries and
Maritime Economy, a statute governing the internal operations of the institution, the responsibilities of
the institution's governing board, and a corresponding statute defining the functions, responsibilities,
career structure, and remuneration of technical teachers and vocational instructors. The Government has
submitted draft decrees and associated terms of reference establishing two working committees, one to
prepare or revise the statutes governing the operation of training institutions, and a second one to prepare
or revise the statutes governing the conduct of technical and vocational instructors. During negotiations,
the Government gave assurances that the new institutional and personnel statutes would be implemented
with effect from the start of academic year 1994/1995.
3.5          With respect to cooperation between employers and training institutions, a number of
specific measures would be introduced to guarantee effective involvement of employers in all aspects of
technical education and vocational training. At the policy level, employers would be represented on the
policy committee and the technical committee. At the management level, employers would be appointed
to the governing boards of training institutions. At the operational level, employers would participate
in curriculum design conmittees, in setting performance standards for staff and students, and in student
placement and follow-up. Importantly, employers' contribution to the financing of technical and
vocational education and training would be strengthened, either through the existing apprentice tax levied
on the payroll of modern sector enterprises (a tax system which needs to be re-examined (para 3.42)),
or through direct participation in the operational budget of the institution, a requirement which applies,
for example, to the maritime training school (para 3.33).
3.6          Investment Program.  Institutional measures would be accompanied by specific
investments designed to: (1) maintain the quality and improve the efficiency of technical education; (2)
revitalize the vocational training system; (3) support maritime sector training; and (4) strengthen sector
planning and management, as summarized in the box below:
1. Maintain the Quality and Improve the EMciency of Technical Education
(US$6.8 Million)
3.7          This component contributes to the Government's objectives to staff its technical schools
and vocational training centers with qualified Mauritanian staff by the year 2,000 and
maintain the quality and improve the relevance of existing programs. There are four sub-components:
(a) creating a resource center for technical education and vocational training; (b) establishing a capacity
for technical teacher training and upgrading; (c) providing an institutional support fund to improve the
efficiency of technical and vocational training institutions; and (d) constructing a workshop for
agricultural mechanics training.



12
PROJECT COMPONENrS
I   Maintain the Quality and Improve the Efficiency of Technical Education (US$6.8 million):
(a)   creating a resource center for technical and vocational education
(b)   establishing a capacity for technical teacher training
(c)   establishing an institutional support fund for TEVT institutions
(d)   constructing a workshop for agricultural mechanics training
2.  ReviitaDze the Vocational Training System (US$1.6 milHion):
(a)  implementing a restructuring program for the CFPP
(b)   cstablishing a training support fund to finance training activities initiated by micro-enterprises.
3.   Support Maritime Sector Training (US$5.9 million):
(a)   constructing new facilities for the Maritime Training School
(b)   supporting program development and staff training
4.  Strengthen Sector Plaining and Management (US$2.1 nillion):
(a)   strengthening sector planning and programming
(b)   supporting project management and coordination
a.      Creating a Resource Center for Technical Education and Vocational Training
(US$3.3 million)
3.8             Scope and Objectives. The objective of this component is to establish a professional
capacity to help guide the development of the TEVT system. The project would support this objective
by creating a Resource Center for Technical Education and Vocational Training ("Centre de Ressources
et de Suivi", CRES) to provide professional support to training institutions and staff, establish effective
links with employers, develop training programs in response to market demand, evaluate the relevance
and quality of training programs, and maintain quality standards.
3.9             Background.  The TEVT system  in Mauritania suffers from  a number of systemic
shortcomings which constrain efforts to improve its quality and efficiency. These shortcomings include
an inadequate knowledge of labor market requirements, weaknesses in the identification of training and
upgrading needs, poorly defined training standards and qualifications, little attention to the design of
training programs that are responsive to employers' demands, and inadequate provision for staff training
and upgrading. To address these shortcomings, the project would establish the CRES to support TEVT
institutions in the areas of system development, management, planning, evaluation, research and public
relations. Terms of reference for the CRES are in Annex 5.
3.10            Oreanization of the Resource Center.   The CRES would operate under the overall
guidance of the technical committee (para 3.3), which would establish its priorities and approve its work
program. During the start-up period 1993-95, the CRES would be a small unit attached to the CSET,
and staffed with four competent professionals (foreign experts) and four local counterparts. Its facilities
would be minimal, and the CRES would to a large extent depend on facilities and staff of the CSET.
A draft ministerial decree establishing the CRES and proposing an initial work program for 1993-94,
discussed during negotiations, would guide the development of the CRES in the start-up phase. At the
end of the first two years of operation, an evaluation of the CRES' organizational structure, staffing,
budget and performance would be carried out by an external auditor. The results of the audit would be
discussed at the joint Government-FAC-IDA mid-term review of project implementation, and a decision
made on the further development of the CRES (para 4.4). The Government's adoption of the legal
instrument creating the CRES would be a condition of credit effectiveness.



13
3.11         Project Support. The project would assist in establishing the CRES, with financing
coordinated between IDA and FAC. The IDA credit would finance the cost of two specialists for four
years each (a specialist in personnel management and staff upgrading, and a specialist in system planning
and management); four months of consultant services in the areas of training, employment and staff
development; and office equipment and furniture, pedagogical materials, and vehicles. Details are in
Annex 11. The two long-term specialists would be recruited by October 1993 under a PPF advance to
help initiate the CRES. FAC would finance short-term consultant services, fellowships for training and
upgrading of counterpart staff, and equipment and operating costs for the center. In addition, France
would, under its ongoing technical assistance program, assign two specialists to the staff of the CRES
(a project coordinator and a specialist in training module development). The Government would finance
the cost of four higher-level Mauritanian staff (counterparts to TA), support staff and other incremental
recurrent costs, and a building to be constructed on the site of the CSET in Nouakchott.
b. Establishing a Capadty for Technical Teacher Training (US$2.8 million)
3.12         Scope and Objectives. The objectives of this component are to Mauritanianize the
technical teaching corps and establish a local capacity for technical teacher training and upgrading. The
project would support these objectives by financing the local and overseas training of about 100 secondary
technical teachers and administrators, and strengthening the teacher training department of the CSET.
3.13         Background. In 1992-93, of the 145 teachers in technical education institutions, 70 are
nationals, 24 are foreigners on local contract, and 51 are French TA. All of the French TA and most
of the local contract staff are technical teachers. During the 1994-97 project period, several major
changes in staffing requirements are expected to occur, as follows: (a) France will reduce its technical
assistance support from 51 to 19 teaching positions by 1997, (b) the Government wants to replace costly
local contractors (24 positions) by 1997, and (c) the CET at Boghe needs to be staffed by 1995, and (d)
a number of existing and anticipated vacancies will need to be filled. Total requirements are estimated
by the Government at 130 new technical teachers by 1997. To guard against a significant negative impact
of these demands, the project would support an emergency training program for about 100 technical
teachers, as detailed in Annex 4. The remaining shortfall in technical teaching staff would continue to
be filled by expatriates in the short term.
3.14         Emergency Teacher Training Program.  The emergency technical teacher training
program would be conducted in existing facilities and managed by the teacher training department of
CSET. Teacher candidates would be recruited from the LCEP at the level of technician (BT) or from
the CSET with a higher technician diploma (BTS), and follow a two-year program of locally-conducted
pedagogical training and technical skills upgrading, in five major branches of specialization (mechanical,
electrical, civil, agricultural, and tertiary). To make up for the lack of employment experience of most
teacher candidates, a significant portion of the training program (from three to six months) would be in
the form of supervised practical attachments to industry. The proposed training program was reviewed
during project appraisal and found acceptable.
3.15         After 1997, at the completion of the emergency program, the focus would shift to teacher
upgrading, and the program would be transformed into a permanent capacity for technical teacher training
and upgrading, increasingly staffed by Mauritanian nationals who would follow an intensive period of
on-the-job coaching, combined with formal training overseas. The CRES, established under the project
(para 3.8), would provide technical expertise and backstopping during this transitional period.



14
3.16         PrQject Supp[rt. IDA and FAC will jointly provide support to this program. The IDA
credit would finance 30 overseas fellowships of 6 months each to provide trainee teachers with industrial
work experience in specializations not available in Mauritania; eight regional fellowships of nine months
each to train future staff of the Boghe agricultural college in agricultural mechanics and irrigation
techniques; 4 months of consulting services to develop teacher training programs; and laboratory and
workshop equipment for the CSET. FAC would finance 32 overseas fellowships (industrial attachments),
short-term consultant services for program development, the cost of locally conducted training courses
for Mauritanian CSET and CFPP staff (para 3.24), and operational support costs. FAC would also
provide, under its ongoing technical assistance program, a technical teacher trainer for four years, in
addition to the 13 French TA staff already assigned to the CSET. This expert would help set up the
emergency training program at the CSET. The Government would finance the cost of Mauritanian
counterparts to foreign TA staff and incremental operating costs. Details are provided in Annex 11.
c. Establishing an Institutional Support Fund for TEVT Institutions
(US$0.4 million)
3.17         Qbjectives. The objective of this component is to help technical education and vocational
training institutions develop their capacities to design and implement training courses in response to
requests from employers, and thereby improve their internal and external efficiencies.
3.18         Project Support. The project would set up a pilot Institutional Support Fund (ISF) of
approximately US$400,000 equivalent to finance training activities developed and implemented by
technical education or vocational training institutions. Training proposals would normally be prepared
by any public or private institution, submitted to the CRES for technical and financial evaluation, and
forwarded with the CRES's recommendation to the technical committee for approval. Proposal evaluation
criteria would include relevance to employment needs, quality of training content and approach, efficiency
of the training operation, and financial soundness of the proposal. The operational details of the FAC-
financed ISF are being worked out by the Cooperation Frangaise in Nouakchott, which will be responsible
for the fund's management and disbursements. The impact of activities financed by the ISF, particularly
in terms of qualitative improvements at the institutional level, would be evaluated annually by FAC and
the CRES, and adjustments in the fund's operation would be made as necessary.
d. Constructing a Workshop for Agricultural Mechanics Training (US$0.3 million)
3.19         Objectives. The objective of this component is to provide the agricultural technician
training college in Boghe with a maintenance hangar for agricultural machinery and a capacity for
conducting practical training programs in agricultural mechanics.
3.20         Background. The agricultural CEP in Boghe is supported under the ongoing Education
Sector Restructuring Project, with AfDB financing the civil works component and the IDA credit
providing for furniture and equipment. Construction of this school is underway. This CEP was designed
to supply trained manpower to support the rural economy along the Senegal river, including in particular
activities generated by the two new dams on that river. A detailed analysis of training needs, conducted
in 1992, revealed that lack of maintenance of irrigation equipment, agricultural machinery and heavy
public works equipment constitutes a major constraint to the development of mechanized agriculture, and
that this was not adequately taken into account in the original design of the CEP Boghe. IDA agreed with
this analysis and recommended that training courses be developed to address these shortcomings. Details
of these programs are available; they underline the need for a maintenance hangar to accommodate heavy
agricultural equipment and conduct hands-on training of agricultural mechanics. The proposed project
would provide this additional facility.



15
3.21         Project Supprt. The project would finance the construction of a 500 square meter
maintenance hangar for heavy agricultural machinery, to be located on available land adjacent to the CEP
Boghe. Preliminary designs are available and construction would be completed prior to the scheduled
opening of the college in 1995.
2. Revitalize the Vocational Training System (US$1.6 million)
3.22         Scope and Objectives. The objectives of this component are to: (a) re-establish the CFPP
as a skills training and upgrading center for employed workers; (b) extend its activities toward supporting
the training needs of the informal sector; and (c) improve the quality and relevance of its training
programs. A secondary objective would be to support the starting up of four regional training centers
(paras 2.12 and 2.32).
3.23         Background. The CFPP was established in 1978 under the First Education Project as a
vocational skills training and upgrading center for workers in the industrial sector. Additional support
was provided under the Second Education Project and the ongoing education project, increasing the
center's technical training capacity to about 250 workshop places and classroom capacity for about 200
students. It is equipped to conduct skills training programs in general mechanics, carpentry, plumbing,
and automotive repair, and is being extended under the ongoing education project with facilities for
training in refrigeration and electrical installations. Strong demand for tertiary sector training (typing,
accounting, office skills) filled all available classroom space in 1987 and 1988 and increased the CFPP's
throughput to almost 700 students. However, in 1989, after commercial training courses were transferred
to the newly-established LCo, CFPP's enrollment was reduced to about 150 trainees, mostly in nine-
month, full-time pre-employment technical courses. Rapidly declining employment prospects for these
graduates and failure of the CFPP to return to its original mandate of skill upgrading for employed
workers (as foreseen under the ongoing education project), coupled with poor management performance
and a quasi-total lack of contact with employers and trade unions, have contributed to today's situation
where the CFPP has become largely irrelevant to national manpower needs.
3.24         During the preparation of this project, the Government agreed to restructure the CFPP
and return it to its original mandate of skills upgrading for already employed workers. In anticipation of
this restructuring plan, training activities were suspended in mid-1992. To resolve the management
impasse, the Government appointed a new director, with a mandate to revitalize the CFPP, improve its
facilities and staff, re-establish contacts with employers, re-start formal sector skills upgrading courses,
and begin to develop training activities in support of micro-enterprises and informal sector businesses.
Initial results of these measures are promising: a new managerial team has been appointed; an inventory
of facilities and equipment is being carried out; workshops and office buildings are being repaired and
improved; and contacts with the employers federation are being re-established. In addition, 12 Tunisian
technical specialists, funded by FADES, will provide assistance in staff and program development for the
CFPP and CFPRs over the next two years. These recent efforts, and the Government's determination
to establish a viable vocational training system that includes the CFPP and the four CFPRs, argue for
continued but carefully targeted support for vocational training.
3.25         Proposed Program of Action. The proposed project would focus on restructuring the
CFPP and addressing its institutional problems, and begin to develop skills training and upgrading
programs for small business owners and entrepreneurs. Some short-term technical assistance would be
provided to help develop and implement the restructuring program. Since the CFPP and the four CFPRs
generally have acceptable physical facilities, IDA support for hardware would be limited to replacing
obsolete equipment, providing spare parts to repair existing equipment, and supplying hand tools and
consumable training supplies.



16
a. Implementing a Restructuring Plan for the CFPP (US$1.2 million)
3.26         The restructuring plan to be implemented under the proposed project would include
several short-term actions, as follows: Firs1, an audit (financed under the ongoing education project) was
conducted of all CFPP staff for the purpose of developing a staffing plan appropriate to the CFPP's new
mandate. The audit would lead to reassignment or dismissal of instructors who do not fit the required
profile, and to a comprehensive staffing plan for the vocational training system (CFPP and CFPRs).
Second, a staff upgrading or retraining program would be prepared, based on the audit results, for
implementation no later than January 1994. Third, an inventory of available equipment and tools was
made to prepare an equipment repair and replacement program. Fourh, preparations were made to offer
three skills upgrading courses, in auto mechanics, electrical wiring, and office skills (for which an urgent
demand has been identified, and training staff and facilities are available), to begin no later than
September 1993. FiRh, a pilot program of small-scale surveys of informal sector training needs in the
Nouakchott area would be conducted and some simple training modules developed. The restructuring
plan, discussed during negotiations, covers the first year of project implementation. It summarizes the
various steps needed to restart training operations on a limited scale in September 1993, with full-scale
operation of the CFPP expected to begin in September 1994. A three-year work program covering the
1994-1997 period would be reviewed during the first annual review of project implementation. Adoption
of the restructuring plan for the CFPP and implementation of a staffing plan acceptable to IDA would
be a condition of disbursement for the vocational training component.
3.27         Proiect Suppor. The IDA credit would finance three months of short-term consulting
services to assist the CFPP in preparing a staffing plan, based on the personnel audit, and developing
proposals for a staff upgrading and/or retraining program. These activities would be financed with a PPF
advance. In addition, the credit would finance: (a) four months of short-term consulting services to
conduct small-scale surveys of informal sector training needs and develop training modules responding
to those needs; (b) vehicles for the CFPP and CFPRs; (c) office equipment and furniture for the CFPP;
(d) a supply of handtools (kits) for 200 trainees; (e) the cost of minor repairs to existing buildings; (f)
the cost of repairing existing and replacing obsolete workshop equipment; and (g) a four-year supply of
consumable items for training purposes. FAC would finance three fellowships for overseas training of
senior CFPP staff, and ten local fellowships to upgrade CFPP instructors. Details are provided in Anne
I.
b. Establishing a Training Support Fund to Finance Training Activities Initiated
by Micro-enterprises (US$0.4 million)
3.28         Scope and Objectives. In support of Government policy to promote the development of
the informal sector and improve the quality of its services, the project would support the piloting of a
Training Support Fund (TSF). This fund would differ from the FAC-financed fund (para 3.18) in that
it would finance small training projects initiated by groups of entrepreneurs or business owners in the
informal sector, rather than initiated by training centers. However, the projects would be prepared by
and in cooperation with one of the training centers. The projects would come mostly from the informal
sector and would consist, for example, of training activities that improve the skills of working
apprentices, upgrade the knowledge or improve the working methods of master apprentices (those that
employ apprentices), provide simple training materials to organized groups of workers or apprentices,
or support the development of micro-enterprises. Training proposals generated by modern sector workers
or small businesses with training needs which cannot be met through regular programs available in the
training centers would also be eligible to participate in the TSF.



17
3.29         Training Support Fund. The TSF would finance 100 percent of the cost of approved
training projects, in accordance with eligibility criteria as specified in the procedures manual governing
the operation of the TSF (Annex 7!. Grants would be modest, varying from UM 100,000 (US$1,000
equivalent) to a maximum of UM 1 million (US$10,000 equivalent). Applications for grants would be
jointly prepared by the initiating sector group requesting training and the participating training institution,
based on a detailed proposal justifying the expenditure. Proposals would be submitted to the CRES (para
3.10) for technical and financial evaluation and forwarded to the technical committee (para 3.3) for
approval. A procedural manual, spelling out the criteria for accessing the TSF, evaluating training
proposals submitted by beneficiary groups, and awarding contracts to provide the requested training
services, has been prepared and is acceptable to IDA. In order to establish acceptable procedures and
ensure that the general objectives and criteria established for the fund are being met, the first four
proposals accepted for funding would require prior IDA approval. Thereafter, approvals would be given
by the technical committee, with a posteriori control by IDA. An independent technical auditor would
carry out technical audits of the fund's performance on a semi-annual basis, and provide a comprehensive
performance assessment of the TSF in conjunction with the mid-term review of project implementation
(para 4.4).
3.30         Project Support. The TSF would be established in a commercial bank in Nouakchott,
with an initial IDA contribution of US$100,000 equivalent, and replenished as required to a maximum
amount of US$400,000 equivalent, subject to confirmation of satisfactory use of the TSF. Disbursements
from the TSF would be made by the PCU (para 4.13), as manager of the TSF account, following
acceptable disbursement procedures established for small construction contracts under the ongoing
education project. As a condition of disbursement for the TSF, the Government would provide proof that
it has established the TSF and adopted the manual of procedures for the operation of the TSF, acceptable
to IDA, and has appointed an external auditor to conduct semi-annual technical audits of the TSF
operation, with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.
3. Support Maritime Sector Training (US$5.9 million)
3.31         Scope and Objectives. The objective of this component would be to accommodate the
national maritime training school (ENEMP) in appropriate facilities, and improve the quality of its
training programs.
3.32         Background. Support for a fisheries training center (CFPM) is provided under the
ongoing education project in the form of equipment and technical assistance for the training of deckhands
and mechanics, with a new school building to be funded by EDF. EDF financing fell through in 1987
for technical reasons and, as a temporary measure, the school relocated to an abandoned mining training
center in Nouadhibou, under a 10-year lease from SNIM. In 1991, the fisheries training center was
upgraded to a national maritime training school (ENEMP), with the introduction of training programs for
deck officers and engineer officers. The existing training facilities are not well suited for maritime
training, are poorly located, and in an advanced state of disrepair. As the lease on the SNIM facility
expires in 1998 and is not to be renewed, the Government has decided to construct a new purpose-built
facility in a better location.
3.33         Institutional Setup. Under the proposed project, the ENEMP would operate as an
autonomous institution within an appropriate legal framework that defines its organizational, management
and financial structure, in conformity with international standards as defined by the International Maritime
Organization (IMO). Existing statutes governing the internal operations of the institution, its relations
with the governing board and employer federations, and the obligations and working conditions of
ENEMP staff, would be amended and brought into line with international standards. These amendments



18
would include regulations governing the rights and responsibilities of ENEMP students, and provisions
for private sector financing of operational costs. External assistance to develop these statutes is being
provided by the IMO, beginning with a recently completed audit of ENEMP staff, and the validation of
training programs. With respect to its financial structure, responsibility for co-financing the operating
costs of the ENEMP would be assigned to the shipowners, through their professional umbrella
organization ("Fderation des Industries et Armement de Peche", FIAP), as provided for in the policy
program of the ongoing education project. An agreement in principle has been reached with FIAP that
it would contribute 0.2 percent of its turnover (estimated at about UM 40 million in 1992, and
representing about 40% of ENEMP's operating expenditures). In return for its financial contribution,
FIAP would be given a proportional representation (40 percent) on ENEMP's governing board. As a
condition of disbursement for the construction and equipping of the ENEMP, the Government would (a)
conclude an agreement with FIAP stipulating the contribution of the private sector to ENEMP's operating
costs; (b) amend and adopt ENEMP's institutional statute to provide, inter alia, for representation of
FIAP on the institution's governing board; and (c) adopt an institutional restructuring plan and begin the
implementation of a staff assignment plan, acceptable to IDA.
a. Constructing New Facilities for the Maritime Training School
(US$5.1 million)
3.34         Justification. Proposals for new ENEMP facilities are based on a long-term staff
development program for the fisheries sector which assumes: (i) a conservative annual production target
of 440,000 tons (against 550,000 tons of fish produced in 1991 and 1992); (ii) an operational Mauritanian
fishing fleet of about 165 vessels (its current level), fully staffed by nationals within 15 years; and (iii)
continued use of overseas training for senior maritime staff. An analysis of training needs, taking into
account the inventory of existing staff, a Mauritanization program projected over 30 years, and assuming
that up to 25% of training would be conducted overseas, particularly for officers and captains who require
international certification, results in an average annual requirement of 30 qualified seamen, 45 diesel
mechanics, 12 electromechanics and refrigeration technicians, and 35 deck officers and officer-mechanics.
This justifies the ENEMP to provide accommodation (workshops, classrooms and ancillary facilities
including dormitories) for about 165 full-time students. Details of training programs and accommodation
needs are in Annex .
3.35         Poject Suppor. The IDA credit would finance the construction, equipment and furniture
for the new ENEMP, including residential facilities, to accommodate 165 students (100 middle-level
trainees and 65 officer-trainees), for a potential output of 70-80 qualified seamen and mechanics and 30-
35 officers per annum. Details are provided in Annex 11. A detailed schedule of accommodation,
itemized equipment lists and preliminary cost estimates were reviewed during appraisal. The proposed
building site in Nouadhibou is government-owned, well-located near the commercial fishing port, and
suitable for construction of the proposed building.
b. Supporting Program Development and Staff Training (US$0.8 million)
3.36         Training Programs. The structure of the proposed training program would consist of
school-based training alternated with periods of practical training aboard ship, followed by extended
periods of practical attachment as required for professional certification. Draft training programs for all
specializations have been prepared by the DFM, in consultation with FIAP, and with technical assistance
financed under the ongoing education project. The draft training programs follow international standards,
as laid down by IMO, but require official validation for international certification purposes. The
Government has provided assurances that all training programs to be conducted at the ENEMP will be



19
validated by the IMO no later than December 31, 1993, and will be implemented in accordance with IMO
standards and practices.
3.37         Project SupR3D . The IDA credit would finance six man-months of short-term consultant
services to: (a) conduct an audit of ENEMP's instructional and administrative staff; (b) assist in
developing and implementing locally-conducted staff upgrading programs: and (c) computerize staff and
student records, and establish a student tracer system. In addition, the project would finance (a) up to
six man-years of overseas fellowships to train two instructors for the mechanics and deck officer training
programs; (b) four years of technical assistance to replace the two Mauritanian staff on training; and (c)
30 man-months of technical assistance to the director of ENEMP to help establish the new institution and
its programs. Details are provided in Annex 11.
4. Strengthen Sector Planning and Management Capadties (US$2.1 Million)
3.38         The proposed project would (a) strengthen the departments responsible for technical
education, vocational training, and maritime training to effectively plan and coordinate the development
of programs in their respective sectors and manage resources, and (b) support project management and
coordination and finance pre-investment studies.
a. Strengthen Sector Planning and Programming (US$0.5 million)
3.39         Scope and Obiectives. The objective of this component would be to support the existing
(limited) capacity for sector planning and programming in the three departments of the TEVT system
(paras 2.11-2.13). As responsibility for management and operation of technical schools and training
centers would be delegated to the directors of these institutions (para 3.4), with support from CRES, the
role of the TEVT departments would essentially be limited to sub-sector planning and programming, and
inter-ministerial coordination. In carrying out these tasks, the departments would use the facilities and
expertise available in the CRES, as well as the data system on employment to be developed under the
UNDP/ILO program (para 2.32).
3.40         Proect SuXo . The project would support, in each of the departments, a small logistical
capacity for conducting the planning and programming functions, by providing office equipment and
furniture, computers and reprographic equipment, and a vehicle. The project would also finance the cost
of 12 months of training in technical and vocational education planning and program development for the
three departmental directors, local training seminars for departmental staff, and local staff training in
office technology and data handling.
b. Support Project Management and Coordination (US$1.6 million)
3.41         BackgrouWn. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU), established in 1978 under the
Ministry of Plan, coordinates the implementation of the ongoing education project and the preparation
of the proposed project. The unit operates smoothly and has acquired the necessary competence to
efficiently coordinate project implementation. In addition to its current responsibilities, it would
coordinate the implementation of the proposed project. To this end, the PCU would be strengthened by
the recruitment of two contractual senior staff (a project manager responsible for the TEVT project, and
an administrator), and two support staff (an accounts clerk and an administrative secretary). The two
contractual positions would be recruited on a competitive basis under terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA and appointed subject to IDA's approval. Terms of reference for the PCU and the two senior
staff are at Annex 9. As a condition of credit effectiveness, the PCU project manager and the
administrator, acceptable to IDA, would be appointed and in post.



20
3.42          Eroject Suppor. The IDA credit would finance the incremental investment costs and
operational expenditures of the PCU, including vehicles, office equipment, furniture, supplies and other
operating expenditures, and the salaries of the project manager and the administrator for four years each.
About 20 years of local salaries (accounts clerk, administrative secretary, and junior support staff) would
be financed by the Government. The credit would also finance the cost of an external auditor for about
four months. In addition, the credit would finance consultant services and operating costs associated with
pre-investment studies, conducted according to terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. A breakdown of
these costs is provided in Annex 11.
B. Project Cost and Fmnandng Plan
3.43          The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at about US$16.4 million, with a
base cost of US$14.2 million and a foreign exchange component of US$ 12.7 million. Price
contingencies, estimated at US$1.4 million, assume an annual domestic inflation rate of 7.0% and a
foreign inflation rate of 3.9%. Physical contingencies are estimated at US$0.8 million (6% of base
costs). IDA would finance about 75% of total project costs (US$12.5 million). Financing from FAC
is estimated at FF 12 million (US$2.2 million equivalent). The Government of Mauritania would
contribute about US$1.7 million equivalent. Detailed project costs are given in Annex I 1.
3.44          Recurrent Cost bU lications. Annex 10 (page 3) details the incremental recurrent cost
implications of project investments and policy measures over the four-year project period. In technical
ducation, by 1997, the project is expected to have: (a) generated savings of UM 12 million by replacing
local contract staff with nationals; (b) increased salary expenditures by UM 29.3 million as a result of
replacing French technical assistance, recruitment to fill vacancies and staff new programs, and changing
the statute of technical teachers; (c) increased operating costs by UM 44 million as a result of expanding
teacher training (UM 18 million), creating a resource center (UM 18 million), and introducing new
courses (UM 8 million). At the end of the project period (1997), recurrent expenditures for technical
education will have increased by UM 61.3 million (or 13%) from their 1992 level. In vocational
training, the project will not generate any additional recurrent expenditures for the CFPP. However, the
CFPRs will be opened in 1993 at an estimated annual recurrent cost of UM 15 million in 1994,
increasing to UM 20 million by 1997. The total increase would be UM 61.3 million over the project
period,5 equivalent to a 60% increase in annual recurrent expenditures for vocational training by 1997.
In maritime training, the additional cost of operating the new ENEMP facilities beginning in 1996 is
estimated at UM 30 million, and the change in statute for ENEMP staff beginning in 1994 at UM 5
million. This increase of UM 35 million over the project period may be partially offset by savings
resulting from internal efficiency measures, particularly reductions in staff:student ratios. Detailed
proposals of savings to be generated at the ENEMP would be prepared as part of the operational plan for
securing private sector financing of the ENEMP (para 3.33).
3.45          Anticipated resources. The main sources of financing (para 2.17) are:
(a)    Direct employer contributions, expected to increase from UM 3 million in 1992 to at
least UM 43 million by 1997 as responsibility for financing the operating costs of
ENEMP is transferred in part to the private sector. (Shipowners, represented by FIAP,
have agreed to contribute 0.2% of their turnover, equivalent to about UM 40 million
5 Th operating coda of the four CFPRE, alIthough not caed under the proposed project, am included in the
recurmit cost calculation, as the CFPRs an an integral pat of the TEVI progrmn suppoited through the
project.



21
(1992), to the financing of ENEMP, beginning in 1994.) The details of employers'
contributions to maritime sector training will be included in the operational plan for
securing co-financing of ENEMP's operational costs by the private sector (para 3.33).
(b)   Indirect employer contributions, expected to increase from UM 23 million in 1992 to UM
45 million in 1997 as a result of improved collection of the existing training tax (para
2.17). The Government would be asked to conduct a study during the first year of
project implementation to evaluate the current financing of the vocational training system,
and analyze alternative methods to finance technical education, vocational training, and
maritime sector training. Terms of reference for this study are given in Annex 10. The
results of this study would be reviewed with IDA no later than June 1, 1994, and agreed
recommendations would be implemented effective January 1, 1995. The Government has
given assurances to this effect.
(c)    Donor support for operating expenditures will be reduced from UM 33 million in 1992
(IDA recurrent financing for ENEMP) to zero by end-1993. The Government is
expected to receive UM 27 million for FY93 and FY94 from the Saudi Fund for the
operating costs of the newly constructed CFPRs. Beyond FY94, the extent of donor
support is not known.
3.46         Imnact on the Government's Recurrent Budget.  Contributions from general fiscal
revenues are expected to increase from UM 229.6 million in 1992 to UM 259.5 million in 1997 (a 13%
increase in real terms by project end). Details are given in Annex 10.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation and Readiness
4.1          Detailed project preparation was conducted by the technical staff of the ministries
concerned, assisted by external agencies where necessary and supported by pre-investment studies
financed under the ongoing education project. The PCU provided overall coordination and logistic
support. Throughout preparation, discussions were held with FAC and other donors, particularly with
UNDP-ILO and EDF, to agree on sector strategies and program support. Working papers for all project
components have been prepared. The contents of the emergency program for training technical teachers
has been finalized. Audits of equipment and personnel for the CFPP and ENEMP are available. A
detailed accommodation schedule, architect's brief and equipment lists for the maritime school are
available.
B. Project Coordination and Management
4.2          Day-to-day management and implementation of each project component would be the
responsibility of the concerned ministries, as follows: the technical education component would be
managed by the DET of the Ministry of Education; the vocational training component would be managed
by the DFP of the Ministry of Civil Service, Labor, Youth and Sports; and the maritime training
comgnent would be under the DFM of the Ministry of Fisheries and Maritime Economy. The technical
committee (para 3.3) would ensure cooperation between these three directorates and promote the
participation of employers in project-supported activities. The Training Support Fund would be overseen
by the technical committee and administered by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). Terms of reference
of the technical committee are in Annex .



22
4.3          Coordination of project activities, administrative and financial matters, monitoring of
project implementation and outcomes, and imter-agency coordination would be the responsibility of the
PCU. The PCU would: (a) coordinate the preparation of annual work programs and budgets for all
components; (b) procure goods and services and recruit consultants; (c) maintain and consolidate all
project accounts including special accounts; (d) prepare the necessary documentation for withdrawal of
proceeds from the Credit account; (e) make arrangements for the audit of project accounts and SOEs; (f)
prepare and submit progress reports to IDA and cofinanciers, as required; (g) organize annual and mid-
term reviews of project implementation; (h) attend meetings convened by the technical committee; and
(i) liaise with cofinanciers and maintain an effective dialogue with key donors and agencies in the sector.
Terms of reference of the PCU and its senior staff are in Annex 9.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.4          Monitoring and evaluation of project performance and outcomes would be carried out by
the implementing units over the life of the project, with the PCU playing a coordinating role. Key
monitoring indicators are shown in Annex 2. In its role as project coordinator, the PCU would: (a)
organize, in September of each year, a joint IDA-Government review of project implementation, based
on the progress reports and on an annual work program and budget for the next year; and (b) carry out
a mid-term review of project implementation, jointly with IDA and FAC in September 1995. In
conjunction with this review, a performance assessment of the CRES (para 3.10) and the TSF (para 3.27)
would also be carried out. Details on the Bank's supervision plan, and on the annual and mid-term
reviews, are provided in Amex 12. Based on the results of the mid-term review, the Government will
prepare and implement an action plan, acceptable to IDA, for further implementation of the project. In
addition, the Government will, within six months of the Credit closing date, submit a project completion
report, prepared in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to IDA. The Government has given
assurances to this effect.
D. Procurement and Disbursement
4.5          Table 2 summarizes the project cost by disbursement category, and proposed procurement
arrangements. A detailed procurement plan and timetables are given in Annex 13. Mauritania's
procurement laws and regulations conform to IDA procurement guidelines. No special exemptions,
permits or licenses need to be specified in credit documents for International Competitive Bidding ([CB)
as Mauritania's procurement regulations allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary
provisions in local regulations.



23
Table 2:  Suirv of Promosed Procuremnt Arranoements
(US# million quivalent, including contingencies)
Methods for IDA financing      Not Bank
Category of ExpendItures                           ICB     LCB     Other       Finwnced    Total
1. Civil Works
1.1  New construction                             3.1         -        -         0.6 a/       3.7
(3.1)                                      (3.1)
1.2  Rehabilitatlon                                         0.1           -        -          0.1
(0.1)                             (0.1)
2. 6002db
2.1  Pedagogical quipment                         1.9                 0.5        0.6 b/       3.0
(1.9)               (0.5)                  (2.4)
2.2  Office equipment                             0.2        -        0.5                     0.7
(0.2)      -        (0.5)                  (0.7)
2.3  Office furniture                             0.4                   -          -          0.4
(0.4)                                      (0.4)
2.4  Vehicles                                     0.4        -          -          -          0.4
(0.4)                                      (0.4)
3. Soecialist Services
3.1  Specialists/International                          -              1.9        0.1 b/      2.0
(1.9)                  (1.9)
3.2  Specialist/Local                                    -            0.5         0.2 a/      0.7
(0.5)                  (0.5)
3.3  Architect/Engin/Supervision                    -        -        0.4          -          0.4
(0.4)                  (0.4)
3.4  Pre-Invest-mnt Studles                                  -        0.2          -          0.2
(0.2)                  (0.2)
4. Trainfna
4.1  Local Seminrs                                  -        -        0.1                     0.1
(0.1)                  (0.1)
4.2  FelLowships                                    -        -         0.9        0.6 b/      1.5
(0.9)                  (0.9)
5.  Suort Fund-                                                            0.4        0.4 b/      0.6
(0.4)                  (0.4)
7.  Incremental Operating Costs                         -        -         0.5        1.4 a/b/   1.9
(0.5)                  (0.5)
8. PPF Refinncing                                            -             0.5                    0.5
(0.5)                  (0.5)
Total Costs                                            6.0    0.1          6.4        3.9        16.4
IDA Credit                                          C 6.0)  (0.1)         (6.4)                 (12.5)
Note:   Figures my not add up due to rouriding.
Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by the IDA credit.
a/  Financed by Governent  nd procured urder Its procedures.
b/ Financed by FAC nd procured under its procedures.
4.6              Civil Worcs. The civil works program financed by IDA (US$3.2 million) concerns the
construction of ENEMP in Nouadhibou, the agricultural machinery workshop at the CET Boghe, and
minor repair to workshops at the CFPP. Consultants are being hired under PPF financing to prepare bid
documents for the ENEMP, the most critical procurement item to be financed by the IDA credit. The
contract for construction of the ENEMP, estimated to cost US$2.8 million, net of taxes and duties and



24
including contingencies, would be awarded through ICB, while the contract for rehabilitation of the
workshops, estimated to cost US$0.1 million, would be awarded through LCB, in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1992).
4.7          Goods. Goods financed under the credit (US$3.9 million) include furniture, office
equipment and supplies, workshop and laboratory equipment, vehicles, and consumable materials. Goods
would be grouped into packages of at least US$150,000 each and procured through ICB in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1992). A
preferential margin of 15%, or the applicable customs duty, whichever is less, over the c.i.f. prices of
competing goods for all ICB procurement would be given to domestic firms in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines. Goods that cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$150,000 each would be
procured through international shopping or through the UNDP's Inter-Agency Procurement Services
Office (IAPSO). Office supplies, spare parts, and consumable materials for the CFPP, CPPR and PCU,
which are available off-the-shelf and cannot be grouped into bid packages of at least US$50,000 may be
procured through prudent local shopping, based on price quotations obtained from at least three reliable
suppliers, provided that the aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed US$250,000
equivalent. All bids would be submitted on a c.i.f. basis for imported goods and on an ex-factory basis
for locally manufactured goods.
4.8          Consultant and other services. Specialist consultant services financed by IDA (US$3.0
million equivalent) would be contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants (August 1992). Services to be contracted include short-term consultants and long-term
technical assistance, training services, architectural services and construction supervision for ENEMP,
and technical and financial auditing. Prior IDA review would not apply to contracts estimated to cost
less than US$75,000 equivalent. However, this exception would not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts, to the employment of individuals, to single-source hiring of firms, to assignments of a
critical nature as determined by IDA, and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
US$75,000 equivalent or more.
4.9          Procurement status of ongoing projects and proposed arrangements.  Although
disbursements under the ongoing project are on schedule, construction works by local contractors are
delayed by cumbersome administrative procedures, in particular for obtaining import licenses from the
Customs authorities and foreign currency from the Central Bank to purchase imported goods. The
Government will take the necessary measures to ensure that customs formalities for obtaining import
licenses for goods and services procured under the project will be processed within one month of the date
of application. The Govermnent will also use the Bank's standard bidding documents, allowing any local
or foreign contractor to indicate the percentage of the bid price required to be paid in foreign currency.
4.10         Review by IDA. IDA-financed contracts for works and goods above a threshold of
US$120,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The review process would
cover 89% of the total value of the amount contracted for goods and 96% of the amount contracted for
civil works. Selective post-review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels would apply to about
one in three contracts. Contracts for informal sector training activities financed under the TSF (para
4.12) which exceed US$5,000 equivalent would require prior review by IDA. Draft standard bidding
documents for LCB would be reviewed by and agreed with IDA. Contracts for goods and services
financed under parallel financing arrangements would be awarded in accordance with the cofinancier's
procurement regulations. Details are given in Annex 13.
4.11         Disbursements. The project is expected to be completed over a four-year period, with
the IDA Credit disbursed over five years, according to the categories shown in Table 3. The estimated



25
disbursement profile is shown in Annex 14. Disbursement of the Credit would be fully documented,
except for expenditures valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent which would be made against
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation for withdrawals under SOEs would be retained at
the PCU for review by IDA supervision missions and for semiannual audits. Disbursements for contracts
for training programs and services that meet the eligibility criteria established for the TSF (para 4.12)
and valued to a maximum of US$10,000 equivalent will be made on the basis of SOEs, with relevant
documentation also retained by the PCU for review by IDA supervision missions and external auditors.
Table 3: Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Proposed IDA Allocation
Cateyorv of Expenditure          Financed b   A           of ExRcnitures
(USS million)
1. Civil works                           2.7                  100
2. Equipment, Materials and Supplies     3.1                  100
3. Vehicles                              0.3                   100
4. Local Training & Fellowships          0.9                  100
5. Specialist Services                   2.8                  100
6. Support Fund                          0.4                  100
7. PPF                                   0.5                  100
8. Incremental Operating Costs           0.4                  100
9. Unallocated                           IA
TOTAL                          12.5
E. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
4.12         Special Accoun. To facilitate disbursements, the Government would open a Specia
Project Account (SPA) in a commercial bank in Nouakchott to cover IDA's share of eligible expenditures,
managed by the PCU. The authorized allocation for the SPA would be US$500,000 equivalent. IDA
would make an initial deposit of US$500,000 equivalent into the SPA upon credit effectiveness and would
replenish the SPA upon receipt of satisfactory proof of incurred eligible expenditures. Replenishment
requests would be accompanied by up-to-date bank statements and reconciliations of the SPA. To
expedite the implementation of small training programs targeted at informal sector entrepreneurs, a
SDecial Account for the Training Support Fund (SATSF) in UM will be opened at a commercial bank in
Nouakchott. At all times, this special account will be maintained and operated on terms acceptable to
IDA. The authorized allocation will be US$100,00 equivalent replenished quarterly up to a total of
US$400,000 equivalent over the project implementation period, providing that disbursement requests
exceed US$25,000 equivalent and are accompanied by appropriate Bank statements and reconciliations.
An initial deposit of US$100,000 would be made into the SATSF by IDA upon fulfillment of the
disbursement condition for the vocational training component.
4.13         The PCU would be responsible for the project's financial management and would maintain
consolidated project accounts following the system established under the ongoing education project.
Project accounts, including the Special Account, would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. All disbursements under SOEs would be audited semi-annually. Annual audit reports



26
of project accounts, of reasonable scope and detail, will be submitted within six months of the end of each
fiscal year, and, in the case of SOEs, semi-annual reports will be submitted within six months after the
end of each audit period. The appointment of an independent auditor under a multi-year contract,
acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1          Improvements in the quality and relevance of technical education and vocational training
are expected from the creation of the resource center and the two support funds which would benefit all
training institutions country-wide. Other mutually reinforcing quality improvement measures, in the form
of well-trained instructors, good pedagogical back-stopping, adequate training facilities, and improved
management would enhance internal efficiency and reduce wastage. The impact of these measures would
be felt in: (a) increased relevance of training programs to labor market demand, as training would shift
from a supply-driven to a more flexible, demand-driven system where employers increasingly participate
in the development, operation and financing of the training programs; (b) improved labor productivity
as students would receive better-quality, more relevant training; and (c) enhanced financial sustainability
of the training system through the transfer of responsibility for financing the cost of vocational and
maritime training to the private sector, resulting in (i) an increase of its share of TEVT recurrent cost
financing from 9% in 1992 to 25% in 1997, and (ii) a 13-percent increase in recurrent expenditure
financing for TEVT on general fiscal revenues over the same period.
B. Risks
5.2          There are two main risks. EiEM, the economy may not be able to generate enough
employment and absorb all graduates from the training system. This risk would be addtessed by: (a)
increasing managerial and financial autonomy of training institutions allowing them to better integrate
training with employment and hence encouraging the placement of graduates in jobs; and (b) establishing
an employment monitoring system, that would allow continual and careful adjustment of the development
and output of the training system to estimated labor market demands. Secon , the training system may
not be able to respond adequately to labor demands. This risk would be reduced by increasing the
participation of employers in the design, development, delivery and financing of training programs, and
through employer representation on the governing boards of training institutions.
VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1          The Government has met the conditions of negotiations by furnishing the following
documents for discussion and finalization at negotiations:
(a)    The final draft of the Letter of Sector Development Policy, accompanied by a four-year
action plan with quantitative targets for the 1994-97 period;
(b)    Draft decrees establishing the policy committee and the technical committee, with
membership acceptable to IDA;



27
(c)    Draft decrees establishing the working committees (and their terms of reference)
responsible for preparing the statutes governing the operations of training institutions and
the conduct of their staff;
(d)    Draft decree establishing the CRES;
(e)    Preliminary results of the audit of CFPP staff; an inventory of equipment and tools with
a costed program for repair or replacement; and the final draft of the CFPP restructuring
plan;
(f)    Draft decree establishing the TSF, and an operational manual for the TSF including
criteria for project evaluation and award of TSF funds;
(g)    Preliminary results of the audit of ENEMP staff, and a draft plan for securing the
financing of ENEMP's operational costs by the private sector;
(h)    Draft letter of invitation and a short list of architectural firms to be invited to submit bids
for the design, preparation of bid documents, and supervision of construction of the
ENEMP.
6.2          During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would:
(a)    Provide evidence that all training programs to be conducted at the ENEMP will be
validated by the IMO no later than December 31, 1993, and will be implemented in
accordance with IMO standards and practices (para 3.36);
(b)   Implement the recommendations of the study on the financing mechanisms of the
vocational training system, effective January 1, 1995 (para 3.45);
(c)    Based on the results of the mid-term review, prepare and implement an action plan,
acceptable to IDA, for further implementation of the project; and within six months of
the Credit closing date, transmit a completion report, prepared in accordance with terms
of reference acceptable to IDA (para 4.4);
(d)    Submit to IDA annual audit reports, of reasonable scope and detail, within six months
of the end of each fiscal year, and, in the case of SOEs, submit semi-annual reports
within six months after the end of each audit period (para 4.13).
6.3          As a condition of Board presentation, the Government has adopted the approved letter
of sector development policy and an accompanying action plan, including quantitative targets for the
1994-1997 period (para 3.1).
6.4          The following would be conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a)    Adoption of the legal instruments establishing the policy committee and the technical
committee and appointing their members (para 3.3);
(b)    Adoption of the legal instruments creating the CRES (para 3.10);



28
(c)    Appointment of the Project manager and the administrator for the PCU acceptable to
IDA, who would be in post (para 3.41);
(d)    Appointment of an independent auditor under a multi-year contract, acceptable to IDA
(para 4.13).
6.5          As a condition of disbursement for the CFPP, the Government would adopt the
restructuring plan for the CFPP and begin to implement a staffing plan acceptable to IDA (para 3.26).
As a condition of disbursement for the TSF, the Government would establish the TSF and adopt a
procedural manual for the operation of the TSF, satisfactory to IDA, and appoint a technical auditor for
the TSF (para 3.30). As a condition of disbursement for the ENEMP, the Government would (a)
conclude an agreement with FIAP stipulating the contribution of the private sector to the operating costs
of ENEMP; (b) amend and adopt ENEMP's institutional statute providing for representation of FIAP on
the governing board; and (c) adopt a restructuring plan and begin to implement a staff assignment plan
acceptable to IDA.
6.6          Recommendation. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project would
be suitable for an IDA credit of US$12.5 million equivalent on standard IDA terms.



29
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
Basic Data Sheet
GENERAL                                  Mauritania              Sub-Saharan Africa
Land Area (million kn2)                      1.03                       22.2
Per Capita Income (US$)                       500                        635
Total Population
('88 Census)                          1.86m
('91 estimate)                        2.03m                         530
% Urban ('91 estimate)                 50%                         28%
Growth Rate                            2.9%                       2.9%
Under 15                                44%
Population Density                         2/km2
Life Expectancy                                47                         52
Infant Mortality (per thousand live births)   121
Under 5 Mortality                             204                        169
Adult Uteracy Rate                           27%                        49%
Gross Enrollment Ratios (1992)
Primary                                 57%                        79%
(girls)                                 42%                        72%
Secondary                               21%                        27%
(girls)                                 10%                        13%
Tertiary                                 3%                         2%
UWio. rwh. k2ima.d f   an. for 1990 (saw WDM 1992 0Ow    Doa.mu)



30
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
1. Basic Indicators by hutituton and Sub-sector (1992)
Student:      Student:        Recurmnt         Per Stuaen
Admin.                        Teacher       Adtni.            Budget          (UM '000)
iniltution           Teacbers       Anuil.         EnroU.          ratio          ratio      mmU  milion)
Techalci
(1992-93)
CSET                    17             -             100            5.9            -               37.0             370.0
LCO                    23             26             209            9.1            3.0             22.0             105.3
LCEP                   90             53             669            7.4           12.6             70.2             104.9
CEP (NDB)               20            13             210            10.3          11.7             14.1              67.1
DErT                    -             13                             -             -               24.5
ALL             IS0          110           I,IU              7.9           10.3          167.3              141.2
Vocat_a_
(1991-92)
CFPP                    IS                           133            8.9                            23.6             177.4
DFP                                   -               -                                            10.2
ALL               IS            0              133            3.9                            33.3             254.1
Mard.e
(1992-93)
ENEMP                   19            42             105            5.5           2.5              82.6             736.7



31
ANNEXI
Page 3 of 3
2. Govem-ent Expenditures on Technical Education and Vocational Training in FY92 (in UM million)
Salaries       Opeting Cogs          Other 11         Total
Amount           Amho,unt9          Amountf            Amouot
1. Technical Educatioo
CSET                   7.0   19          16.9   46         13.0  35           36.9
LCo                   16.9   77          2.5   11          2.6  12            22.0
LCEP                  35.9   51         15.5   22          18.8  27           70.2
CEP                    7.5   53          3.7   26          2.4  21            13.6
DET                    7.9   32          8.    35           8.   33           21
Sub-total          75.2              47.2              44.8               167.2
2. Vocational Trainin
CFPP                  17.6   75          5.8   24          0.2    1          23.6
DFP                    6      62         L2    12          2a   26            1.
Sub-tol            23.9               7.0               2.9               33.8
3. Maritimo Trainine
ENEMP                 26.6   32         31.0   38          25.0  30           82.6
DFM                    jA    88         Q0    12            _     -
Sub-total          31.0              31.6              25.0               87.6
TOTAL (1+2+3)        130.1              85.8               72.7              288.6
/t including, in particular, felowd*p.



32
ANNEX2
Page I of 6
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINIG SUPPORT PROJECT
Letter of Sector Development Policy'
Madame Director,
Within the framework of its economic and social development objectives, the
Government attaches great priority to the development of its human resources and the generation
of employment.
A. General Objectives
The growth objectives envisaged by our development programs are limited by the
low level of qualifications of the labor force which negatively affects the productivity of both
public and private investments. For example, in the fisheries sector, which makes an significant
contribution to the national economy, the foreign exchange costs of the massive importation of
foreign labor (because of a lack of qualified nationals), considerably reduces its impact on the
balance of payments. In the agricultural sector, the important progress made in the last few years
in developing new agricultural land (thanks to irrigation made possible by the dams of Manantali
and Diama), is endangered by the lack of qualified manpower to operate and maintain agricultural
equipment. Finally, in the small- and medium-enterprise sector, the lack of qualified manpower
results not only in low productivity but also in poor quality and low durability of the products
made, which slows down economic growth.
In spite of the important needs for skilled labor in the three sectors mentioned
above, the supply of vocational training has, up to now, remained limited and of low quality.
It should be noted that the vocational training system has over the past few years increased its
capacity and diversified its training specializations, thanks to our foreign partners such as IDA,
FAD and the Cooperation francaise, but it has not been able to respond adequately to the
demands of the labor market.
Created on an ad hoc basis to respond to specific needs, the vocational training
system depends today on several ministries, including Education, Labor, Fisheries, etcetera. In
addition to the disadvantages associated with this dispersion of responsibility and waste of
resources, the principal fault of the current system lies in the fact that it focuses on the supply
of trained manpower without however having mechanisms to adjust the supply to labor market
demand. The difficulties of placing graduates of the system into jobs are the result of the
entrenched rigidity of the system which is not able to respond to the real demands of the labor
market. In addition, the vulnerability of the system is accentuated by the shortage of national
vocational instructors, and by the quasi-total dependence on Government financing for its
operating costs and on external financing for its investments.
I  Tranlation of the original letter in French.



33
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
B. Implementation Strategy
Convinced that the quality of human resources in the productive sectors is at the
heart of country's development problems, the Government has decided to adopt a strategy which
aims to consolidate the achievements of the system, guarantee its sustainability, and improve its
relevance and its responsiveness to the needs of the labor market.
The major directions for the next four years are linked to the following priority
objectives: first, to improve the quality, relevance and efficiency of the training system and make
it responsive to the needs of the labor market; second, to develop a national capacity for the
training of instructors to assure the sustainability of the system and the replacement of foreign
technical assistance; third, to put in place different financing mechanisms for vocational training;
fourth, to organize the entire system in such a way that it is internally coherent and guarantees
the participation of the professional community at all levels of program design and
implementation.
The technical and vocational training institutions are at the center of the proposed
measures, which aim to improve the quality, relevance and efficiency of training. In the future,
these institutions will be required to operate on the basis of operational plans, developed and
implemented using appropriate methods of planning, needs evaluation, and performance criteria,
to be developed over the next four years. This requires reliable methods to plan the human,
material and financial requirements of training institutions; develop a capacity for evaluating the
efficiency of training programs and provide feedback; strengthen the coordination between
institutions and improve the allocation of public funds; and evaluate performance based on a
number of performance indicators for the system.
In implementing these initiatives, training institutions will receive the assistance
of a Resource Center (Centre de Ressources et de Suivi - CRES), an autonomous institution of
expertise and advice which will be established as early as 1993. The CRES will contain a
documentation center, with satellites in each institution. The 'observatoire d'emploi", to be
established with support from ILO and UNDP, will strengthen the gathering and analysis of labor
market data.
Improvements in the internal efficiency of training institutions, with the objective
to rationalize resource use and maximize results, requires a revision of their statutes, which will
be started immediately, and will result in a common statute for all institutions before the end of
1994. On the other hand, the operational plans of each institution will be implemented on the
basis of a functional budget, developed by specialization and consolidated at the institutional and
national levels.
Measures to encourage the participation of girls in vocational training will be
taken, and specific programs established at the women promotion centers.
A reform of this nature depends on the quality of the instructor. The replacement
of technical assistance by Mauritanian instructors is an urgent need. The development of a
national capacity for the training of instructors will allow the system to take care of its own
human resource needs. The function of the vocational instructor will be validated and confirmed



34
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
by revisions to existing statutes, and the adoption of a new unified legal statute for all instructors.
A system of professional upgrading will be established, with the assistance of CRES, so that
instructors will be able to keep pace with advances in technology and pedagogy.
In order to sustain the system, the financing mechanisms of vocational training
will be reorganized so that the private sector can more effectively participate. To this end, a
study will be conducted to propose appropriate financing modes, particularly through a reform
of the apprentice tax. At the same time, cooperative arrangements with businesses and
enterprises will be developed by the training institutions and incorporated in their operational
plans; this will provide, in part, for auto-financing of training. A flexible financing mechanism,
in the form of a 'support fund' will be established, with the objectives of stimulating competition
between institutions, directing resources to where they are most efficiently used, and promoting
the involvement of employers in decisions concerning training. Experimentation with this new
financing mechanism will allow us, in the longer term, to institutionalize the fund, diversify its
sources of financing (Government, employers, beneficiaries), and establish a stable mechanism
for financing the vocational training system. On the other hand, a number of measures will be
proposed to promote the development of privately-financed training.
The management capacities of the sector departments responsible for vocational
training will be strengthened, particularly in the areas of planning, certification and quality
control.
Finally, to improve the coherence of the system and prepare the conditions for
unification of the system, a coordination system will be set up, consisting of an interministerial
committee responsible for providing advice to the Government on policy issues concerning
technical education and vocational training and coordinating the implementation of the
Government's sector strategy, and an executive directorate to supervise the implementation of the
various project components. The CRES, available as a common service to all parties to the
system, will assist in harmonizing the operations of technical and vocational training institutions.
The proposed revision of the statutes of the institutions and their personnel will help improve the
coherence of the system.
Follow-up of implementation of this strategy will be monitored during the entire
project period, based on a set of performance criteria, as defined in the action plan attached to
this letter. Also attached is a table of performance indicators which will provide the basis for
evaluating the implementation of the strategy, and which will be updated each year.
Sincerely yours,
Nouakchott, May 26, 1993
Signed by:
S.E. Mohamed Ould Michel                 S.E. Abdallahi Ould Abdi
Minister of Plan                         Minister of Fisheries and
Maritime Economy
S.E. Sghair Ould M'Bareck                S.E. Moktar Ould Haye
Minister of National Education           Minister of Labor



Action Plan 1994-1997
Objectives                                        Action Plan                                    Performance Criteria
- Improve training quality and relevance            - Creation of a resource and follow-up center      - internal efficiency;
(CRES).                                          - external efficiency.
- Implementation of a graduate follow up system at
each institutional level.                          The targets established by the institutions in their
- Organization  of employment inquiries  by           respective development plans are reained as
professional field.                                 indieatos of the achievement of objectives and
- hsuallation of an employment referral system by     relevance. Thcse criria are updated with the
the pedagogical teams of each subsectorand with    support of CRES in light of studies to be
the participation of professional groups.           undertaken one year after the start of the project.
- In-service instructor training by the CSET.
- Impklmentation of an efficient student orientation  Institution  Interal          E1eral
and seection systan.                               CSET          90%             100%
* Strengthening  of didactic  and  pedagogical       LCET Nkt       80%             80%
materials through the creation of a documentation  CEP Nkb       85%             70%
center at the CRES, with sateites in each          LCo           70%             80%
instution.                                         CEP Boghd    define in 6/94    define 6194
- Devepment of a needs and performancer
asessment of training institutions.                CFPP          90%             70%              LIn
- Management and planning support.                   CFPR           define in 3/94    define in 3/94
- Effective participation of professional groups at
all levels of training design and implementation.  ENEMP         85%             90%
- Contruction  of  a  maitime   chool  at
Nouadhbou.
- Promote girls' acoess to education.
- Improve efficiency                                - Modify existing  tutes in training intutions.    - Unit cost for training, by tudent and subsector.
- Implement an appropriate  inuntenne system.      - Hourly training cost.
- Computerization of mangement.                    - Utilization rate of faciliies, equipment and
- Training  for  administrative  supervisory         personnel.
personnel.
Introduction of operational budgeting mmdetos at  The evahlution and follow up inicators of the level
institutional level,                             of achievement of these objectives will be quantified
in June 1994 based on recommendations by the
CRES in fight of tudies done in 19944.
x
0"



Objectives                                         Action Plan                                   Perfornance Criteia
- Diversify financing ources                        - Study on the reform of the apprentice tax and    - Levl of private sector financing:
diversification of financing aimed at promoting
effective participation of the private sector.     At the end of the project, private sector financing
- Implemenaion of an incentive program  for          should exceed 20%.
private education.
- Development of autofinancing activities in the   - Shipowner paruicipation  in the financing of
context of institutional plans.                    maritime training in the fiseie sector.
- Implementation of a financing mechanism in the
form of support funds to support the instiutional
plans in the achievement of their performance
objectives.
- Strengthen  the  national  instructor  trauning   - Strengthen the systean's capacity for human      - The number of teache tr ined and appointed.
capacity.                                          resource development with respect to replacing     - The rate of Mauritanization of the personnel
foreign technical assistance.                      trained:
- Training of a limited number of instructor trainers
for technical education and vocational training.   The objectives established in the institutional plan  0
foresee a Maurhanization rate of 100% over the
course of the project, except at CSET for which
the rate will be 60%.
- Strengthen the system's coherence                 - Study for the implementation of an adequate      - The intmniserial policy committee and the
institutional framework.                           Technical Committee are operative prior to credit
- Creation of an interministerial policy committee   effectiveness.
for the ETFP strategy.                            - The statutes will be adopted and put into effect
- Creation of a Technical Committee for the          prior to October 1994.
coordination and follow-up of implementation of   - The CRES will be created prior to credit
the institutional plans, with the participation    effectiveness.
of employers and professional groups.            - The system is unified at the completion of the
- Creation of a resource and follow up center to     project.
serve all ETFP institutions.
- Reform instructors' statutes.
- Reform institutional statutes.
m z
(D m
x
Ln
0
(O



37
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
Performance Indicators
Indicators                 1993-94    1994-95    1995-96    1996-97    1997-98
1. Number of student teachers recruited      25         25          25         25         25
2. Percentage of national instructors:
TE                               45%         50%        60%        70%         80%
VT                               70%         80%        90%        100%       100%
MT                               70%        70%         80%         90%        90%
3. Ratio of student/instructors:
TE                                8:1        12:1       13:1        14:1       15:1
VT                                9:1        14:1       16:1        18:1       20:1
MT                                6:1        9:1        11:1        13:1       15:1
4. Utilization rate of technical
teaching space:
TE                               50%        60%         70%        80%         80%
VT                               50%        50%         70%        90%         90%
MT                                            5/        70%        80%         80%
5. Utilization rate of instructors
(hours of student contact per week):
TE I/                             18                                            24
VT .1/                            18                                            30
MT I/                             18                                            24
6. Unit costs 1/_/                           3/                                            3/
7. Graduation rate:
TE                               65%         70%        75%        80%         80%
VT I/                             2/                                            3/
MT J/                             2/                                            3/
8. Placement of graduates                    _/         2/
9. Number of projects financed by            10         20          30         20
the Support Fund
amount committed (in million UM)2/      5 m        10 m        15 m       10 m
TE: Technical Education
VT: Vocational Training
MT: Maritime Training
1/ targets for intermediary years to be agreed upon during project launch seminar (October 1993).
_/ in constant Ouguiya, 1993 basis.
2/ to correct during first annual review (September 1994).
4/ targets to be established following completion in June 1993 of the ongoing study on graduates of training institutions.
5/ located in temporary facilities.



COORDINATION STRUCTURE
|Comite de Pilotege 
M l  finistrer         UitietEre              CGEU
p  Education                              et Travait ~~~~~~~~~Eonini Marit.             Emptoyers
CEPU   Col lag. d'Enseignment Professiam,et de Uoghd                                  _____a Set upq under the Project/
CEPH   Cotigep d'Enseignement ProftssionneL de NoLuadtibou                                                     Informa( Linkage
CFPP  *Centre de Formation et de Perfectionniement Professiomel L                                     Existing tinkage
CFPUt   Centre de Formtion et de PerfectiFnoemnt RPgional
CRES  *Centre de Ressources at de Suivi
CSET a Centre Sup6rfewr de LIEns.igne.mnt Technique
DET a Direction de ILEnseignement Technique
DFN a Direction de La Formation Maritime
DFP   a Direction de La Formation Professionnwie lle
ENEIP * EcoLe Nationate d'Erneignement Maritime at de P&che                                                                                 Q 
LCo   a  Lyc&  Camerciat (Nouakchott) 
PCEP   *  Project Coordination Unit          d
0
CEPU  * CollEsc d En eigne ent Profescionn l de Nouadhibou                  Infor_l linkege~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-
CFPP  * C ntre d  For_tlon et de Perfectionnenent Professionnel  * Existin linkege~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-



39                                       S
ANNEX4
Page 1 of 4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
TECBHICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
Technical Teacher Training
1.           Objectives. The objectives of the technical teacher training (l) program for the four-year
period 1994-1997 are to (a) in the short term, train about 100 teaching staff to replace departing foreigners,
fill existing vacancies, and provide for system expansion: and (b) in the longer term, establish a permanent
local capacity for technical teacher training and upgrading. Projected training requirements are given in Table
1 and Chart 1 to this Annex.
2.           Structure of the Profram. Trainee teachers would be recruited on a competitive basis from
the lycees at the level of technician (BT) or from the CSET at the level of higher technician (BTS). Training
programs would be of two years duration for holders of the BTS qualification, and four years for graduates
with a Bac or BT diploma. The TTT course would be modular in design, with five basic components: (i) a
technical skilis development program, conducted at the CSET/LCEP/LCO complex; (ii) short periods of
practical experience with local industry or business during vacations; (iii) six months of supervised industrial
attachment for practical skills development, conducted locally whenever possible, and overseas when
necessary; (d) a pedagogical training program; and (e) training in human relations. All programs would be
conducted by CSET staff, in existing facilities at the CSET/LCEP complex for technical subjects and the LCO
for commercial subjects. The structure of the TIT program is given in Chart 2 to this Annex.
3.           Responsibility for ImDlementation. The 'TTT program would be carried out by the teacher
training department of the CSET, with professional support and backstopping of the CRES. CSET would,
in consultation with the CRES, be responsible for all aspects of the program, including identifying and
selecting TTT candidates; developing the curricula and preparing instructional materials; conducting all
training; identifying, organizing and supervising practical attachments to local, regional or overseas industries;
acquiring and installing pedagogical equipment; promoting and maintaining effective contacts with local
industry and business; and assuring quality control of the program.
4.            ExRete Outcomes. At the end of the four-year project period 1994-1997, the following
results would be achieved: (i) about 100 technical teachers for lycees and colleges would be produced,
including the replacement of 61 non-Mauritanian staff (technical assistance and staff on local contract); (ii)
training modules, procedures and evaluation criteria would be developed and tested; (iii) training standards,
certification and methodology would be developed and documented; (iv) relations with training institutions
and employers would be developed and established; (v) a national capacity for in-service training and
upgrading of technical teachers would be established.
5.           Proieet Suppo. To assist the CSET in developing this capacity, the project would finance
eight months of consultant services to assist in program design and implementation; 60 fellowships for
practical industrial training in Europe and the Mahgreb; workshop, laboratory and pedagogical equipment to
improve existing facilities at CSET; local staff training costs; and operational support costs. In addition,
France would, under its ongoing technical assistance program, finance a technical teacher training specialist
for four years to establish the program.



40                                ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
Table 1: Composition of Teachers in Technical Education (1992-1997)
1992                Secondary Technical Schools         CSET          TOTAL
Tech. Teachers    Other Teachers
National               26                 40              4             70
Local Contract         14                 10               0             24
French TA              43                 0               13            56
Total                  83                S5               17            150
Advisors                4                                  1             5
(French)        _
1997                Secondary Technical Schools         CSET          TOTAL
Tech. Teachers    Other Teachers
National               143                50              7             200
Local Contract          0                 0                0             0
French TA               9                 0               10             19
Total                  154                50              17            219
Advisors                5                                                6
(French)
Change in Teachers in Technical Education (1992 to 1997)
1997                Secondary Technical Schools         CSET          TOTAL
Tech. Teachers    Other Teachers
National              +117               +10              +3           +130
Local Contract         (14)              (10)              0            (24)
French TA              (34)               0               (3)           (37)
Total                  +69                 0               0            +69
Advisors               + 1                                 0            + 1
(French)



MIMOTERE DE LEOUCATUH NATINAL.E                                                      Chart  I                                                                             Diesdme. Aiv  jou Om   10112
DINC-CION DE LEM1EI1I11ENT TECHNKIO
EVOLUTION DES BESOINS EN P.E.T. DANS LES ETADUSSEMENTS DE L'ETP EN 1992-1997
(HORS  CSET)__                               _    _   _   _   _     __    _   _   _   _   _     __    _     _   _   _   _   _
I I                   1902-03                     1904                         1904.05                      I905-IS                     1906-7
EFFECTIF          SiIuaion sauds              Situalin aduab               Situatin aus#.              Sduiton acdustis             Situaion adusfia
SPECIALffES ENSEIGNEES             DSOI CELCCEP CEP                 TOTA LCEP LYC CEP CEP        T    LTA CE  L4C CEP CEPI   TOTA LCEF LYC C~EP C~EP      TO   LCE. LYGC .EP 3FP        TOTAL
_______________________________11991-0            N     DTNB BOG    I    NKTCO  NDOB OG         I    NKT C    NDO BOG              NKT COM NOB BOG             NKT0  NDB BOG
MAINTENANCE dsSYSTEMES MECAMIOUES (CONS (a)    30    101             2   0         21  21        3   0         24  22       13   2          27  22         3   3        28  22         3   3          28
STRUCTURES METALLIOUES                       (b)     7     7             0         7   7         2 0           0   7          4   2         13  -7         4   4        lB   7         4   4          Is
ELECTROTECHNIOUE(ST.-CUM)                    (c)    20    II1        4   0         1s  I I       5   0         16  12  __ 6                 18 j12         6            lB  12         6               la
MAINTENANCE MOTEUtS ET ORGANES AUTO ET EN((d)       is    tO         4   0         1 4   1 4     5 0           ¶0 195i        6   4         25  16         6   8        30  1 6        6   8          30
CARROSSEIdE -PEINTUAtE AUTOMDBILE                    0     0         0   0         0   2         1   0          3   4   -     2             6   4          2             6   4         2               6
OUJVRAGES BOIS                                       a     0         I   0         1   2         2   0          4   4         2             a   4          2             a   4         2               6
MACONNiEOE GOS CEUVRE.PT.IS                 (e)      3     0        -1   0         1   4         3   0         7   8          4             12  8          4             12  8         4              12-
GENIECIVL OESSINBATIWNT                              8     a         I   0         0   0         2   0         1 110          2             12 10          2            12 10          2              12
MARAICHAGEET ARBORICUI.UE                            0                   0         0                  0        0                  2         2                  4         4                  4          4
GESTION ET COMPTABI___TE   ___________________10                                                                                                     la                 10        10                  1
SECFIETA___AT_BUREAU_T_IUE______9_________13_13                                                                                                      13                 13        13                  1
TOTAUX                              102~~lO  881I1s                 63 0182 0                 III112       23810           144  33n233810               1546$3232          015
.a'-:                          ~~~~~~~~109344               1993-944                                   191445168.08                               196647
CRUM -                                   HiPR1SIO-DEinSTEfI"in    1:54r
aSm. -   pps6Mn sal g.uu6es kmpbdmMft WmAli  Iiiii tm   dfl~  smtlem                           "u Is conludkm udainiqus
bSow -of app.Iftn wni impeup. In Widelle emoaiw  deo  diawilremus n*W4*. miami RNAj  ~uii desaum    m6ens-.mso             diudkdu   a
dSow imils appWmIn sMaw eusu6s km Wildmilli m6m.il  fmls.. omam  e U d      at I gou  awmsn Es v&dmims .sbkes  des engkt de T. de mulm
qukasim ks comdi do m  wonu  mat *s    Wd qmI wdimairdermsr mdide s       h9droiojmmrmtdqmu
Smus mum appsIomn mam rspeupdss las op&dmmbi sgaml. mmi.mmbmu.huiims mau
.5-3
o
I-t



ANNEX 4
42                              Page 4 of 4
Chart 2:   Plan de formation des formateurs
CURSUS DE FORMATION
o            \
AFFECTATION              \
SITUATION     0
PROFESS(ONNELLE r
FORMATION A                      F O R O
46me Anr6e              STAEsL
~~'AUCSET'
INme Anne  EeN ENTREP9SSEE
Autres Annldme _  
Empioi-              anstarisssnOr
AOSTORMATION
2.me AnndeeAU -.                  ..US
.4~~~~~~~U
Empioi~~~~Stg snrsri entrabep6sbentspissatn  
21ere Ann6ee  
AUCS BCOU EQUIVALIENTS



43                                 ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
CENTRE DE RESSOURCES ET DE SUIVI
DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT TECHNIQUE ET DE LA FORMATION PROFESSIONNELLE
1. MISSIONS DU CRES
Place sous la tutelle du Directoire, le CRES est une structure d exprtis et de consedl qui apporte un appui
aux institutions de formation et fournit aux instances de pilotage les resultats d'etudes et de recherches dans les
domaines suivants:
- emploi et qualifications
- Ing6nririe de formation at ingnlrieri p6dagogilque
- 6valuation et suivi
- svolution et dbveloppoment dos ressources humaines ot des comp6tences
Outil de promotion du d6veloppoment, il a vocation de vulganser et diffuser l'informabion et la connaissance
dans les domaines des sciences et des techniques
Interlace dynamique entre le systsmo de formation et les milieux professionnels (cf. schema
joint), p6le de ressources et de compbtences, le CRES *st chargb de plusiours missions
1.1. Analyse des besoins de formation, de lemploi ot des qualifications
Son r6le est igi de favoriser l'adequation formation- emploi.
Pour cela, le Centre recueille les informations, identifie les besoins, les emplois et les qualifications. blabore los
r6f6rentiels d'emploi et la monographie des metiers. foumit des conseils en matiere de carte scolaire, recommande les
formations et les corrections (flux, finalites).
Lanalyse de lempioi sattachera A difflrencier les secteurs modemes (privb et public) et les secteurs informel et
rural.
1.2. Ingenierie de la formation
Dans ce cadre, Ie CRES coordonne lelaborabon des rbflrentiels et des modules de formaton. definit les modes
devaluation de la formation et des formbs, lee reftrentiels de certification, les 6quipements, los methodes
pbdagogiques et les moyens didactiques. les caractbristiques des locaux, les competences requises et identfife lee
partenaires potentiels.
11 soutent la politique de recherche de la qualitN des institutions de formation par le dbveloppement des
competences et I'amblioration des equipements intemes A l Enseignement Technique et ia Formation Protessionnelle. A
ce ttre il participe A lvaluation des formateurs et personnels et con4oit et recommande leur tormation et leur
perlectionnement. II btablit et gere le schema directeur des ressources humaines.
1.3. Evaluation
Dans ce domaine, le Centre bvalue la pertinence, la coherence, 1efficacdt, Ilefflcience des projets de formaion.
11 congoit les outis et definit les criteres d4valuation inteme du systbme et des 6tablissements.
11 con9oit los methodologies et effectue 1 valuation exteme.
1.4. Appul aux btablissoments
Dans tous ses domaines de competences. le Centre apporte un soutien aux etablissements et centres de formaton
afin d btablir un vbritable partenanat entre les institutions de formaton et les employeurs.
Ce partnnanat devrait pouvoir deboucher A moyen terms sur une participation financiere des entreprises au profit
des insttutions de formation.
Son r6le, dans une fonction de coordination, set egalement de favoriser lee relations entre les divers agents
economiques (entreprises, organismes professionnels (CGEM, UTM.    ssociations protessionnelles),
administrations ..) et les Atablissements de formation qui so distinguent entre eux par la nature et lee niveaux de
formation mais qui doivent mener dans le cadre de ces relatons des activit6s similaires ou identiques.
Le terme 'relations' est A prendre igi dans un sens tres large: recherche de stages, visites d'entrepnses, formation
altem6e, actions formation-emploi, interventon de probessionnels dans la formation, manifestations de sensibilisabon A
la vie professionnelle, intervention des formateurs en entreprises, etc...
10 Nlars 1993



44
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
1.S. Promotion du d6volopp.ment
Le Centre gere et diffuse l'informabon et la connaissance. Cola conceme
- les ressources communes centralisees au Centre par souci de rentabilt et d4conomie qui sont mises A la
disposition des milieux professionnels et des formateurs (bibliographie et documentation techniques, capital
p6dagogique, r6sutats de la recherche-d6veloppement, expertise acquise par los prestations ...),
- les ressources extemes au systbmr auxquelles il pout 6tre fait appol pour do la formabon (professionnels
consultants, entreprises et lieux de stages, organismes intomationaux,... );
- la communication avec les autres sources d'information (banques de donn6es, organismes 6trangers,...)
Lieu de rencontres et d'changes, le Centre anime et promouvoit la formation et [as techniques (il organise
s6minaires et colloques, diffuse l'information technique, assure Ia promotion et la vulgarisation des technologies,
favonse l'closion d'assodabons professionnelles... ).
Pour etHectuer ses missions, le Centre dispose d'un effectif reduit en ressources humaines mais il s'appuie, pour la
mise en oeuvre de ses programmes, sur le potentiel de competences mobilisables dans et hors des institutions de
formation.
2. ORGANISATION DU CRES
Le 'Directoire' d6finira les orentabons polibques et strat6giques et fixera lee priorit6s pour la r6alisation des
programrnes du CRES
Le Centre de Ressources et de Suivi sera temporairement rattache au CSET.qui est Ie soul etablissement qui, par
son statut d4tablissement public ayant une autonomie financiere et une personnalite morale, dispose dans un premier
temps d'une souplesse de gestion suffisante pour conduire et realiser los missions qui sont confi6es au Centre de
Ressources. 11 pourra par ailleurs plus facilement mobiliser le potentiel d'assistance technique important et expdnment6
affect4 au CSET pendant la duree du projet.
Ses activit6s sont coordonn6es par le Directeur du CSET assist6 par le Conseiller technique principal, chef de
projet.
Un arret6 portant organisabon du CRES sera signe par les Ministres concemes par lonseignement technique et la
formation professionnelle, avant le 30 septemb re 1993.
L'organisation definitive du CRES sera etablie en deux phe..
- Une premlire phase de mise en place des 4 cellules operationnelles et d'expdrimentation de son mode de
fonctionnement.
11 s'agira id
- de doter le Centre des moyens necessaires au tonctionnement des cellules operationnelles et de lancer les
op6rations et les activites d6finies dans le projet;
- d'affecter les ressources humaines (personnel d'assistance technique et personnel national);
- d'tablir la programmation des activit6s, de fixer les priorit6s, Ws 6cheances at les r6sultats et d'en d6finir
les criteres d'valuation
- de fixer les rOles et les missions du personel (permanent et non permanent) travaillant pour le Centre;
- de r6aliser les activites prloritaires prevues dans le cadre do ses missions et d'en analyser les premiers
resultats
Durant cette phase d'exp6rimentation, une proc6dure d4valuation sea mrone pour preparer la structuration
d6finitive du Centre et apporter leas amnagements correctifs A son mode dorganisation. Cette 6valuation sera
affectu6e h Ia demande du 'Directoire' par une expertise exterieure.
Pendant cone periode, le Centre de ressources et de suivi, rattach6 au CSET, fonctonnera toutefois en geston
s6paree et disposera d'un compte de gesbon propre.
Cott premiere phase exprinmentale n'oxc6dera pas deux annees.
10 Mars 1993



4 5                                 ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 4
- La d*uxlime phaae, aprs lNvaluation, consistera A mettre en oeuvre les remediations a apporter au
tonctionnamenrt du Cantra *t pormttra Iladoption at la miss en place de l'organigramme (structures fonctionnelles,
responsabilit6s, statut autonome).
La changerrent do tutallo no pourra intervenir quavec laccord des bailleurs de fonds.
Cotte damibre phase devrait assurer, au terms du projet, ia perennite du mode de fonctionnement lid aux missions
du CRES.
3. PROGRAMMATION   DES  ACTIVITES
Activites                      1993-94        1994-95        1995-96        1996-97
to I0  4  7 J10 7    4       10  1  4       10  1  4 7
Construction du batiment             _
Commande et installation des 6quipements
Affectation du personnel AT                                   ,
Affectation du personnel national                            I
Formation du personnel natiottal    ;                                 __j__
Demarrage des activites du CRET
Evaluatio,_
Ddveloppement des activitds                ,_.
Nfisc en place de l'organigramme
Evaluation                                   I
,                                      !as  193       I              ,
10 MIars 1993



46
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 4
SYSTEME D'ENSEIGNEMENT TECHNIQUE ET DE FORMATION PROFESSIONNELLE
INTERFACE                                  0                          | ENfVtONNEPENT ECONOMQUE
INTERFACE                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~(tonmeI  at informol)
- nmch6 de remPti
C  are   nst       nneentrptn -    e~iUPUS                                              rtiWtant
Organes panta,res de consultat,on                                               o I
et de decision. (Com,te de pilotage)                                          - Mfuis    de rEEipIo
Legislation (mode de fonctionnement)            t
SYSTEME  EDUCATIF GENERAL
L6sation tiscale.
Potentil  ressourees
\/ Cadret  s ruc urel 
Ressources humaines
matenetles        Organes d'mnvestsatrons. 
inaDnci6res       Organes d' aIuyse etede                                                    V
tra,tement des informations
Exprtie (rgaistion,      Organe d'etude et d',NAnienle
\   metodes  rocedres)    /  de tormat,on.
\                 /      do~~~~~~cumt   d'information et de
\   orgatAne de pnospectie et coe
e                               gestion de t'adee /
i          \                                   /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONCAEVAUTO
Orngane 66,nilluat,on exte r n ........... .XTRN .. .........
DE  REALISATION  DES  PROJETS                 FONCTION  DE _D
fORfSANES f-T STRUCTURES                 /\                                   
DE  REALISATXtN   DES  PROJETS/               FOCINGSON   ~
(*tabli5siementsf t   nrsd   emat;e    des ressources humaines
-des moyens
s ectoriels                           (maintenance des iquipements)
*petr niiotux
-ouvners, empoy6s, artisans        
-agentS de maitrise                          FONTO        'DAGOGtU
-agtents de maitnse sup                  -gestion des *ctivitts p6Cdagogique
per rftture)>                                      
f ormation A In carte/-
f ormation nmDale,                       
-prestations: assistance, consedl      FON*CTtON DE FtOC>
mise i dispos,tionde l'ouOIl
de production e....                     station  pour le  entrap
EU£VES  DPO4. Er tAMM SEf:gsMS::. 
11. ns  rq I QIYA 



47
ANNEX 6
Page I of 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
Plan d'Action du CFPP
1. Rdactiver les organes de concertation
(i) Adoption du projet de decret nommant le President et les     Avril/Mai 1993
membres du Conseil d'Administration.
(ii) Reunion du Conseil d'Administration du CFPP.               Juin 1993
(iii) Constitution du Comit6 Pedagogique du CFPP.                Existe
(iv) Elaboration d'une convention avec la Confederation          Projet - Juin 1993
Generale des Employeurs de Mauritanie (CGEM).
(v) Etablissement de convention de partenariat/formation         Projet - Juin 1993
comprenant la definition des objectifs, des programmes,
le codt de la formation, ainsi que la repartition des
charges recurrentes.
2. Renforcer la structure de gestion et de fonctionnement du CFPP
(i) Adoption du reglement interieur du CFPP compte tenu de       Projet - Juin 1993
ses nouvelles attributions.
(ii) Creation d'une unite d'ingenierie pedagogique. Au titre     Octobre 1993
du renforcement du potentiel d'intervention du CFPP,
l'unite d'ingenierie pedagogique sera composee des quatre
cadres de formation superieure constituant le personnel
d'encadrement du CFPP qui s'appuyeront sur une expertise
de l'Assistance Technique Tunisienne et celle du Centre
de Ressources et de Suivi de l'Enseignement (CRES).
3. Former et gerfectionner le personnel du CFPP
(i) Audit du personnel du CFPP (44) et des Centres Regionaux (8).  En cours
(ii) Plan de restructuration du personnel administratif et       Octobre 1993
pedagogique CFPP/CFPR avec les implications financieres et
les procedures.
(iii) Soumission d'un plan de formation du personnel d'encadrement  Novembre
et du personnel formateurs.                                  1993
(iv) Mise en oeuvre du plan de restructuration et de personnel  Janvier 1994



48
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
D=
4. Remise en etat de l'infrastructure
(i) Audit de l'infrastructure du CFPP                                Mai 1993
(ii) Remise en etat.                                                 Juillet 1993
5. Remise en etat des fluipements
(i) Audit des equipements du CFPP (12 sections).                     Juin 1993
(ii) Programme de consolidation des equipements (exploitation        Janvier 1994
des resultats audit equipement).
6. Collecte des donnees sur les besoins en formation
(i) Enquete r6alis6e aupres des entreprises avec I'aide
de la CGEM.                                                      Janvier 1994
(ii) Enquete realisee par le CFPP avec le CRES dans les PME          Janvier 1994
du secteur informel.
(iii) Diagnostic des besoins en formation continue et                Septembre'94
perfectionnement des cadres moyens et agents de mattrise
du secteur structure.
(iv) Determination des sections I maintenir/developper/              Septembre'94
fermer/ouvrir en fonction des enquetes realisees precedemment.
7. Relance des activites du CFPP
(i) Demarrage de la formation initiale dans trois sections           Septembre'93
(mecanique auto, electricite batiment, bureautique) I partir
des demandes des entreprises et des demandes directes.
8. Actions en Direction du Secteur Formel                               Janvier 1994
(i)  Mise en oeuvre des accords de Partenariat/Formation passes par
le CFPP avec les differents membres de la CGEM.
(ii) Determination des besoins de formation dans le cadre des accords
CFPP-CGEM, des cofts de la formation et de la repartition de la
prise en charge.
(iii) Elaboration de modules de formation et de perfectionnement des
cadres moyens et agents de mattrise du secteur structure.
(iv) Organisation de cycles de recyclage et de perfectionnement en
direction des entreprises.



49
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
Date
9. Actions Dirigees vers le Secteur Informel                        Septembre 1994
(i) Elaboration de support at outils pddagogiques pour le montage
d'actions pilotes en apprentissage par l'unitd d'ingdnierie
p6dagoglque avec I'appui du CRES.
(ii) Lancement de ces actions pilotes en apprentissage dans les
spdcialites retenues.



50
ANNEX7
Page 1 of 21
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
Le Fonds d'Appui pilot b la Formation Finance par l'IDA
1. Descriptio
Le Foods d'appui amx activites de formation finance par l'IDA (FAAF pour le distinguer
de celui finance par la Coop6ration franoaise pour appuyer les projets d'6tablissement) sera utilis6 pour
financer des projets pilotes de formation destines au personnel en activit6, surtout dans le secteur informel
mais aussi moderne, dans le but d'am6liorer lea competences au niveau des chefs d'entreprises, ouvriers
et apprentis, et de dEvelopper des competences en matibre de pr6paration et mise en oeuvre de petits
projets. Le contenu du manuel de procEdures qui figure dans cette annexe est r6sum6 ci-apres.
I. Qbieti
i)    promouvoir et am6liorer les comp6tences techniques et commerciales des travailleurs et
des petites entreprises du secteur informel.
(ii)   promouvoir la cooperation entre les institutions de formation et les employeurs.
(iii)  procurer aux dipl6mds du systbme de formation technique et professionnelle (EFTP) une
experience en matiere de preparation, exEcution et suivi de micro-r6alisations.
M1. Actions 51igibles
Ce projets pilotes de formation concerneront, en particulier, le CFPP avec ses quatre
centres regionaux qui auront baoin de jouer un role 'pro-actif" pour identifier les groupes cible et les
aider I prEparer des propositions de projet. Los projets de formation pourront aussi etro pr6par6s
directement par des employeurs, employes et autres groupes concernds par des besoins de formation
spdcifiques ne pouvant pas &re satisfaits par les programmes r6guliers des etablissements de formation.
De plus, certains etudiants du systeme de formation pourront y trouver la possibilite de preparer et
soumettre des propositions de formation visant au soutien ou I la promotion de micro-entreprises.
Parmi les operations pilotes qui seront eligibles au soutien du FAAF, la priorite devra
ftre donnee a:
- fournir des complements de formation I des apprentis en poste pour renforcer leurs
aptitudes pratiques. Cela exige que le CFPP et les centres regionaux identifient ces
baoins de formation en utilisant los reseaux de contacts informels actuels et definissent
un calendrior flexible des activites de formation et des autres activites de soutien, en
utiisant, le plus souvent, des modules de formation de courte duree "a la carte".



51
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 21
- am6liorer la connaissance technique et les comp6tences des "mattres d'apprentis" (i.e.,
ceux qui les emploient), notamment dans le domaine des nouvelles technologia et
methodes et des techniques ameliorees, dans la perspective d'une d6-multiplication des
connaissances acquises.
- fournir aux apprentis, ouvriers et patrons du secteur informel des outils I caractere
p6dagogique, notamment en preparant et developpant des materiaux de formation simples,
des conseils techniques, etc...
- procurer une formation 'I la carte" pour les employes du secteur moderne, I la requ&te
des employeurs et avec leur participation financiere, dans des domaines qui ne sont pas
disponibles dans les programmes r6guliers de formation.
-  fournir des appuis de formation et de soutien a la preparation de projets d6veloppant de
micro-realisations, surtout dans le secteur informel; priorite sera donnee aux besoins de
formation des femmes productives.
- permettre aux etablissements de formation d'effectuer des enqutes ponctuelles pour leur
permettre d'identifier les besoins de formation dans leur environnement professionnel
imm6diat.
IV. M6thodologie
Des propositions pourront etre initi6es par des associations et autres groupements, surtout
dans le secteur informel, et par des employeurs des secteurs prive et public. Elles seront, en general,
preparees par ou avec l'assistance du personnel des institutions de formation. Dans ce contexte, le
Directeur du CFPP aura un rOle clef I jouer pour dynamiser la mise en place du FAAF. Une fois
adoptees par le groupe initiateur et l'instructeur-formateur qui les supervise, les propositions seront
soumises au Centre de ressources et de suivi du systbme de formation (localise au CSET) pour examen
et visa sur les aspects concernant la conformite aux objectifs du FAAF, I'eligibilite aux critbres de
soumission, et la validite technique et financibre.
Le dossier d'une requete d'appui du FAAF devra ere present6 en tenant compte des
elements suivants Oa structure et les conditions de presentation du dossier seront decrites dans un mnuel
de procedures, finalise I la negociation du Credit IDA):
I.    Identification du groupe cible,
2.    Definition et justification des besoins de formation,
3.    Contenu du programme de formation proposee,
4.    Calendrier de mise en oeuvre,
5.    Table de coOts detailles,
6.    Plan des opdrations,
7.    Evaluation des resultats,
B.    Suivi possible de la proposition.



52
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 21
V. Financement
Le FAAF sera etabli dans un compte bancaire d'une banque commerciale de Nouakchott,
avec une contribution initiale de l'IDA de 100.000 dollars EU. Le reapprovisionnement du FAAF sera
lid I une utilisation satisfaisante des ressources du FAAF jusqu'a un montant de 400.000 dollars EU.
La contribution du FAAF sur ressources IDA pour les projets approuves se fera sur la
base de 100% des coats. La contribution I fournir par les groupes initiateurs devra s'effectuer en nature
selon un schema I proposer par le groupe initiateur.
VI. Mecanismes d'approbation
Les requetes pour un appui du FAAF devront correspondre I de petites operations I
caractere pilote qui, en moyenne, ne devront pas exceder 500.000 UM et devront rester inferieures
I un million d'UM. Les criteres d'eligibillte ont ete finalises & la negociation du Credit IDA. Les
entreprises auront une taille en personnel inferieure a 20 personnes. Les propositions seront soumises
au Centre de ressources et de suivi par le groupe initiateur pour une evaluation technique et financiere,
et puis transmises au Directoire, charge de piloter le Projet d'appui sur financement IDA.
Les requetes au FAAF seront examinees pour approbation par cinq des membres
permanents du Directoire (ou leurs representants dement mandates): les trois Directeurs de l'enseignement
technique et des formations professionnelle et maritime, le Secretaire general de la CGEM et un autre
representant du secteur prive connu pour ses competences dans le domaine de la formation. Le Directeur
du Bureau du Projet IDA participera I leurs deliberations en tant qu" observateur, ainsi qu'un membre
du Centre de ressources et de suivi.
Dans le but de mettre en place des procedures fiables et de garantir que les objectifs
gendraux du FAAF sont respectds, les quatre premieres requetes soumises au financement du FAAF
seront transmises I l'IDA pour avis. Par la suite, les requ6tes d'un montant inferieur & 500.000 UM
pourront etre approuvees directemnent; celles d'un montant superieur & 500.000 UM devront faire
l'objet d'un accord prealable de l'IIDA. Les requetes devront &tre approuv6es par au moins trols
des cinq membres du Directoire, qui autorisent l'acces au financement du FAAF. Toutes les requtes
feront l'objet d'une evaluation a posteriori de l'IDA. Une evaluation globale du fonctionnement du
FAAF sera effectuee conjointement entre l'IDA et le Gouvernement mauritanien a l'occasion des missions
de consultation annuelles prevues par l'Accord de credit, sur la base d'un rapport d'audit technique
prepare par un auditeur externe.
VII. Deboursements
Les deboursements et la comptabilite du FAAF seront effectues par le Bureau du Projet
IDA, en tant que gestionnaire du compte bancaire du FAAF et selon des procedures acceptables par
l'IDA, et qui ont deja ete utilisees pendant le projet Education III. Le FAAF sera audite conformement
aux procedures de l'IDA.



53
ANNEX 7
Page 4of21
MANUEL DE PROCEDURES
I. Objectifs du Fonds
Los objectifs specifiques du Fonds d'appui aux actions de formation sont les suivants:
1)    promouvoir 1'int6rh pour une bonne fbrmation technique et de gestion dans les micro,
petites et moyennes entreprise, surtout du secteur informel et celles gerees par des
femmes,
2)    faciliter l'integration des dipl6m6s du systeme EFTP au marche de l'emploi, notamment
par la creation de microentreprises, individuelles ou en groupe,
3)     demontrer la possibilite d'elargir le champ d'application des programmes de formation
et mettre au point des procEdures de participation des entrepreneurs qui pourraient &tre
perennisees dans les institutions nationales de formation,
4)     renforcer la pertinence, la qualite, et I'efficacitE des institutions de formation et du corps
de formateurs nationaux, notamment en los aidant I developper des enquhtes de suivi des
dipl6mes et aupres des entreprises,
5)     concilier une limitation des coats, une visibilite de la structure d'appui aux programmes
de formation, et une efficacite mesurable des modalites d'execution,
6)     mettre en oeuvre des procedures transparentes et contr6lables mais neanmoins simplifiees,
expeditives, et flexibles pour identifier et evaluer les operations k executer, passer les
contrats et assister los entreprises.
II. PrinciDes de Reference
Les personnes habilit6es k evaluer les requetes au Fonds, sont constituees par le
personnel du Centre de ressources et de suivi (CRES) ou les personnos ressources ou experts que le
CRES approuvera. Cellos habilitees k decider de l'utilisation des ressources du Fonds sont celles
designees comme membres du Directoire de gestion du fonds. Celles appelees a gerer l'utilisation des
ressources du Fonds sont constitueo en une Cellule de gestion du Fonds, constitue d'un Directeur, Sous-
directeur EFTP et Administrateur financier.
Oualite des beneficiaires
Est designe sous le terme de beneficiair toute entreprise ou groupe d'entreprise,
institution, association ou collectivit6, privee et publique, beneficiant, k titre public, de contrats faisant
l'objet de l'allocation de ressourcos du Fonds. La qualite de beneficiaire resulte de l'acceptation par le
Fonds, en application des procedures decrites ci-apres, d'un projet propose par et a l'initiative de ce
beneficiaire concerne. Les droits et obligations attaches I cette qualite font l'objet pour chaque projet
d'une convention de contrat.



54
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 21
m. Classement des Programmes de Formation
Les programmes susceptibles d'Wtre executes dans le cadre d'un projet susceptibles d'un
appui du Fonds sont classds suivant les categories suivantes:
(a)    formation I la gestion technique, financibre, commerciale et des ressources humaines
dans les petites entreprises,
(b)    initiation a la commercialisation, promotion des ventes, et contrOle de qualite,
(c)    appui aux diplOmes du systbme EFTP disposant d'une aide I la creation d'une
microentreprise,
(e)    appui I la formatiqn d'apprentis et I la supervision des apprentis par le petit
entrepreneur.
IV. Informations a Fournir Lors de la Soumission d'un Projet
Le candidat soumet au Fonds un dossier comportant les pieces suivantes ou faisant office
de ces pibces si le Directoire approuve cette substitution:
1. Informations relatives au soumissionnaire:
(a)    identification precise du (ou des) soumissionnaire: statut, competences, missions
et attributions, siege ou adresse, contact t6lephonique, nom de la personne
responsable du projet, nom et qualite de la personne habilitee a signer le contrat
de service,
(b)    nature et repartition des ressources financibres.
2. Informations sur le projet presente:
(a)    designation du projet, description sommaire, localisation,
(b)    objectifs et justifications du projet,
(c)    evaluation sommaire quantitative et qualitative des avantages ou benefices attendus du
projet,
(d)    contenu du projet: composantes, description des operations de formation I realiser, et
contenu des programmes de formation,
(e)    organisation du projet: fiches de session et materiel pedagogique utilise,
equipement technique, organisation des sessions et definition des phases
proposee,
(f)    etat d'avancement des etudes et/ou dossiers techniques prealables; date a laquelle toutes
les conditions techniques pourraient ftre remplies pour demarrer les sessions;



55
ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 21
(g)    copie des dossiers techniques disponibles et liste du materiel disponible ou a se procurer,
(h)    coQt estime du projet et decomposition sommaire de ce coQt par nature - formateurs,
materiaux, materiel, autres frais - et le cas echeant par phase.
Criteres d'eligibilite
Pour Wtre eligible, un projet doit remplir les conditions suivantes:
1)     Wtre inclus dans le classement des programmes de la Section m de ce chapitre I,
2)     avoir une utilit6 economique et sociale certaine sur la base, par exemple, d'une analyse
de coQt-benefice,
3)     avoir un coat inferieur I un million d'ouguiyas,
4)     avoir un delai de lancement inferieur I deux mois,
5)    le coQt des activites prealables au lancement des sessions doit Wtre inferieur a 10% du
coat total estime du projet,
6)    la part du prestataire du service de formation (charges comprises) doit etre comprise entre
50% et 70% du coOt total estime du projet,
7)    la duree moyenne des postes de travail concernes par l'exEcution du projet doit ftre
superieure I un an,
8)    la possibilite de mobiliser sans coOt supplementaire le materiel requis sur le lieu de la
formation,
10)   la capacite financibre et technique du beneficiaire I maintenir les postes du travail
concernes par les programmes de formation, et a assurer la maintenance des equipements
recup6res,
11)   le degre de participation des personnels et des formateurs concernes dans l'identification
et la conception du projet propose, qui pourrait ere apprecie sur la base, notamment, de
proces-verbaux de reunions de concertation avec eux ou de requetes presentees par eux.
V. Procedures d'evaluation des Projets
Critbres d'evaluation
Les projets, repondant aux criteres d'eligibilite ci-dessus, sont evalues par le Directoire
au regard des criteres correspondant aux indicateurs suivants:
1)    le coat total estime du projet,



56
ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 21
2)    I'etat de preparation du projet: delai et co(t des activites et demarches prealables au
lancement des sessions,
3)    la duree moyenne des postes de travail concernds par l'execution du projet,
4)    le niveau requis de qualification des formateurs (ou institutions de formation) appelees
I executer les sessions de formation,
5)    la competence du responsable d'execution du projet (prestataire des services),
6)    la nature et disponibilite du materiel I mettre en oeuvre pour executer les sessions,
7)    les benefices quantifiables, attendus de la formation au double plan economique et social,
8)    la compldmentarite des objectifs du projet par rapport I ceux d'autres projets en cours
d'execution ou de preparation et notamment des projets inscrits dans les plans d'operation
des etablissements de formation,
9)    la capacite financiere et technique du soumissionnaire I apporter sa contribution
6ventuelle I l'execution du projet, I entretenir le resultat des programmes et I assurer la
maintenance des equipements recuperes,
10)   le degre de participation des personnels du soumissionnaire.
Examen du dossier du prolet
A partir du dossier fourni par le soumissionnaire, la Cellule de gestion du Fonds verifie
son eligibilite par rapport aux criteres enumeres et donne son avis sur chacun des indicateurs enumeres.
Le Directoire se reunit le premier mardi de chaque mois ou, s'ils sont feries, le premier jour ouvrable
suivant pour examiner les dossiers de projets inscrits I son ordre du jour par la Cellule. Sauf cas de
force majeure, le ddlai entre la soumission d'un projet et son examen par le Directoire ne doit pas exc6der
un mois. Le vote h maJorite simple des membres presents ou de leurs representants dftment
mandates est irrevocable.
Les travaux du Directoire font l'objet d'un proces-verbal. Les motifs d'acceptation ou
de rejet des projets examines sont consignes explicitement dans le proces-verbal. Ils se referent
obligatoirement aux criteres d'eligibilite et d'evaluation et, dans toute la mesure du possible, I des
indicateurs quantifies de ces criteres.
Relations du Fonds avec le soumissionnaire au cours de I'evaluation des progets
Le Fonds est habilite I demander au futur beneficiaire des renseignements
complementaires ou des precisions au cours de l'evaluation de sa requete et a prescrire un delai de
rdponse en fonction de son planning d'instruction des projets soumis au Directoire. Lorsqu'il constate
que le dossier presente est manifestement incomplet, il peut renvoyer ce dossier au soumissionnaire et
demander que le dossier complete soit soumis I nouveau au Fonds dans les memes formes que le dossier



57
ANNEX7
Page 8 of 21
initial. L'absence de reponse par le soumissionnaire aux demandes d'informations complementaires dans
les delais prescrits peut etre un motif de rejet du projet.
Notification de l'acceptation ou du rejet du projet
A l'issue de chaque seance du Directoire, la Cellule notifie par ecrit a chacun des
soumissionnaires des projets examines, la decision relative au projet qui le conceme et precise les motifs
essentiels de cette decision en cas de rejet.
Signature de la convention de contrats de service
L'acceptation definitive d'un projet est subordonnee a la conclusion entre le beneficiaire
et le Fonds d'une convention de contrat de service conforme au modele-type qui se trouve I l'Annexe
1. La convention est signee dans les meilleurs delais apres la seance du Directoire ayant decide
l'acceptation du projet. Le cas echeant des conventions annexes reglent des dispositions particulieres
relatives a l'intervention du beneficiaire dans 1'execution du projet; ces conventions peuvent notamment
concerner la mise I disposition de materiel, 1'execution par le beneficiaire de certaines etudes ou sessions
compldementaires I celles du projet, ou la participation du beneficiaire au controle des sessions. Les
conventions annexes sont signees en meme temps que la convention de contrat de service. Elles doivent
avoir ete preparEee au cours de l'evaluation du projet et etre versees au dossier examine par le Directoire.
VI. Procedures d'Attribution des Contrats de Service
Proc6dure pour les contrats de service dont le montant estime est inferieur k 500.000 ouguiyas
1.    projt. Le dossier de projet est prepare sous la responsabilite de la Cellule avec l'assistance
technique eventuelle du Centre de ressources (CRES) (cf. Section IV). II comporte les pieces
suivantes:
(a)    Un projet de contrat conforme au modele-type (cf. Annexe 1) qui precise notamment la
description, l'organisation, la duree et la localisation du programme de formation a
realiser, le contenu et la repartition des sessions prevues, le montant estime et
l'echeancier des paiements,
(b)    Le cadre de decomposition du prix global, indiquant le bordereau des prix unitaires et
le cadre du devis estimatif, qui est un document contractuel prioritaire sur les autres; il
y figure une description precise des prestations et services compris dans chacune des
taches faisant l'objet d'un prix particulier lie I une unite de reference (heure de cours,
heure d'atelier, etc.),
(c)    Le detail estimatif des travaux, assorti d'un planning des sessions et de stages en atelier
eventuels. Le montant estime figurant au projet de contrat resulte de l'application des
prix unitaires aux quantitatifs.



58
ANEX 7
Page 9 of 21
2.     Soumission des dossiers. La soumission prend la forme d'une Lettre de Soumission dont le
modele fait l'objet de l'Annexe 2; elle est signee par le representant autoris6 de(s) entreprise(s)
et accompagne des trois pieces contractuelles (projet de contrat, bordereau des prix, detail
estimatif) paraphees apres amendement eventuel. La soumission est deposee sous pli cachete I
la Cellule.
3.     Oualification du soumissionnaire.  Seuls sont autorisees I soumissionner des projets les
entreprises, institutions ou collectivites qui utilisent ou recrutent des formateurs inscrits au
registre du CRES des formateurs susceptibles d'etre accredites pour executer des programmes de
formation dans la categorie concernee.
4.     Evaluafion et Attribution du contrat
(a)    Modalits d'evaluation des dossiers. La seance d'attribution doit avoir lieu moins d'un
mois apres la date de depot du dossier I la Cellule.
(b)    Eclaircissements  et modifications  I  anoorter  aux  soumissionnaires.    Aucun
soumissionnaire ne peut Wtre invite ni autorise I modifier son dossier apres son depot k
la Cellule. II peut Wtre demande I tout soumissionnaire de preciser tel point de son
dossier, aux fins de l'evaluation, mais il ne doit pas etre invite ni autorise I en modifier
la teneur ou le prix apres son depot.
(c)    Examens des dossiers. Avant la seance d'evaluation, la Cellule doit verifier si le dossier
(i) est dement signe; (ii) est accompagne des cautionnements eventuels exigibles; (iii)
correspond pour 1'essentiel I la structure type d'un dossier de projet; (iv) ne comporte
pas de graves omissions ou erreurs de programmation; et (v) est, par ailleurs, recevable.
Tout dossier qui n'est pas conforme pour l'essentiel aux conditions et specifications du
dossier type, soit qu'il presente avec celui-ci des differences considerables, soit qu'il
comprend des reserves trop importantes, est rejete. Une fois que le dossier est depose,
le soumissionnaire n'est plus autorise I corriger ou I supprimer les differences ou
reserves importantes.
(d)    Evaluation des dossiers . L'evaluation doit permettre de determiner si le contenu et le coat
du projet sont en conformite avec les criteres d'eligibilite explicites I la Section I.I.C.
La Cellule doit etablir un rapport circonstancie sur I'evaluation et la justification des
Elements precis sur lesquels elle s'est fondee pour recommander h'attribution du contrat.
(e)    Attribution du contrat. Le contrat doit ftre obtenu dans le mois qui suit la decision
d'attribution du Directoire sous peine de perte d'attribution. II ne peut etre demande au
soumissionnaire d'accepter, comme condition d'obtention du contrat, de se charger
d'activites ne figurant pas dans le devis descriptif ni de modifier son propamme.



59
ANNEX7
Page 10 of 21
(f)    RAjet d'un dossie  11 n'est pas permis de rejeter un dossier et de demander une nouvelle
formulation sur la base des memes contenus de programmes aux seules fins d'obtenir des
coftts inferieurs.
Procedures pour les contrats de service dont le montant se situe entre 500.000 et I million ougu'yas
Dans les cas ob un contrat a un coOt estimatif superieur a 500.000 et inferieur I un
million d'ouguiyas, les procedures indiquees ci-dessus sont applicables, mais la Cellule soumettra la
decision du Directoire I l'IDA pour approbation avant notification de sa decision au soumissionnaire.
VII. Gestion des Ressources du Fonds
Engaements
Le contrat constitue la reference elementaire de comptabilisation des engagements et des
d6caissements. Des la signature d'un contrat, I'Administrateur de la Cellule ouvre une fiche-contrat et
enregistre un engagement egal au montant de ce contrat. La date et le montant de chaque reglement sont
enregistres au fur et I mesure dans la fiche-contrat; I tout moment la part engagee non decaissee est la
difference entre l'engagement initial et la somme des reglements deja effectues.
Controle des decomptes
L'Administrateur de la Cellule verifie le decompte et les situations de sessions. Ensuite,
I'Administrateur contr6le la comptabilite du decompte avec le reliquat engage non decaisse qui figure sur
la fiche contrat et ordonne le reglement. Sauf cas de force majeure dOment justifie, le d6lai total entre
la reception du decompte par la Cellule et le paiement au beneficiaire (ou 1'envoi de l'ordre de virement
I ia banque) ne doit pas exceder dix jours ouvrables.
Ordonnancement des paiements
L'ordonnancement du paiement comporte les operations suivantes:
1)    preparation des cheques ou ordres de virement pour la partie hors taxes nette I payer au
beneficiaire et/ou au prestataire de services.
2)    inscription du reglement dans la fiche contrat.
Signature des cheques et ordres de virement
Les cheques et ordres de virement sont signes par I'Administrateur et contre-signes par
le Directeur de la Cellule. L'un et l'autre peuvent deleguer par ecrit leurs signatures. Une photocopie
du cheque ou de l'ordre de virement signd et, le cas echeant, de la ou des delegation(s) de signature est
annexee au decompte avant classement de celui-ci parmi les pieces comptables justificatives conservees
par la Cellule I la disposition des reviseurs comptables.



60
ANNEX 7
Page 11 of 21
Cloture du contra
A l'evaluation definitive des programmes, le contrat est cl6ture, et le reliquat eventuel
engage non decaisse est desengage.
VIII. Rapports d'Activite
Contenu des ranports
A la fin de chaque trimestre, la Cellule au nom du Fonds presente au Directoire un
rapport d'activite relatif I la periode du dernier trimestre 6coule. II fournit sous une forme synthetique
et standardisee des informations sur:
1) 1'execution des procedures de selection des projets,
2) I'attribution des prestations (categories de formation),
3) la signature de contrats,
4) les paiements par categories de depenses,
5) le personnel forme par les entreprises ou par les institutions de formation,
6) I'ex6cution des contrats de prestation de services,
7) les prestations d'assistance technique fournies aux entreprises,
8) le niveau de performance de 1'execution du projet.
Chaque rapport d'activite est commente par le CRES avant transmission au Directoire par
la Cellule.
Indicateurs de performance
Les rapports d'activite du Fonds comprendront le tableau ci-apres des indicateurs de
performance permettant d'appr6cier de fagon quantitative les performances du Fonds d'appui aux
operations de formation et celles de la Cellule. Au cours de chaque examen annuel, la Cellule
commentera les ecarts entre les performances realisees et les indicateurs et proposera, s'il y a lieu, des
modifications I ce tableau.



61
ANNEX 7
Page 12 of 21
Indicatur                          1994       1995      1996      1997
Nombre de Contrats de programmes defomation (par an)
- secteur informel
- formation moderne
Montants annuels cumules (milliers d'ouguiyas)
Nombre de contrats de supervision/dvaluation
Nombre de journees de formation acheves (cumule)
Nombre de stagiaires formes (cumule)
- secteur informel
dont femmes
dont apprentis
- formation moderne
Pourcentage cumul6 de contrats acheves dans les d6lais
Pourcentage cumul6 de contrats achev6s dans les limites
des credits pr6vus
Pourcentage des paiements aux bnieficiaires effectu6s dans
un delai de 30 jours apres r6ception de la facture (par an)
Delai moyen d'instruction des dossiers (jours ouvrables)
Pourcentage des coOts des formateurs/coOts totaux
Nombre do postes de travail cr&ds (par an)



62
ANNEX 7
Page 13 of 21
Annexe 1: MODELE DE CONVENTION
Convention No.       concernant 1'execution du programme de
formation suivant:
Entre:                                 , prestataire du service de formation appele ci-apres le
'Formateur",
Et:                                , societe/entreprise de (activite), demandeur
de services de formation, appele ci-apres le "Beneficiaire",                d'une part,
et,
le Fonds d'appui aux actions de formation (FAAF) representee au present contrat
par le Directeur de la Cellule, designe dans ce qui suit sous le vocable 'Fonds",  d'autre part
i. a ete convenu et arrete ce qui suit:
CHAPITRE I - DISPOSMONS GENERALES
Article 1    OBJET DU MARCHE
Le present march6 a pour objet 1'execution de programmes de formation comportant
destines I .....  , ayant pour but de ............, et executes par .
Article 2    LOCALISATION DES SESSIONS
Les sessions se derouleront a .......... et seront reparties en ............. sessions.
Article 3    TYPE DE CONTRAT
Le present contrat est un contrat a prix global, forfaitaire et non revisable decompose
suivant le cadre du devis estimatif ci-joint.
Article 4    DOCUMENTS CONTRACTUELS
Les documents contractuels constituant le contrat sont, dans l'ordre de priorite:
-     le present contrat,
la Lettre de Soumission et selection du formateur, comportant la description du contenu
de la formation, I'organisation et le planning des sessions de formation.
Ia decomposition du prix global indiquant le bordereau des prix unitaires et le devis
estimatif.



63
ANNEX 7
Page 14 of 21
CHAPITRE H - EXECUTION DU PROGRAMME
Article 5   DEMARRAGE DU PROGRAMME
La signature du contrat apres approbation du Fonds vaut ordre de commencer les
activites.
Article 6     PLANNING ET DELAI D'EXECUTION
Le delai contractuel est fixe I  jours calendaires a compter de la date de signature
du contrat.
Article 7     FORMATEUR
Le(s) prestataire(s) du service de formation (ou formateur), individuel ou institutionnel,
figurant dans le dossier de soumission devra(ont) confirmer a la Cellule de gestion au plus tard 10 jours
calendaires a compter de la date de signature du contrat, le planning ainsi que le contenu et le schema
d'organisation detaille des sessions, tel que decrit dans la Lettre de soumission..
Article 8     DOCUMENTS
II n'y a pas de documents ni d'objets speciaux a mettre a la disposition du Formateur pour
faciliter son travail. (ou la Cellule  remettra au Formateur les documents suivants: ..........., apres
consultation avec le controleur designe).
Article 9     SUPERVISION ET CONTROLE DES SESSIONS
Les sessions sont placees sous le controle d'un organisme competent, denomm6 ci-apres
'Controleur", selectionne par le Fonds choisi avec le Centre de ressources et de suivi pour la formation
(CRES). Le Beneficiaire et le Formateur doivent deferer a tous les ordres 6crits ou verbaux du
Contr6leur, I charge pour lui de formuler eventuellement ses reserves dans un delai de trois (3) jours au
Formateur et au Beneficiaire.
Article 10    QUALITE DES SESSIONS
Les sessions doivent etre pertinentes et conformes aux fiches annexees I la Lettre de
soumission, respectant les recommandations et consignes qui ont ete transmises par le Fonds ou
l'organisme de contr6le qu'il a design6. Si elles ne satisfont pas a ces conditions, elles sont refusees et
refaites au frais du Formateur. II est expressement convenu que le juge de la qualite est le Fonds ou
l'organisme contr6leur qu'il a design6.
Article 11    MATERIEL PEDAGOGIQUE ET TECHNIQUE
Le Formateur est tenu de soumettre a l'approbation du ContrBleur le materiel p6dagogique
et technique et les fiches de session qu'il se propose d'utiliser pour executer les prestations d6crites dans
la lettre de soumission. Malgre cette approbation, le Formateur reste responsable de la pertinence et de
la qualite des sessions.



64
ANNEX 7
Page 15 of 21
Article 12    FORMULAIRES DE SUIVI DE SESSIONS
Le Formateur est tenu de remplir I temps et fidelement les formulaires de suivi de
sessions.
Article 13    ORDRES DE SERVICE
Le Fonds et le Contr6leur designe sont seuls habilites I emettre des ordres de service au
Formateur et au Beneficiaire. Les ordres de service leur sont adresses par lettre recommandee avec accuse
de reception, ou lui sont remis directement moyennant signature d'un recu de notification.
Article 14    INSTALLATIONS DES SESSIONS
Les emplacements pour la tenue des sessions devront etre approuves par le Contr6leur
designe par le Fonds. Le cas echeant, le Formateur a a sa charge l'amenagement de ces emplacements,
et eventuellement a la fin des sessions, leur remise en l'etat.
Article 15    HYGIENE ET SECURITE
Le Formateur devra se conformer I la reglementation en matibre d'hygiene et de securite
en vigueur en Mauritanie. 11 prendra en tous temps et a ses propres frais, toutes les precautions
n6cessaires pour la protection et la securite de toutes les personnes participant au(x) programmne(s) de
formation et appliquera tous les reglements et instructions que le Fonds ou le Controleur pourront exiger
en cette matiere. Le Formateur inclura dans ses frais toutes les mesures, si necessaires, pour assurer
l'h6bergement et le transport des participants.
Article 16    REUNIONS DE CONTROLE
Les reunions hebdomadaire entre le Beneficiaire, le Formateur, le Fonds et/ou le
Contr6leur se tiennent sur les lieux des sessions. Les reunions feront l'objet d'un proces-verbal. Ces
reunions n'excluent pas la tenue de reunion sur demande du Controleur. Le Beneficiaire et le Formateur
sont tenus d'assister I ces reunions aux heures et dates qui leur seront communiquees.
CHAPYTRE III - DISPOSITIONS FINANCIERES
Article 17    MONTANT DU CONTRAT
Le montant du contrat indique dans la Lettre de Soumission s'entend hors taxes et hors
droits de douane. Les prix indiques dans le cadre du devis estimatif sont evalues en tenant compte des
coats de d'utiisation de la main d'oeuvre, y compris les charges sociales, du coat total des fournitures
rendues sur le lieu des sessions, du cott de revient du materiel pedagogique ou d'atelier, y compris les
provisions pour amortissement ainsi que les frais d'installation de l'atelier, des frais generaux et divers
du Formateur, des sujetions d'execution, des aleas et bendfices.



65
ANNEX 7
Page 16 of 21
Article 18    AVANCE DE DEMARRAGE DES SESSIONS
Une avance de demarrage des sessions est versee au Formateur, au moment de l'ordre
de service. Le montant de cette avance est de .. % du montant total du contrat initial. Le remboursement
de l'avance de demarrage commence quand le montant cumule des prestations atteint 50% du montant
initial du marche, et doit ttre termine quand ce montant atteint 80%. et I mesure de son remboursement.
Article 19    PAIEMENTS
Les paiements seront verses au Formateur sur un rythme a stipuler dans le contrat et sur
la base de situations de sessions ou apparattront clairement le montant des prestations rdalisees et des
depenses encourues dans la periode consideree, ainsi que le montant cumule des prestations realisees au
dernier jour de cette periode. Ces montants des prestations sont calcules par reference au cadre du devis
estimatif, par application a ce prix, des prestations reellement executees apres verification du Controleur
designe par le Fonds. Les paiements ont lieu a Nouakchott par les soins de l'Administrateur financier
de la Cellule du Fonds sur presentation de factures vis6es par le Beneficiaire et certifiees par le
Contr6leur. Le delai de paiement ne peut exceder sept (7) jours I compter de l'acceptation de la facture
par le Sous-directeur de la Cellule.
Article 20    DOMICILIATION BANCAIRE
Le Formateur fera connattre a la Cellule, s'il souhaite un mode de paiement bancaire, le
numero du compte bancaire I cr6diter pour le reglement des sommes dues par le Fonds.
Article 21   REGIME FISCAL ET DOUANIER
Le present contrat beneficie du regime d'exonerations et exemptions prevu par
l'Ordonnance No. 80-323 du 10/12/83 fixant le regime fiscal et douanier applicable aux projets realises
sur financement exterieur en faveur de l'Etat.
CHAPITRE IV - DISPOSITIONS DIVERSES
Article 22    MODIFICATION DU CONTENU DE LA FORMATION
Le Fonds peut accepter une variation en plus ou en moins dans une proportion quelconque
du volume des prestations sans qu'il soit necessaire de passer un nouveau contrat et sans que le Formateur
puisse faire une reclamation. Dans ce cas, le montant du contrat est r6vise en consequence par
application aux quantites en sus ou en moins des prix correspondants au cadre de decomposition du prix
global. En meme temps, le delai est revise en consequence.
Article 23    INTERRUPTION DES ACTIVITES DU FORMATEUR
En cas d'interruption imprevue des activites du Formateur, meme partielle, a titre
temporaire ou definitif, le Bendficiaire devra dans les delais les plus courts, au plus tard deux jours



66
ANNEX 7
Page 17 of 21
ouvrables, en aviser la Cellule du Fonds et prendre avec elle les mesures n6cessaires pour la poursuite
des sessions dans des conditions ne portant pas prejudice I la formation.
Article 24    SALAIRE DU FORMATEUR ET AUTRE PERSONNEL
L'Entrepreneur eat tenu de communiquer au Fonds l'etat des remunerations et salaires
des Enseignants et autre personnel employe pour la realisation du contrat. Le Fonds ou son representant
peut, s'il le juge utile, assister au paiement des salaires du personnel commis aux sessions de formation.
Dans le cas ob le Formateur n'honore pas ses engagements vis-a-vis de son personnel, particulierement
en ce qui concerne le paiement des Enseignants, le Fonds se substitue d'office au Formateur pour le
paiement des dits remunerations et salaires. Cette part sera deduite des sommes dues au Formateur par
le Fonds.
Article 25    CAS D'URGENCE
Le Fonds se reserve le droit d'interrompre le contrat chaque fois qu'a son avis une telle
interruption est necessaire pour la pertinence du programme de formation.
ArtIlde 26    RESPONSABILTE
Le Formateur sera responsable lors de 1'execution du contrat de tous les degats,
dommages et accidents de quelque nature que ce soit causes aux tiers par son personnel, le materiel de
l'entreprise, ou du fait de la formation.
Artide 27    CONTESTATIONS ET LMGES
Si au cours des sessions, un differend survient entre les parties, et qu'aucune solution I
l'amiable n'est trouv6e, le differend est soumis aux tribunaux competents qui trancheront suivant les
rbgles en vigueur en Mauritanie.
Lu et accepte                                   Lu et accepte
Le Benefidaire                                  Le Bdnefidaire
Lu et approuve
Le Directeur de la Cellule
de Gestlon du Fonds



67
ANNEX 7
Page 18 of 21
Annexe 2:
STATUTIS DU FONDS D'APPUI AUX ACTVITES DE FORMATION PROFESSIONNELLE
ArtIcle I    DEnomination
II est cr66 un Fonds regi par la loi no ..... du //// 19.. denomme "Fonds d'appui aux
activite de fbrmation professionnelle' (FAAF), et designe ci-apres par le mot Fonds".
Artide 2     Objet
Le Fonds a pour but d'apporter un appui financier et technique pour preparer, executer
et evaluer des programmes de formation professionnelle visant des entreprises ou groupes d'entreprises,
institutions et associations, qu'elles soient d'interet prive ou d'utilite publique, selon des procedures et
techniques qui garantissent une utilisation maximum des capacites de formation locale, aneliorent lea
qualifications et la productivite de la main d'oeuvre locale, et facilitent l'emergence et le renforcement
des micro, petites et moyennes entreprises locales.
A cet effet, le Fonds est notamment charge de:
a)    recevoir et evaluer les operations de formation soumises par une ou un groupe
d'entreprise(s), institution(s) ou association(s) pourvu qu'elles justifient 1'existence et de
la valeur economique des postes de travail auxquels ces operations sont destinees,
b)    attribuer la totalite ou une partie des coats totaux financiers ou en nature
de l'operation beneflciaire,
c)    verifier le recrutement des formateurs (individus ou institutions) qui seront charges de
preparer les dossiers techniques, d'executer les sessions de formation, et valider les
rdsultats de l'operation,
d)    assurer la qualite des operations et l'evaluation des services fournis.
Artide 3     Sifge
Le siege du Fonds est fixe I Nouakchott.
Artide 4     Durde du Fonds
La duree du Fonds est fixe a 99 annees. Toutefois, le Fonds sera dissout des que le
Gouvernement juge que son objet social est realise.
Article 5           Ressources
Les ressources du Fonds comprennent:



68
ANNEX 7
Page 19 of 21
(a)    des subventions, dons, legs ou lib6ralites par l'Etat, les collectivites publiques, les
Associations reconnues d'utilite publique, et par tout organisme ou Etat etranger, dans
les limites compatibles avec la reglementation en vigueur,
(b)    des contributions des beneficiaires,
(c)    du produit des prestations effectuees pour l'ex6cution des travaux entrant dans le cadre
des objectifs du Fonds,
(e)    du produit des emprunts,
(f)    du produit du placement des fonds disponibles.
Article 6    Organes d'admission, d'eligibiiite et d'administration du Fonds
Les organes d'admission, d'eligibilite et d'Administration du Fonds sont:
(a)   le Directoire du Fonds,
(b)   la Cellule de gestion du Fonds.
Article 7    Composition du Directoire
Le Directoire est compose de cinq membres designes par le Comite Interministeriel charge
de la mise en oeuvre de la strategie nationale d'education et de formation techniques et professionnelles.
Le Directoire devra obligatoirement comporter au moins 40% des representants des organisations
professionnelles de employeurs et chefs d'entreprise. Sa composition est fixee par ddcret des Ministres
charges du plan et de la formation professionnelle apres consultation du Comite.
Article 8    Fonctionnement du Directoire
Le Directoire se reunit, en session ordinaire, chaque premier mardi de chaque mois (ou
le jour non ferie le plus proche) et en tant que de besoin. Cinq jours avant la date fixee, les membres
du Directoire sont convoques par les soins du President designe. L'ordre du jour est indique sur les
convocations. Le Directoire peut Wtre convoqu6, en seance extraordinaire, a la demande d'au moins la
moitie de ses membres, ou I la demande du Directeur de la Cellule de gestion. Le Directoire elit parmi
ses membres, personnes physiques presentes, au debut de chaque seance, un President, I la majorite
simple des voix. Le President elu reste en fonction jusqu'a la prochaine reunion du Directoire. La
presidence du Directoire ne peut ere assuree par le Directeur de la Cellule de gestion.
Les decisions du Directoire, reuni en seance ordinaire ou extraordinaire, sont prises I la
majorite simple des membres presents ou representes. En cas de partage des voix, celle du president est
preponderante. Le Directoire ne delibere valablement qu'en presence des 2/3 de ses membres.
Toutefois, lorsque ce quorum n'est pas atteint, il peut, cinq jours plus tard, lors d'une deuxieme
convocation, valablement deliberer I la majorite simple de ses membres. Un membre peut donner
procuration ecrite I un autre membre I 1'effet de le representer aux reunions du Directoire; un membre
ne peut recevoir qu'une procuration.



69
ANNEX 7
Page 20 of 21
Le Directeur de la Cellule de gestion ou son representant est observateur sans droit de
vote du Directoire, dont il assure le secretariat. Tout bailleur contribuant au financement du Fonds peut
demander I OWe represente par un observateur designe aux seances du Directoire. 11 est tenu de rediger,
apres chaque seance, un proces-verbal de la reunion du Directoire.
Le President design6 du Directoire a aussi la possibilite de designer en tant qu'observateur
sans droit de vote tout individu ou institution dont il juge la presence benefique au deroulement des
travaux vu l'ordre du jour.
Article 10    Pouvolrs du Diroctoire du Fonds
Le Directoire est l'organe qui decide l'admission aux ressources du Fonds et confirme
leur utilisation en conformite avec les objectifs assignes au Fonds. II determine et fixe les actions
necessaires I la realisation de l'objet social du Fonds.
a)    II peut demander au Ministre du Plan la revocation du Directeur de la Cellule de gestion
dans les conditions prevues a l'article 11,
b)    11 approuve la nomination d'un Auditeur financier et d'un auditeur technique, et approuve
les comptes du Fonds,
c)    II peut demander au Ministre du plan des ajustements au manuel de procedures joint a
ce Decret,
d)    1 approuve le rapport moral et financier qui est semestriellement etabli par le Directeur de la
Cellule de gestion.
A 1'exclusion de ce qui precede, le Directoire peut deleguer l'ensemble de ses pouvoirs
au Directeur de la cellule de gestion, I charge pour ce dernier de lui rendre compte chaque mois des
activites du Fonds, selon le modele de rapport prevu au Manuel de Procedures du Fonds.
Article 11    Nomination  et Rhvocation  du  Personnel de  la  Cellule  de  gestion  du
Fonds
Le Directoire donne son avis sur le choix des trois cadres superieurs de la Cellule, I
savoir le Directeur, le Sous-directeur technique et l'Administrateur financier de la Cellule de gestion du
Fonds, aux termes d'une procddure de selection mise en oeuvre par le Gouvernement. Ce personnel doit
repondre aux criteres de competence et de probite requis pour exercer leur mission.
Ce personnel peut OWe revoque en cas de manquement grave I leurs obligations, par le
Ministre du Plan sur recommandation du Directoire prise I la majorite des 2/3 des membres titulaires (et
non do leurs representants). La revocation est signifiee par le Ministre I l'agent revoque par lettre
recommandee. Elle entratne d'office la perte de qualite de membre de la Cellule. A cette meme seance,
et avant toute autre decision, le Directoire recommande la nomination d'un remplagant interimaire dans
les m6mes conditions de majorite.



70
ANNEX 7
Page 21 of 21
Article 12    Situation juridique du Personnel de la Cellule
Les trois cadres superieurs de la Cellule nommes sur recommandation du Directoire sont
lies I la Cellule par un contrat qui doit etre approuve dans les memes conditions que celles requises pour
leur nomination. Le Directeur presente au Directoire, pour approbation, l'organigramme de la Cellule
qui doit comporter un service technique et un service administratif-financier necessaires a l'exdcution de
la gestion du Fonds.
Artide 13     Pouvolrs du Directeur de la Cellule
Sous reserve des pouvoirs explicitement reserves au Directoire, le Directeur, dans les
limites des pr6sents statuts, du Manuel de procedures du Fonds, et des conventions nationales ou
internationales engageant le Fonds, dispose des pouvoirs etendus pour assurer le bon fonctionnement du
Fonds et l'execution de la mission qui est confiee a la Cellule de gestion.
(a)    11 peut notanunent confler I des consultants externes specialisds les missions qui lui semblent
necessaires I l'execution des differentes taches qui lui sont assignees,
(b)    il a l'entiere responsabilite des fonds mis I sa disposition,
(c)    il doit, conformement aux normes comptables generalement admises, et aux usages uniformement
appliques, tenir les livres de comptes,
(d)    il procede au recrutement du personnel, en dehors du Sous-directeur technique et de
l'Administrateur financier, de la Cellule,
(e)    il ordonne les depenses, signe les contrats et les conventions entrant dans le cadre de
l'accomplissement de sa mission,
(f)    il doit gerer le Fonds dans le respect du Manuel de Procedures,
Artide 14     Modification des Statuts et Dissolution du Fonds
Les presents statuts ne peuvent Wtre modifies que sur avis du Comite Interministeriel
charg6 de la mise en oeuvre de la strategie d'education et de formation techniques et professionnelles,
en seance extraordinaire, prise I la majorite des 3/4 de ses membres. La decision de dissolution du
Fonds est prise dans les memes conditions. Dans tous les cas, la modifications dos statuts et la
dissolution supposent, pour etre effectives, I'accord du Gouvernement. En cas de dissolution du Fonds,
le Ministre du Plan designe une personne, exterieure au Fonds, chargee de la liquidation de ses biens.
L'eventuel boni de liquidation sera devolu I l'Etat Mauritanien.
Article 15    Formalites lEgales
Les Ministres en charge du plan et de la formation professionnelle sont charges de
proceder aux formalites legales ou reglementaires indispensables pour conferer au Fonds la capacite
juridique.
Fait I Nouakchott, le .... 1993



71
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 6
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
ECOLE NATIONALE D'ENSEIGNEMENT MARITIME ET DE PECHE
1.           Scp. New facilities for the ENEMP, to be constructed at Nouadhibou, are based on
the following hypotheses: (i) optimum fish production of 440,000 tons per annum (about 80% of actual
production over last 5 years); (ii) commercial fishing fleet of about 360 vessels, of which 145 Mauritanian
owned and operated; (iii) current Mauritanian staff employed in fishing fleet of about 3,000 (1800 on
national and 1200 on foreign-owned ships); (iv) annual staffing needs, projected over the long term (year
2008), estimated at 30 qualified seamen, 45 diesel mechanics, 12 electro-mechanics and refrigeration
technicians; and 35 deck officers and officer-mechanics.
2.           Structure of Training Programs. Training programs for seamen and technicians have been
fully developed and are currently underway in temporary facilities (SNIM mining training center,
Nouadhibou). Technician trainees would be recruited at the level of CAP or BEP (lower-secondary
technical school) for a one-year school-based training course in the selected specialty, followed by 9
months of compulsory practical training aboard ship. Certification (CAPM) would be sanctioned by the
OMI and would be at two levels: as second mechanic after 9 months of certified shipboard training, and
as chief mechanic after another nine months of work experience. Officer training programs have been
developed. Trainees would be recruited at baccalaureat or BT level, and selected on a competitive basis
through an entrance examination. Officer training would consist of three periods of six to nine months
of school-based training, interspersed with extended periods of 12 to 18 months of practical training in
navigation or mechanics aboard ship, culminating in certification as deck officer first class or as chief
mechanical officer. All training and practical attachments would be subject to certification by the OMI.
Chart 1 of this Annex provides a schematic representation of the training structure.
3.           Physical Facilities. The new ENEMP facilities would provide accommodation for about
100 middle-level trainees (seamen, technicians) and 65 officer-trainees, with an estimated annual output
of 70 technicians and 50 officers. This capacity would nationalize the staff of the fishing fleet in about
15 years, and maintain the status quo thereafter. Details of requirements for pedagogical, residential and
administrative facilities are provided in Chart 2 of this Annex.
4.           Prject Supprt. The project would finance the cost of construction, equipment and
furniture for the ENEMP; six months of consulting services to conduct a staff audit, computerize the
ENEMP records, help organize a student tracer and follow-up system, and conduct staff development
courses; four years of overseas fellowships to train two instructors for the officer training programs; and
two TA staff (CNS) for two years to start up the officer program.



72                                    ANNEX  8
Page 2 of 6
FILIERE "MACHINE
FILIERE             DIPLOfl            9lNITt           PRERATIVES
Environ 25 ans-                  --       Diplhe d'Officier---Brevet d'0MI--  CHEF MECANICIEN
O M I   J          Kecanicien                           TOUTES PUISSAiCES
9 MOIS 1          de lire Classe
135 Smaines
+ 2 S STAGE
N
A    E       6mois
V    F                       -E- CHEF MECPNICIEN
I   F                                                                Puissance ( 3000 KW
G    E       6 mois
A    c
T    I               -         -        - ---Brevet de OM2-  SECOND MECANICI!N
I   V                                                                Puissance ( 3000 KW
0    E       5 sois
N 
Diplfme d'Officier
0 N 2             Mecanicier
9 mOIS            de 2ere Classe
35 Suaims
+ 4 S STAGE
DU -ECANICIEN
Puissance ( 750 KW
N            6 iois
A    E
V    F          ---- -------Brevet de DM3-  OFFICIER CUF DE  UART
I   F                                                                Puissance (1500 KW
5    E       3 mois  en qualiti d' Officier staciaire
A    C
T    I          ------DiplI,e d'Officier   Micanicien de 3eue Classe
I  V
'    E       9 mois  en cualite d' Elfve stagiaire
N
_ --ATTESTATION DE SLCCES
O t1 3
9 MIS
35 Serninm
s 4 S STAeE
CNOURS D'ENTREE-
+18 ans Bacs: C.D.T
3 M4OIS
Priparation
ForeL Off
CGCDURS D'ENTREE--               --1/3 des places en (13 rhorvi a*u  profnsuionnrls
I     issus de la filiere CRFM ou justifiant de 10 annees d'embarqueuent
15 mois de naviaation   en qualith de uarin
-Dipla.e CPPN-    -- --OE F    MEDIICIEN
I                                                             Puissance ( 2%0 KW
9 eois de navigation           9 xcis de navigation                  SECOND MECANICIEN
Ihiois  le navigatPuissance ( 500 Kw
-      --ATTESTATION--
Duv.fMcanicien    DE SICCES     Ouv.E1ect.Frigo        Formation
9  NOIS                        9 MOIS            Continue pour -Qualification par
35 Sesaines       C(CO.3RS      35 Suaim             la PkOIe    Modules Capitalisables
-25ans       + 3 S. STAGE     D'ENTREE       + 3 S. STAGE           Citl6m
+18ans-                    -CAP  ou SEP -



FILIERE "P                                                                                              ANNEX  8
FILIERE              DIPWAES              BREVETS               PREROGATIVES  Page  3 of 6
Environ ;25                                                            ------           CAPITAINE
N              I                                                             TOUS NAVI1ES DE PECHE
A    E       6 rCis
V    F
I    F          j------------------- -Brevet de OPI--                        CAPITAINE
6    E                                                                       Navire de Peche t 24 otres
A    C       6inois
T    I          I
I    V                 ------DiplOme d'Officier
0    E       O P I              Pont de 2ere Classe
N            6 MOIS
24 Saainas
+ 2 S STAGE
N
a    E
V    F       6 iois
I    F
6  E            I-------            -------Brevet de OP2---ler OFFICIER
A    C                                                                       Tous navires de peche
T    I       6 aois
I  V            I
o    E                 ------Diplre  d'Officier---                ------2Cue  OFFICIER
N            a P 2              Port de 2eme Classe                          Tous navires de peche
6 MOIS                                                         ler OFFICIER
24 S.eaines                                                       Navires de ptche   24 mitre
+ 2 S STAGE
Ni.                   I---                    -                         ----PATRON
A    E                                                                       Navires de Peche (16 metre
V    F       6 mois
I F F
---------------------EBrevet de OP3--OFFICIER CUEF DE QUMRT
A    C                                                                       Tous navires de Peche
T    I       6 mois  en qualiti d' Officier staqiaire
I    v
O    E           -- -----Dipl8ue d'Officier   Pont de 3ue Classe
N
9 mois   en 4ualitt d' ElAve stagiaire
I      _--ATTESTATION DE SUCCES
O P 3
9 MOIS
34 Smainus
+ 4 S STAGE
caNURS D' ENTREE-
+18 ans BCS:C.D.T
3 1OIS
Preparation
For. Off
CI0URS D'IENT          R-          -1/3 des places en CP3 reserve aux professionnels issus du CARP ou
15 mois de naviaation   justifiant de 10 annees d1embarqueuent en qualiti de marin
1--            ~Diplbme CAPH  -----ATRONO
9 wois de navigation                                                Navires de Piche (10 u
I       1--- ATTESTATION DE SUCCES lois de naviaationPuissance ( 250 Kw
Matelot Dual
9  D0IS                                        Forution
33 Semains                                     Continue pour -Qualification par
- 25ans   + 3 S. STAGE                                       la pie         Modules Capitalisables
+ 18 ans                 --BEPC--CCNURS D' ENTREE             Catiir



P0IOE0          ELBRUCnI0   E   P
OCUPAIN  DUES LOCAAIX PEDAMOW     S
a6gori* bord6s h/bord hommse  bas coum niormatique   machines 6loctricit6  ruendage   montage  matelotage     dm"in   gymnase      navire
occuplion            m6ca-g n6 bctronqique                ngins                                       cobi
annuelb                     automatisme                p6che
O    __i~U@s *nne                                                TP-lroid
OP3          1     15     15         606                                       102                    68                   68         44
OP2          1     I0     10         696        48                                                                                    24
OP1          1      a      8         604        48                                                                                    24
OM3          1     15     15         619                  210                                         35        140        70
0M2          I      a      8         724        35        140        140                                        105
cmlI                a      a         783       105         11        140
MD          4      15     60        1540                                       560        420        280                            1660
>a;         3      15    45         1050                  840        210                                                            1260
as          1      12     12         420                   35        245                                                             420
181       7 242 t'    236      1 236       735        662        420       383        245        138      3 452
Ocapedons hobdomedgire
som/an
OP3                       34          24         0          0          0          3         0          2          0         2          1
OP2                       24          29         2          0          0          0         0          0          0         0          1
OP1                       24          25         2          0          0          0         0          0          0         0          1
CM3                       35          18         0          6          0          0         0          1          4         2          0
0M2                       35          21          1         4          4         0          0          0          3         0          0
all                       35          22         3          0          4          0         0          0          0         0          0
kV                        32          48         0          0          0        16         13          9          0         0         53
0G                        32          33         0         26          7         0          0          0          0         0         39
EW                        32          13         0          1          8         0          0          0          0         0         13
m_ss ho a'hebdomaWr.                 233         a 8       38         221       21         131        12          7         4        108
nombs Jo ,bwum           5,5                                                                                                           8
nombe dIoum  pr jour       7                                                                                                          14
nombre                  38.5
Nom dr de  _da do dames             6,04                                                                                                               i
armnu&                                 70
00



PFJET DE CCNSTFU1TON DE L9QIIP
SUPERICE DES LOCAUX
1. LOCAUX PEDAOOWOIES
saies coum nformatique  machines dlectricit6 ramendage   montage matelotage  dessin   gymnae      navire
m6ca-9g6  lctronqique             angins                                     0cole
simulateuriutoomatisme             p6e
TP-frold
nonmb C61ves par bord6e              15
nonbr de soles                                    7         1          1         1          1         1         1          1         1          1
nowmr de bordes / sd                              1         1          3         1          1         1         1          1         1          1
cpack daecumii pw rsae                           15        15        45         15         15        15        15         15         15        15
surfae par &ve                                 4,74       4,74      8,25      5,54      16,93      4,67       4,74      4,74      20.00     20,00
surbfe pwr bcaux                              71.07      71.07    371,07     83,07       254         70      71,07     71,07       300        300
surfc totls pr type de loai                  497,49      71,07    371,07     83,07       254         70      71,07     71.07       300        300
aurl pondAr Apow cci dsaos os                497.49      71,07    371,07     83,07       219         35      71,07     71,07        60
Total surfaes p6daogkqe ble      1488,84
Total surabs pdagoues pond6r6fs 1478,84
Machines, m6carique gi66ale, simuateur              sutf/eIlve   surf tot
Total                                                         371,07
Simuiaur machine                                      4,74     71,07
D1niootage motaurws-uxil., banc hydraul., banc m0rol., r0gt  10  150                                                                                  U,
Ajustage-usinage-soudage-m6trologle                    10        150
Electrict-Mectr-automat                                       surt/dlIve   surf tot
Total                                                                     83,07
Simui teur frold, pallasse manip. mach. toumantes               4,74      71,07
Rangwmwn                                                        0,80        12
R_inne 1 MIalar 2 epam (A rebr avec matebtage)                           surt/fIve    surf tot
Total                                                                              254,00
ramndag  bgewu 4,6 bnguatw 40 m                                           12,27    184,00
aspace exterieur manutention (h demi-prix)                                 4,67     70,00
Ln
co
0



PROJET DE 00IIS CTION DE L8IP
SUPERLI DES LOCAUX
L INTERNAT
Nombre dboiiders                  64         box       box       box  sanitaires rangements r6tecloire    cuisine  buanderie   locaux    steller
Nombre de stag. brm. moy.        117    oiliciers  form. moy surveillant    WC           rb de service   stockage    tavage   poubelie  entretien
douche               2                  reapssage
nombr poslI /cal                                  1          8         1         16                   91
nombr de xocaux                                  64         15         4          2         2          1
su bricie par peron                             4,62    1,8125       4,62         2                  1,2
wspride par loca                                4,62     14,50       4,62     32,00       6,00    108,60       50,00     30,00      15,00     10,00
supece de res de bcaux du type                295,68     217,5      18,48     64,00      12,00    108,60       50,00     30,00      15,00     10,00
Toal de surfae                    821,26
3 ADiNISTRATION
Directeur Comptabe Secr6tariat Surveiliants'bprographis    Archives  Salle des  Cere de   Salle de
Directeur des 6tudes                                                    prolesseurs cumentatbon cont6rence
Inlormation
nombre pose / boi                                 1          2         2          2         2          1
nombre de bnux                                    1          1          1         2         1          1
s    cbfide par peranne                          25       7.50       7,50      7,50       7.50      9,00
su bfice par ocal                                25      15,00      15,00     15,00      15,00      9.00       50,00     70,00      70,00     70,00
supemde de en des lociux du type                 25      15.00      15.00     30,00      15,00      9,00       50,00     70,00      70,00     70,00
Total des  suraces                   369
4. RECAPiTULATIF
surface    surface     coat             coOt total coOt total
r6eiIe   pond6r6o    UMIm2                   IN      ULOS
105
SALLESDEOOUFS                        497       497    63 900              31 789 611   302 758
ATEUERS                              991       981    71 000              69 675 850   663 580
flTEftAT                             821       821    63 900              52 478 514   499 795
ADMNiTRATION                         369       369    63 900              23 579 100   224 563
SANITAIRES                            60        60    71 000               4 260 000    40 571
CiRCULATION               15%        336       336    63 900              21 485 832   204 627
TOTAL BATIMENT                     2 578      2 568                     171 479 296  1 633 136
VD                                                                       s15 000 000   142 857
EIUDESCCNTrCLE            10%                                            18 647 930   177 599
OQ z
TOTAL PROJET                                                            205 127 225  1953 593                            r X
0o
0%



77
ANNEX9
Page 1 of 10
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
Termes de Reference du Directoire Executif pour le Projet
Fonctions. Le Directoire a e cree par le Decret No...., pour assurer les quatre fonctions
principales suivantes:
1.    le secr6tariat du Comite interministeriel de pilotage de la politique d'education et formation
techniques et professionnels (EFTP);
2.     Ia coordination des plans d'action de chacun des etablissements de formation;
3.    la supervision et l'orientation des activites du Centre de ressources et de suivi (CRES) pour
le secteur EFTP;
4.     l'orientation, I'agrement et la coordination des actions du Fonds d'appui aux actions de
formation (FAAF), finance par l'IDA, et celles du Fonds d'appui aux etablissements de
formation (FAEF), finance par le FAC.
A. Secretariat du Comit6 Interministeriel
Le Comit6 interministeriel a pour mission de conseiller le Gouvernement sur tous les aspects
de la strategie EFTP qui sont definis dans la Lettre de politique sectorielle (Annexe 2), et en particulier, de:
i)     examiner et commenter -apres consultations avec les organismes charges de la mise en oeuvre
de la politique economique et sociale du Gouvernement et en particulier, celle de l'emploi-
les objectifs des programmes d'action et mesures de politique concernant le secteur EFTP.
Ces programmes et mesures proviendront des ministres responsables de l'education
technique, de la formation professionnelle, de la formation maritime et autres ministares
techniques ayant la tutelle d'etablissements de formation. Parmi ces mesures, devront figurer
les statuts particuliers du formateur et du centre EFTP et les resultats de 1'etude sur le
financement des activites EFTP (taxe d'apprentissage ou sur la formation), 6l6ments de
politique prevus dans le cadre du projet EFTP.
ii)    commenter I'allocation budgetaire globale annuelle sur ressources publiques centrales
(d6penses r6currentes -Loi de finances- et investissements -PIP-) et destin6e aux activites
EFTP. Cette allocation se fera sur la base du programme consolidant chaque annee les plans
d'action que les etablissements auront actualises et justifies par rapport a leurs performances
initialement prdvues (Annexe 12);
iii)    approuver les objectifs des programmes ou projets proposes au financement sur aide
exterieure.
Le Directoire aura la charge de preparer les reunions du Comite interministeriel et de suivre
la mise en oeuvre des decisions qui y sont prises. Pour ce faire, il vdrifiera les documents



78
ANNEX
Page 2 of 10
qui seront soumis au Comite, finalisera les agendas des reunions, et soumettra, I chaque r6union, un rapport
regulier sur l'ex6cution des decisions adoptees anterieurement par ce Comite.
B. Coordination des Plans d'Action des Etablissements de Formation
Sur la base du plan d'action defini dans la Lettre de politique sectorielle EFTP (Annexe 2)
et des critrer de performance retenus, la Directoire aura a:
i)     approuver lea propositions faites par les diverses institutions EFTP et en particulier le CRES
sur lea actions lieas  la mise en oeuvre de la strategie EFIP. Priorite sera donn6e au
renforcement des relations avec lea employeurs et I la mise en oeuvre des statuts specifiques
(formateur et centre de formation);
ii)    coordonner entre les diff6rents 6tablissements de formation -en liaison avec le CRES et
l'Observatoire de 1'emploi- la cr6ation de nouvelles filieres. Cette cr6ation sera basee sur
l'examen des justifications (march6 de l'emploi), types de qualification, taille et suivi,
debouchds (liaison avec les employeurs), ainsi que les m6thodes de formation, lea objectifs
de performance, et les critres d'6valuation;
iii)    examiner, sur base annuelle, les performances des principaux 6tablissements de formation,
les justifications, mesures correctives et/ou ajustements sugger6s par rapport aux plans
d'action 1994-97 approuv6s a la n6gociation du Cr6dit IDA;
iv)    commenter sur les propositions de budgets annuels des etablissements avant leur presentation
a leurs Conseils de 'gestion". De ces commentaires et r6ponses des 6tablissements, le
directoire en deduira lea besoins globaux d'allocation budgetaire au niveau central
(proposition pour le Comit6 interminist6riel, pam A(ii)).
v)     participer & la supervision annuelle -conjointament avec l'IDA et le FAC et comme prevue
par les Accords de cr6dit- de 1'ex6cution du projet EFIP; et a l'adoption des mesures
correctives eventuelles et du plan d'action global pour 1'ann6e suivante. A mi-parcours, cette
supervision examinera l'ensemble des objectifs du projet EFTP pour proposer lea ajustements
n6cessaires afin d'en respecter les objectifs initiaux.
C. Sui,arvision et Orientation des Activit6s du CRES
Le Directoire est charge d'approuver le programme de travail annuel global et pour chacune
des fonctions du CRES (Annexe 5). Pour ce faire, il examinera:
i)     un rapport d'exdcution annuel d6crivant l'ensemble des activites du Centre et du personnel
pour l'annee prec6dente, ainsi que les 6valuations des impacts et resultats obtenus par rapport
aux objectifs et termes de r6f6rence du CRES, I la fois globaux et d6finis dans le rapport
previsionnel precedent;
ii)    un rapport prdvisionnel annuel detaillant les activit6s proposEes dans les divers domainea de
compEtence avec des justificatifs d6taill6s pour celles de ces activites ayant un caractere
novateur;



79
ANNEX9
Page 3 of 10
iii)   le budget annuel sur la base du rapport previsionnel et I'approuvera en consultation avec leas
bailleurs (FAC et IDA) lors de la supervision conjointe annuelle (pam B(v));
iv)    des rapports de mise en oeuvre trimestriels en approuvant d'6ventuels ajustements significatifa
par rapport au plan d'action pr6vu dans le rapport pr6visionnel;
v)    toute requ&e qui lui sem soumis soit par un membre du Comit6, soit par le Directeur du
CSET (dans son r8le de coordinateur du CRES), soit par un des bailleurs (Chef du projet
FAC ou Directeur de la DPE) concernant des aspects des activites du CRES exigeant des
d6cisions urgentes.
D. Orientation. Agrement et Coordination des Actions des Fonds d'appui
Le Directoire est imparti des fonctions de Conseil de gestion des Fonds d'appui, FAAF sur
financement IDA et FAEF sur financement FAC. Les activites ci-dessous concernent surtout la gestion du
FAAF; celles concernant le FAEF sont d6taill6es dans les Accords avec le FAC. Pour gdrer le FAAF, le
Directoire devr, lors de r6unions mensuelles:
i)     approuver les requetes pour un appui financier sur la base du dossier qui aura et revu par
l'UCP et en respectant les procedures adoptees lors de la negociation du Credit IDA;
ii)    justifier tout refus d'une requ8te tout en ayant la possibilit6 de suggerer une deuxieme
soumission;
iii)    examiner le rapport d'ex6cution de toute requete d6ja approuv6e, rapport I soumettre moins
d'un mois apres le dernier d6boursement; ainsi que le rapport d'impact I soumettre apres six
mois et avant douze mois de la cl8ture du dossier d'appui;
iv)    analyser les performances du FAAF lors de chaque supervision annuelle avec l'IDA (para
B(v)); et approuver conjointement avec elle toute modification dans les criteres et proc6dures
du Fonds qui serait justifi6e pour am6liorer ses performances par rapport aux objectifs qui
lui ont 6te assign6s lors de la n6gociation du cr6dit IDA;
v)     approuver les comptes annuels de gestion du FAAF, en les trnsmettant pour information aux
membres du Comit6 Interminist6riel dans le cadre du Rapport annuel (pam A(iii)).
H. ORGANISATION
Le Directoire est conqu comme un organisme visant I mettre en oeuvre dans la pratique
quotidienne, l'objectif essentiel de la strat6gie EFTP, qui est de d6velopper une approche coherente des actions
EFTP qui soit coordonn6e entre le secteur public -essentiellement les directions ministerielles en charge de
formation-, et le secteur priv6, essentiellement les organisations d'employeurs.



80
ANNEX
Page 4 of 10
Sa composition peut donc varier selon les themes qu'il examine, chacun 6tant relie aux quatre
fonctions principales deja definies. Neanmoins, le Comite ne peut se r6unir que lorsque les cinq membres
permanents ou leurs representants accredites sont presents. Ces cinq membres sont les trois directeurs
charges des departements de l'education technique, de la formation professionnelle et de la formation maritime
et des deux representants designes par la CGEM (Fedration des employeurs).
A. Pour assurer les fonctions de Secretariat du Comite interministeriel (Section I-A), le Directoire
sera obligatoirement pr6side par le Directeur charg6 des ressources humaines au Ministare charge du plan.
Cette Direction aura la responsabilit6 de tous les travaux de secr6tariat qui lui incombent et qui d6coulent des
trois aspects principaux de cette fonction et definis a la Section I-A. Cela inclut en particulier la convocation
des reunions, la distribution de l'agenda et des documents inscrits h l'ordre du jour, et la selection pour
participation 6ventuelle de representants d'institutions, publiques ou priv&es, dont la presence s'avere utile
pour la discussion des points inscrits I cet ordre du jour. Le Chef du projet FAC et le Directeur de la DPE
assistent en tant qu'observateurs a ces reunions.
B. Pour assurer la coordination entre les 6tablissements de formation, le Directoire devra definir sa
methode de travail et notamment qui est responsable de la convocation des s6ances de travail. Une fois par
an, la Direction chargee de la formation professionnelle devra, en l'absence de toute autre procedure,
convoqu6e le Comite pour examiner les propositions des principaux etablissements de formation lies au projet
EFTP et preparer la supervision annuelle conjointe avec les deux bailleurs IDA et FAC. Le Sous-Directeur
charge du projet EFTP I la DPE a la responsabilit6 vis a vis l'IDA de s'assurer qu'une telle reunion a et
convenablement preparee (c'est a dire, que chaque etablissement a soumis son rapport d'ex6cution et sa
requete de financement; et qu'elle a ete convoquee a temps pour permettre la supervision conjointe
imperativement avant le 31 septembre de chaque ann6e durant l'ex6cution du Cr6dit IDA. Le Chef du projet
FAC et le Sous-Directeur EFTP I la DPE assistent obligatoirement & ces reunions. II semble opportun
d'inviter les directeurs des etablissements concernes I participer aux discussions les concernant.
C. Pour superviser le CRES, les cinq membres permanents (ou leurs representants accr6dites) se
reuniront avec le Directeur du CSET, le Chef du projet FAC et le Sous-Directeur EFTP I la DPE, les
representants de l'equipe du CRES, et eventuellement tout observateur dont la presence pourrait aider a la
discussion des points I l'ordre du jour. Le Directeur du CSET, en cooperation avec l'equipe du Centre, sera
responsable de la tenue et de l'administration de ces reunions, et notamment de la soumission, avant le 31
octobre de chaque annee, des rapports d'execution et previsionnel des annees correspondantes, et de la
transmission des rapports d'execution trimestriels.
D. Pour la eestion du FAAF, les cinq membres permanents (ou leurs representants accreditds) se
reuniront sur convocation du Sous-Directeur EFTP I la DPE pour examiner les dossiers soumis I l'agrement
du FAAF. L'approbation sera acquise & la majorite simple (trois des cinq representants permanents). Le
Sous-Directeur EFPI est responsable de l'administration du FAAF, conjointement avec l'Administrateur de
la DPE responsable des deboursements; iB devra donc recevoir les demandes d'appui, en verifier la conformite
par rapport aux procedures et critres d'eligibilite, finaliser la requ8te I soumettre au Directoire, et en suivre
l'execution, en particulier les 2 rapports I la clOture at six mois apres cette cloture pour tout projet d'appui
mis en oeuvre.



81
ANNEX9
Page 5 of 10
Termes de REference de L'Unite de Coordination du Projet (UCP)
1.             Objectifs. Pour aider le Gouvernement I atteindre les objectifs qu'il s'est fix6, le projet
fournit I travers l'Unite de Coordination du Projet (UCP) une assistance au Ministere du Plan pour gerer les
fonds, coordonner et suivre le projet -- dont les divers el6ments sont mis en oeuvre par les services des
Ministrea concernds (Education nationale, Fonction publique et Travail, Peche et Economie maritime) ou par
lea agences d'ex6cution, telle que le CRES I qui sera delegu&e des taches d'ex6cution.
2.             Fonctions. Chargee de suivre l'ex6cution du projet et d'evaluer des resultats qualitatifs et
quantitatifs, l'UCP supervise et coordonne les activites du projet, y compris toutes les liaisons avec les
differents services des Ministeres concernes, les autres ministares et services officiels intdresses par le projet,
et les bailleurs de fonds. Dans le cadre de ses activites quotidiennes, I'UCP a pour fonctions specifiques de:
(a)    coordonner tous les aspects de l'ex6cution du projet entre les divers services officiels
interesses,
(b)    veiller I ce que les coordonnateurs de chaque composante s'acquittent efficacement de leurs
fonctions;
(c)    organiser la passation des marches pour les travaux de genie civil et suivre 1'execution
physique et financiere des travaux d celle des marches de mobilier et de materiel --
notamment en preparant ou en aidant a preparer les dossiers d'appels d'offres, analysant les
offres, et presentant des recommandations pour l'attribution des marches, et s'assurant que
les marches sont passes conformement aux directives de l'IDA ou des autres bailleurs de
fonds;
(d)    s'assurer que les fournitures et approvisionnements achetes au titre du projet sont livrds I
leurs destinations et inscrits dans le registre central des avoirs;
(e)    organiser le recrutement des sp6cialistes et administrer les accords d'assistance technique et
les programmes de bourses d'6tudes;
(f)    suivre et contr6ler les dates d'achevement et les coOts des acquisitions;
(g)    assurer le flux satisfaisant et ponctuel des fonds aux 616ments du projet;
(h)    g6rer les d6caissements provenant du fonds d'appui aux activites de formation;
(i)    tenir lea comptes du projet selon des m6thodes comptables g6n6ralement acceptees;
G)     etablir les demandes de d6caissement des fonds du credit de l'IDA;
(k)    assurer le versement ponctuel, par le Gouvernement, des fonds de contrepartie du projet;
(I)    tenir les 6critures, y compris les 6critures financieres 1i6es I 1'ex6cution du projet;



82
ANNEX9
Page 6 of 10
(m)   priparer regulibrement lee rapports d'activitd et autres rapports devant &tre pr6sentds au
Directoire exEcutif, aux responsables des composantes des Ministeres int6ress6s par le projet
et aux bailleurs do fonds; et
(n)    orga_ser la pr6pamtion des futurs projets.
3.            Moyan. L'UCP est rattachee I la Direction des Projets Education du Ministbre du Plan, dont
le Directeur ausurera la supervision de ses activit6s. Les fonctions de l'UCP sem d6ldgu66e  un sous-
directeur pour le projet formation I plein temps, appuy6 par un administrateur-gestionnaire, un comptable,
et autr personnel de soutien appropri6.



83
ANNEX9
Page 7 of 10
Termes de Reference du Directeur-Adjoint de I'UCP
Chagd du Volet Formation
4.     Le sous-directeur cbarg6 de l'UCP est responsable de la bonne gestion et coordination du projet. A
ce titre, il veiWle a cc quo les moyens du projet soient utilis6s avec le maximum d'efficacit6 pour atteindre les
objoctifs fix6s en terme de rdsultats, conformdment aux accords pass6s avoc les bailleurs de fonds. D est
chargE plus pr6cis6ment des tAches suivantes:
(a)    Assurer une diffusion suffisante de la documentation relative au projet (rapports d'6valuation,
rapports d'activitds, accords de credit, documents de travail, directives des bailleurs de
fonds);
(b)    Pr6parer toute la documentation necessaire pour les examens annuels des plans d'actions par
le Directoire ex6cutif avec les bailleurs de fonds;
(c)    Assister les responsable des composantes dans la pr6paration de leurs plans de travail et de
leurs budgets annuels;
(d)    Controler les requ8tes pour un financement du Fonds d'appui aux op6rations de formation,
et leur conformitd au manuel des procedures;
(e)    Pr6paror et mettro en execution les dEcisions du Comite charge d'approuver les requetes du
Fonds d'appui;
(f)    Coordonner tous les aspects d'ex6cution du projet et donner l'impulsion necossaire I temps
voulu;
(g)    Veiller & cc quo lea responsables des diverses composantes assument efficacement leurs
fonctions;
(h)    Superviser les composantes et les unites de gestion, de passation dos march6s et de
comptabilit6 de l'UCP pour que les moyens pr6vus sur le projet (fournitures, travaux et
services) soient d6livr6es selon les programmes etablis en ce qui concerne les aspects
financiers et qualitatifs, et selon les procedures acceptables;
(i)    S'assurer que les fonds de contre partie nationale ou de co-financements soient mis en place;
0)     Approuver los mouvements de fonds;
(k)    Veiller a ce que tous les comptes des projets soient tenus selon des procedures comptables
acceptables par los bailleurs de fonds;
(1)    Signer tous les documents n6cessairas pour les demandes de retrait de fonds sur les comptes
de cr6dit, sur le Fonds d'appui I des operations de formation, les fonds de roulement et
comptes speciaux;
(m)    S'ussurer que toute la documentation requise sur le projet soit disponible et transmise aux
bailleurs de fonds selon leurs directives.



84
ANNE 9
Page 8 of 10
S.    OUALIPCATIONS REOUISES
(a)    etudes superieures (formation en gestion d'entreprises);
(b)    expErience d'au moins cinq (5) annees a un poste de responsabilit6 equivalente dan des
fonctions de gestion;
(c)    experience durant les cinq (5) dernibres annees dans le domaine de la programmation, de la
gestion des ressources humaines;
(d)    une bonne connaissance du secteur des entreprises;
6.            Le Directeur-Adjoint sera selectionnd apres interviews des candidats postulants et approbation
par le Directoire executif, en accord avec l'IDA.
7.            Conditions d'emploi. Lee conditions d'emploi feront l'objet d'un contrat de deux ans
renouvelable, I negocier avec le Gouvernement.
(a)    Lieu d'affectation:         Nouakchott
(b)    Dur&e du contrat:           Deux ans renouvelables (avec une duree maximum de 5
ans)
(c)    Date de prise de fonction:  Octobre 1993



85
ANNEX9
Page 9 of 10
Termes de RPfErence de l'Adndnistrateur-Gaetonnaire
8.            PlacE sous l'autorite de lI Direction des Projets Education, I'Administrateur Gestionnaire lui
rend compte de toutes les activites soumises I sa responsabilite hierarchique. II est responsable de tous
documents pour information et signature ddcisionnelle relatifs I la programmation, au suivi et I 1'ex6cution
des commandes, ddpenses et aoquisitions pour l'ensemble des activitds du projet. Plus precisement, il est
charge des tiches suivantes:
(a)    Avant le demarrap du proit mettre en RIace:
Le systeme de gestion et de circulation de l'information;
Le systeme de gestion comptable et financiere;
Les tableaux de visualisation des flux monetaires destinds aux differents responsables du
projet;
Les tableaux de suivi des acquisitions do biens et de services;
(b)    En ce qui concerne la geston financiere:
Elaborer les budgets annuels en liaison avec chaque composante et le Fonds d'appui aux
operations de formation;
Suivre les oprations financieres (engagements, retraits, reglements en monnaie de credit,
rapprochement bencaire);
Etablir les etats financiers du projet;
Veiller au respect du calendrier des activitds, et au maintien permanent du niveau des
liquidites;
Prdparer les lettres de commandes;
Viser les engagements et bons de commande qui seront presentEs I la signature du directeur;
PrEparer lea demandes de paiement et/ou remboursements qui seront prcsentes a la signature
du directeur;
(c)    En ce gui concerne la gation comptable:
Superviser le saisie des operations et veiller I la tenue des differents registres comptables;
Prendre tous lea arangements necessaires pour que les verifications des comptes soient
effectu6es selon la stipulations de l'Accord de Credit;
Donner le visa sur les dossiers de r*glement;
(d)    En cc gui ooncerne la gestion des marches et de stocks:
Superviser la programmation et l'utilisation des acquisitions de biens et de services.



86
ANNEX9
Page 10 of 10
9.     OUALIFICATIONS REOUISES
(a)    Etudes superieures (en economie, comptabilitd publique, gestion);
(b)    Experience d'au moins cinq (5) annees a un poste de responsabilite 4quivalente dans le
secteur prive ou la gestion de projets finances par des organismes de financement;
(c)    Experience dans le domaine de I'education, de la formation et des ressources humaines,
souhaitable, mais non decisive;
(d)    connaissance de systbme de gestion comptable et financiere indispensable.
10.   Conditions d'emploi. Les conditions d'emploi feront l'objet d'un contrat de deux ans renouvelable,
I negocier avec le Gouvernement. 11 s'agit d'un poste de contractuel.
(a)    Lieu d'affectation:         Nouakchott
(b)    Duree du contrat:           Deux ans renouvelables (avec une duree maximum de 5
ans)
(c)    Date de prise de fonction:  Octobre 1993



87
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
Training Sector Finance Study
Oudine Terms of Reference
1.           Obiectives. The Technical Education and Vocational Training (TEVT) Support Project has
been designed to establish a coherent unified training system staffed by national instructors, efficient and
responsive to the demands of the labor market. Although major expansion of the system is not foreseen under
this project, a combination of newly-opened vocational training centers built by other donors and increased
recurrent costs for technical education associated with teacher training and course quality improvement wil
require an increase in the recurrent budget for the sector. Although project and other donor financing will
meet short term recurrent costs needs, it is important to identify and develop financing mechanisms to ensure
that quantity and quality of training can be maintained over the long term.
2.            Sc    of Work. The central objective of the study would be to evaluate and analyze
alternative financing mechanisms for technical education, vocational training and maritime sector training. The
national budget should not be seen as the main financier of TEVT, and financing should be linked to the
proposed increased involvement of the private sector in training program development and management. The
study should therefore analyze the advantages and disadvantages of alternative financing mechanisms
(including examples listed below) including the legal issues raised by various options. After a decision has
been taken by the Government, the study should prepare an analysis of the measures necessary to introduce
the new system and draft any necessary legislation.
3.            Systems to be Analyzed. Among alternative options available, the study should consider:
(a)    Payroll tax: review the structure and collection of the existing payroll tax to ensure that
colected revenues meet the anticipated revenues.
(b)    Production tax: since payroll taxes may be considered a dis-incentive to employing labor,
production taxes have been suggested as an alternative form of revenue. However, because
the fluctuation in receipts from this tax is related to the economic performance of the sector,
it prevents medium term planning of training courses.
(c)    Tax incentives: small businesses are given a rebate on income tax of, say, up to twice the
cost of training workers. This system might be appropriate in encouraging shipowners to
contribute to ENEMP training costs.
(d)    Sale of training services: because TEVT has been publicly financed, no fees have been
charged either for individuals participating in training or enterprises requesting training
services for their workers. Although enrollment fees may weed out those consumers who
are seeking technical education as an entrance
into general secondary or higher education, they also introduce an element of inequity of
opportunity into the system.



88
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3
(e)    Sale of non-convenutonal svices: individual institutions should generate a certain
percentage of their own revenues, and can do so by charging for
associated services, such as advisory services on organization and production, technical work
in the areas of quality control, technological
dissemination or the sale of products made by students. A further advantage of this approach
is that it strengthens ties between institutions and employers.
4.            The study should be carried out in consultation with the business community, including the
Employers' Federation and representatives of the fishing and mining industries,  Government leaders,
employees representatives (UTM) and members of the informal sector. These should all be represented at
a public discussion of the findings of the study.
5.            Man-months of services. The study is expected to require eight months of internal expertise
and one month of external expertise. It will be carried out by the CRES, working with the assistance of a
foreign consulting firm familiar with resource mobilization issues. A national legal expert familiar with public
finanoe should develop the draft legal framework.
6.            rmue raEme. Consultants should be engaged by July 1993. Fnancing options should be
presented to the Government by May 1994, with the Government submitting its proposals to IDA for
discussion and comment no later than September 30, 1994, so that adequate budgetary provision can be made
to finanoe the incremental recurrent costs generated by the project beginning in FY95.



89
ANNEX 10
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA                             Page 3 of 3
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
Incremental Recurrent Expoenditures Gonerated by the Project /i
(in constant UM million)
Total
1994   1995   199    1297    1994-97
1. Technical Education 2
- replace local contracts                0.0   (4.0)   (4.0)   (4.0)   (12.0)
- replace French TA                      1.3    0.3    0.3      0.4       2.3
- fill vacancies                        0.9    2.7    2.7       2.7       9.0
- staff new programs (Boghe)            0.0    0.0    4.5       4.5       9.0
- new teacher datutes                   0.0    1.7    3.0       4.3       9.0
- operation of CRES                     3.0    5.0    5.0       5.0      18.0
- teacher training (CSEI)               2.0    4.0    6.0       6.0      18.0
- operating costs (schools)            Q0       2i 2. 2&                  8
Sub-total                                7.2   11.7   20.5    21.9       61.3
2. Vocational Trainina
- CFPRs                                 15.0   15.0   18.0    20.0       68.0
3. Maritime Trainin
- ENEMP operating costs                 0.0    0.0   10.0    20.0        30.0
- New teacher statutes                   .       a.     1.S     iA        S
Sub-total                                1.0    1.0   11.5    21.5       35.0
TOTAL (1 +2+3)                          23.2   27.7   50.0    63.4    164.3
/I Figuvs in p_realbus reP   savins.
/2 P1g  do at iclude osgoing bong4em Freb TA prognum.
Recurrent Expenditures and Revenues before and at the end of the Proiect
(in constant UM million)
1922         1222
A. Recurrent Expenditures
1. Technical Education                          167.2         189.6
2. Vocational Training                           33.8          53.8
3. Maritime Training                             VA           104
TOTAL                                        288.6        347.5
B. yevenue
1. Employer Contributions
- Direct                                       3.0         43.0
- Indirect (training tax)                     23.0         45.0
2. Donor Support /i                              33.0           0.0
3. General Fiscal Revenue                       229           2S9.
TOTAL                                        288.6        347.5
11 Subje to changes during projed iplenioL.



9C                                    ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 7
|~ ~~~~~ R f SS                   ... .. . .
'   .   .   . .   .  ..  .    .
...    ..   .     .. .- .
. . ". .Sll . . .' .S; .. . 
*      2! M  Sj38 *  01iet! 
Is 1i*R   IT
liii       I           1jij    11            11-1      -
I~~I
3    st~~~11111    I\
{X}W1f       .                          -.i  - -11



lamimic Pepublcof. Mountais.
T.chnical Education nd Vocational Trsiin_ Support Pt
-Ameemwd bEbadown
(US$ '000
Be"       Cont.
Co.t +      Phi
e" Ct                   Phyaoet Coontlnoao       P_i_ Conthuoaohnc               Total logO. Coo.    PClse      pris
lOOM                         Loal                    LOca                          LOOee               Colt. on   Cont. on
For.     gEoL                  For.   lEus.            Fo.    (Esud.               For.     (ExdL                 on"      Phmodi
Exbo.    Teaesl       Totdl    Eaah.  Taxes)   Total   EEoh.   Tssenl    Total     EXOi.    Taxes)      Total     Coot       Cent.
L. hoselot. Cooft
A. CPvi WOISU
Nw Construction                      2,291.0    7s6.5      3,077.4  229.1    73.6   307.7  202.1   127.1       323.1    2,722.1    S32.2    3,714.3    3,376.6      337.7
RehobKation                            77.3      26.8        104.7    7.8      2.7    10.5    S.6      6.4      14.1       34.3     34.3       123.2     117.6       11.7
Subtotad CWL WORKS                     2,3t6.3    *13.2      3,182.1  236.3    81.3   318.2  210.7   132.5       343.2    2,016.6   1,027.0    3,843.6    3,494.1     343.4
*. Equoteot
Predgogioa Equipgmnt                 2.750.3        -      2,750.3  143.8            149.6  16S.1              1168.1    3.068.3       *    3.066.3   2,907.4       160.6
Office Equpment and Supplies          687.0                 567.0   41.1              41.1   40.2        -      40.2      66.3                866.3      624.6       43.7
Vehiclh                               323.3         -        326.3   16.4        -    16.4   29.8       2-.6              374.6        -       374.6     366.7       17.6
Subteotai qulnut                       3.66567        -      3,665.7  207.3            207.3  236.1              238.1    4,111.1        -     4,111.1    3,8868      222.4
C. Funium                               289.3      33.2        323.1   20.3      2.3    22.6   20.1      4.2      24.3      330.3     33.7      363.3      346.7       24.2
D. Cotee_ut Sevds.
Interational Spocierits              1,323.7        -      1,323.7   60.2             9 80.2  223.0      -     223.0    2.242.9              2,242.9    2,141.3     101.1
Lcal Specialts                        183.3    440.4         623.7    3.2    22.0    31.2   26.5   119.7       146.3      213.0   652.2       S01.1      763.0      38.1
A,cldEnqwSup                          368.3      39.3        396.8   17.3      2.0    19.3   27.0      5.5      32.6      403.3     47.3      461.2      423.7       21.5
S10etaIC_Auat _lSouioe                 2,466.3    480.3      2,346.2  117.3    24.0   141.3  282.5   125.2       407.7    2.86.7    629.6    3,496.2    3,334.6      160.7
E. Trbubug
Foeign Tra_ning                      1,370.0        -      1,370.0   40.0        -    40.0  126.1        -     126.1    1,636.1        -    1,636.1    1,490.1       46.0
Local Tra.g"                           26.5      63.7         90.2    1.3      3.2     4.6    2.4    10.6       13.0       30.2     77.4       107.6     102.5       6.1
Stbotdl Tlining                        1,336.5     63.7      1,460.2   41.3      3.2    44.5  128.6    10.6      138.1    1,66t.3     77.4    1,643.8    1,692.6       51.1
F. Traiing Support Find                 240.0    660.0         600.0      -        -       -      -                  -      240.0    660.0      800.0      800.0          -
G. Preitrw.trnt Studi                   100.0    100.0         200.0    5.0      6.0    10.0                                106.0    106.0      210.0      200.0       10.0
TotalhwaetmaioCose                      10,526.3   2,060.3    12,577.3  629.1   115.8   744.0  879.9   272.6   1.162.3   12,034.9   2,438.6   14,473.6   13,666.7       317.6
I. Reowamnt Costs
A. Opeating Cost,                       536.9    362.6         899.6   23.7    16.3    40.0   37.7    46.7        66.4      688.3    427.6    1,026.9      376.1      47.6
8. Increrental Staff Ct                           642.0        642.0      .    32.1    32.1       .   164.5      164.6          -    828.       828.6      789.2       39.6
Totl Rosurrt Coot.                        536.9  1,.004.6      1,41.5   23.7    48.4    72.1   37.7   203.3        241.0      698.3   1,256.3 _1,8S46    1.767.3        87.3
Total                                   11,063.6   3,056.0     14,118.8  651.8   164.2   816.0  317.6   476.7   1,393.3   12,633.2  3,6894.9   16,328.1   15,423.0      906.1
OQ 2:
0T
MTEABAK.XLS.5/20S'93



Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Technical Education and Vocational Training Support Project
Project Components by Year - Total Including Contingrnci..
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1994      1996       1996      1997      1998      Total
A. Maintain Quality and Improve Efficiency of Technical Education
1. Resource Center for Technical and Vocational Education (CRES)                     1,833.5     431.3      364.1      393.5   154.7    3,177.2
2. Technical Teacher Training (CSET)                                                   325.8   1,113.5      672.5      589.6    80.0    2,781.4
3. Support Fund for Technical Education                                                 80.0       80.0      80.0       80.0    80.0       400.0
4. Strengthen Agricultural Technician Training                                         338.2                    -          -       -      338.2
Subtotal Maintin Quality and Improve Efficiency of Technical Education                  2,577.5   1,624.8   1,116.6   1,063.2   314.7    6,696.8
B. Revitalize the Vocational Training System
1. Institutional Framework (CFFP and CFPR)                                             431.8     683.2       60.0          -       -    1,175.0
2. Support Fund for Informal Sector Training                                            40.0      112.0     112.5      113.0    73.5      450.9
Subtotal Revitaliza the Vocational Training System                                       471.8      795.2     172.5      113.0    73.5    1,625.9
C. Support Maritire Sector Training
1. New Facilties for Maritime Training School                                        3,232.2   1,600.9      297.7          -       -    5,130.7
2. Program Developmeant and Staff Training                                             104.0     288.2      274.4       90.7       -      757.3
Subtotal Support Maritime Sector Training                                               3,336.2   1,889.0     572.2       90.7       -    5,888.1
D. Sector Planning and Management
1. Planning and Management                                                             314.6      59.3       62.1       11.6    12.4      460.0
2. Project Management                                                                  153.6     427.8      326.3     344.7   194.9    1,447.3        5
3. Pre-Investrent Studies                                                               52.5       52.5      52.5       52.5       -       210.0
Subtotal Sector Planning and Management                                                  520.7      539.6     440.9      408.8   207.2    2,117.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                     6,906.2   4,848.7   2,302.2   1,675.7   595.4   16,328.1
Oq Z
'tSI
o 
MTCOMYRT.XLS,5/20/93



Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Technical Education and Vocational Training Support Project
Expenditure Accounts by Year. - BaSs CostS
IUS$ o000o
Foreign
Bass Cost                           Exchange
1994     1995      1996      1997    1998      Total      S      Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. CWIL WORKS
New Construction                     1,758.5   1,088.6    230.3         -      -    3,077.4   74.4    2,291.0
Rehabilitation                            -    104.7          -         -      -      104.7   74.4        77.9
SubtotalCIVILWORKS                     1,758.5   1,193.3    230.3         -      -    3,182.1    74.4    2,368.9
B. EqUIpment
Pedagogical Equipment                1,807.8    942.5                   -      -    2,750.3  100.0    2,750.3
Office Equipment and Supplies         519.5      67.5         -         -             587.0  100.0       587.0
VehcleS                               112.2    216.1          -         -      -      328.3  100.0       328.3
Subtotal Equipment                     2,439.6   1,226.1        -         -      -    3,665.7  100.0    3,665.7
C. Furniture                            284.5      34.4       4.2         -      -      323.1   89.7       289.9
D. Contractual Services
International Specialists             662.6    433.0    383.4    310.7  134.0    1,923.7  100.0    1,923.7
Local Specialists                     125.7    141.1    141.1    141.1   74.8         623.7   29.4       183.3
Arch/Eng/Sup                          279.5    119.3          -         -      -      398.8   90.0       358.9
Subtotal Contractual Services          1,067.8    693.4    524.5    451.7  208.8    2,946.2   83.7    2,465.9
E. Training
ForeignTraining                        41.6    409.7    601.9    316.9         -    1,370.0  100.0    1,370.0
Local Training                         42.4      37.1      10.6         -      -       90.2   29.4        26.5
Subtotal Training                        84.0    446.8    612.5    316.9          -    1,460.2   95.6    1,396.5
F. Training Support Fund                120.0    180.0    180.0    180.0  140.0         800.0   30.0       240.0
G. Pre-inveStment Studies                50.0      50.0      50.0      50.0      -      200.0   50.0       100.0
Total Investment CostS                   5,804.4   3,824.0   1,601.4    998.6  348.8   12,577.3   83.7   10,526.9
Il. Recurrent Costs
A. Operating CostS                      149.9    199.9    199.9    199.9  149.9         899.5   59.7       536.9
B. Incremental Staff Cost               160.5    160.5    160.5    160.5         -      642.0       -
Total Recurrent CostS                     310.4    360.4    360.4    360.4  149.9    1,541.5   34.8          536.9
TotadBASELINECOSTS                       6,114.8   4,184.4   1,961.8   1,359.0  498.8   14,118.8   78.4   11,063.8
Physical Contingencies                  406.4    248.8       86.4      58.9   15.4      816.0   79.9       651.8
Price Contingencies                     385.0    415.4    253.9    257.7   81.2    1,393.3   65.9          917.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                      6,906.2   4,848.7   2,302.2   1,675.7  595.4   16,328.1   77.4   12,633.2
Foreign Exchange                       5,791.9   3,830.3   1,614.3   1,052.2  344.4   12,633.2      -          -
OQ z
(D M
o
MTEAYRB1 .XLS,5120/93



Ilaric Republic of Mauritani
Technical Education nd Vocatonal Training Support Project
ExpendItue Accounts by Yeam - Total hAudlng ContingencIes
(USS '0001
Tota Including Conthngencims
1994      1996      1996      1997    1998      Total
1. 1nveatmant Coat
A. CIL WORKS
New Conetruction                     2,072.8   1.343.7    297.7          -      -    3,714.3
Rehabilitation                             -    129.2          -         -      -      129.2
Subtotal CIVIL WORKS                   2,072.8   1,472.9    297.7          -       -    3,843.5
3. EquIpment
Pedagogical Equipment                1,995.7   1,072.6         -         -      -    3,068.3
Office Equipment and Supplies          588.8      79.5         -         -      -      668.3
Vhicles                                124.8    249.7                           -      374.5
SubtotalEquipment                      2,709.3   1,401.9         -             -        4,111.1
C. Furniture                             324.0      40.8       5.2         -       -     369.9
D. Contractua Services
International Specialists              730.2    491.0    460.3    387.5  173.7    2,242.9
Local Specialists                      144.3     171.9     182.4    193.6  109.0       801.1
Arch/EnglSup                           312.3     139.0         -         -      -      451.2
Subtotal Contractual Services          1,186.8    801.8    642.7    581.2  282.7    3,495.2
E. Traning
Foreign Training                        46.2    429.1      665.5    395.3       -    1,536.1
Local Training                          48.7      45.2      13.7         -             107.6
Subtotal Tranig                           94.9    474.3    679.2    395.3          -    1,643.8
F. Training Support Fund                 120.0    180.0      180.0    180.0  140.0       800.0
G. Pre-investrnent Studies                52.5      52.5      52.5      52.5       -     210.0
Total Investment Costs                   6,560.3   4,424.3   1,857.3   1,209.0  422.7   14,473.6
I. Recurrent Costs
A. Operating Costs                       159.3    224.7      231.2    238.1  172.7    1,025.9
B. Increnental Staff Cost                186.6    199.7      213.7    228.6       -      828.6
Total Recurrent Coats                      345.9    424.4    444.9    466.7  172.7    1,854.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                       6,906.2   4,848.7   2,302.2   1,675.7  595.4   16,328.1
oQ z
m
L-
0 9
MTEAYRB. XLS,5120/93



lslamic Republic of Mauritania
Tachnical Education and Vocatonal Training Support Project
Expenditur Accounts by Financiers
IUS$ '000)
Local
Government           IDA             FAC               Total         For.     IExdI.
Amount    %      Amount      %    Amount    %       Amount              Exch.    Taxes)
1. Invketent Costs
A. C1ML WORKS
New Construction                      619.8   16.7    3,094.5   83.3        -       -    3,714.3   22.7    2,722.1    992.2
Rehabilitation                            -      -      129.2  100.0        -       -      129.2    0.8       94.3      34.9
Subtotal CIVIL WORKS                    619.8   16.1    3,223.7   83.9         -      -    3,843.5   23.5    2,816.5   1,027.0
B. Equipment
Pedagogical Equipment                     -      -    2,458.3   80.1   610.0   19.9    3,068.3   18.8    3,068.3
Office Equipment and Supplies             -      -      668.3  100.0        -       -      668.3    4.1      668.3
Vehicles                                  -      -      374.5  100.0        -       -      374.5    2.3      374.5
Subtotal Equipment                          -      -    3,501.1   85.2   610.0   14.8    4,111.1    25.2    4,111.1
C. Fumiture                                 -      -      369.9  100.0        -       -      369.9    2.3      330.3      39.7
D. Contractual Servicee
International Speciadists                 -      -    2,122.9   94.6   120.0    5.4    2,242.9   13.7    2,242.9
Local Specialists                     196.0   24.5      605.2   75.5        -       -      801.1    4.9      219.0    582.2
Arch/Eng/Sup                              -      -      451.2  100.0        -       -      451.2    2.8      403.9      47.3
Subtotal Contractual Services           196.0    5.6    3,179.3   91.0   120.0    3.4    3,495.2   21.4    2,865.7    629.5
E. Training
Foreign Training                          -      -      966.1   62.9   570.0   37.1    1,536.1    9.4    1,536.1
Local Training                            -      -      107.6  100.0        -      -       107.6    0.7       30.2      77.4
Subtotal Training                                  -    1,073.8   65.3   570.0   34.7    1,643.8   10.1    1,566.3        77.4
F. Training Support Fund                    -      -      400.0   50.0   400.0   50.0        800.0    4.9      240.0    560.0
G. Pre-investment Studies                          -      210.0  100.0        -       -      210.0    1.3      105.0    105.0
Total hnvestnwnt Cost                     815.8    5.6   11,957.8   82.6  1,700.0   11.7   14,473.6   88.6   12,034.9   2,438.6
N. Recurent Costs
A. Operating Costs                       69.2    6.7      456.7   44.5   500.0   48.7    1,025.9    6.3        598.3    427.6
S. hncrmental Staff Cost                828.6  100.0          -       -       -       -      828.6    5.1          -    828.6
Total Recurrent Costs                     897.8   48.4      456.7   24.6   500.0   27.0    1,854.6   11.4        598.3   1,256.3
Total Disbusenwnt                        1,713.6   10.5   12,414.5   76.0  2,200.0   13.5   16,328.1  100.0   12,633.2   3,694.9
Ih
MTEXPFIN.XLS,5/20/93                                                                                                                      _



ldlmuc Republic of Mauritanis
Technicd Education nd Vocational Trsning Support Proict
Corepmiuu by Paimuim
(US$ *000
Govenmet              DA               FAC                Total         For.      lEad.
Amout      %      Amunt       %     Amoun      %       Amount      %       Eich.     Taxes)
A. Maintai flunky m *nd bone Effld.y of Tednle Edlan
1. Rsource Canter for Tchnicl nd Vocational Education ICFtES)                      1,092.6   34.4    1,434.8   45.2    850.0    20.5    3,177.2    19.5    2,514.3    862.8
2. Technical Teecher Traring (CSETI                                                 414.3    14.9    1,367.1    49.2  1,000.0   36.0    2.781.4    17.0    2,207.1       574.3
3. Support Fund for Technical Education                                                 .       -           -       -   400.0   100.0       400.0     2.4      120.0     280.0
4. Strengthen Agriculturl Technician Tranng                                                            338.2  100.0 _                       338.2     2.1      255.8       82.6
Subtotal Mbitain OCamlymdhyroveEMp- utoTeyof Tedn*o Ediuomtion                       1,506.9   22.5    3,139.9   46.9  2,050.0    30.8    8,698.8    41.0    5,097.0   1,599.8
S. Reeltake the VomtdmIel Trubig Sytm
1.  titutional Frwwwoulk CFFP end CFPRI                                                 *             1,025.0   87.2    150.0    12.8    1,175.0      7.2    1,093.1      81.9
2. Support Fund for lnforma Sector Trining                                                      -      450.9  100.0             .   .       450.9     2.8      170.9     280.0
Suibota PRev-izl the Voadil Trag System                                                   .       .    1,475.9    90.8    150.0      9.2    1,625.9    10.0    1,264.0      361.9
C. Support MwMma Sector Trinift
1. Now Fecities for At    Training School                                               *       -    5,130.7   100.0         *       -    5,130.7    31.4    4,302.8     827.9
2. Progrm Development nd Staff Training                                                 -              757.3  100.0          *              757.3    4.8       757.3
Subtota Suppor Muiume Sector Tru-ig                                                                     5,088.1   100.0        -            5,888.1    36.1    5,060.2      827.9
D. Sector PImlubug end Ul_megmmt
1. Panning nd Managent                                                                  -              480.0  100.0                  -      480.0     2.8      400.8      59.4
2. Project Management                                                               208.7   14.3    1,240.6   85.7           -       -    1,447.3     8.9      708.4     741.0
3. Pro-investment Studies                                                               -              210.0  100.0         -        *      210.0     1.3      105.0     105.0
Tota DiOburanet                                                                      1,713.8   10.5   12,414.5    76.0  2,200.0    13.5   16,328.1   100.0   12.33.2   3,694.9
OQ Z
ON
M-
MTCOMFIN.XLS,5/20/93



97
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Monitoring and Supervision Plan
1.1      IDA Supervision Input. Supervision needs are described in Table 1 of this Annex. In
addition, specific tasks such as review of progress reports, terms of reference, annual work plans,
audits, and procurement and disbursement actions, are estimated to require a further 8 staff weeks
of various specialist inputs which are not included in Table 1.
1.2       Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)    progress R§Vorts would be prepared by the PCU and submitted to IDA twice a year
(October and April). They would include a summary of implementation progress under
each component, financial statements of project expenditures, updated procurement and
implementation schedules, as well as the status of contract advertising, bidding, awards
and completion dates.
(b)   Joint annual reviews. In September of each year, the PCU would organize a joint
IDA/FAC/Government review of project implementation, based on the progress report
mentioned in the paragraph above, supplemented by (i) an annual work program and
draft budget for the next academic year; and (ii) the status of policy and project
monitoring indicators as listed in Table 2.
(c)    Mid-term  Review. The PCU would carry out, jointly with IDA and FAC, and to the
extent available, with other donors affiliated with the project (UNDPIILO, EDF), no
later than September 1995, a mid-term review of progress made in carrying out the
project. The review would cover all aspects of the project, but would focus on: (i)
recruiting, training and deploying technical teachers and vocational instructors; (ii) the
functioning of the training support fund and the results of training activities supported
by the fund; (iii) employer participation in developing, operating and financing the
technical education and vocational training system; (iv) the tranfer of system financing
to the private sector. Based on the review, the Government would, through the project's
executive committee, prepare and implement an action plan, acceptable to IDA, for
further implementation of the project.
(d)    The PCU would be responsible for coordinating arrangements for IDA supervision
missions and participating in them, and for organizing the annual and mid-term reviews
of project implementation.
(e)    Project Completion Report.  Within six months of the credit closing date, a project
completion report, prepared in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA,
would be transmitted to IDA.



98
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
Table 1: SUPERVISION PLAN
MDA FY &                                Activity                                  Skill             Staff
Appmox. dat                                                                    Requirements         Weeks
FY 94         Prearation for and implmentation of Project launch       Civil WorkslProc Spec       6
September 1993    workshop                                                 Disbursement Officer
Tech/Voc Educator
Economist/Project Mgr
FY 94         Supervision Mission:
Feb.-Marca 1994    Review progres in bid document and procedural maulI     Civil Works/Proc Spec        6
preparation, contait slection and recruitaeat, PCU      TechNoc Educator
operaions, teacher-trainer recitmeant and training, initil  EconoamWProj Mgr.
outputs of observatoire d'emploi,' TOR for consultant to  Ftnancial Analyst
promote womea's acceu to training, FY budget allocations
to training institutions for maintenance and rehabilitation, and
site preparation for Maritime training school
FY 95         lot Joint Annual Review:                                 Civil Works/Proc Spec.      6
September 1994    Review progress of past year and plan for coming year    Tech/Voc Educator
including adjusutmnt of criteria and allocations for TSP if  EconomuatlProj Mgr.
necessry, preparation of in-service trainiang programs for  Informal Sector Spec.
vocationAl trining instnctor, procurement of goods and
ervices, TORs for consultans, counterpart and donor
progms, budgetary allocations, and project accounting and
suditing
FY 9S
Febc-Mare 1995    Supervision Mision                                       Sam   s above                5
FY 96         2nd Joint Annual and Mid-Term Review:                    Economist                   6
Septembe 1995    Comprehensive review of prject inputs, operations and     Civil Works/Proc Spec
outcomes. Reructure project if necemry.                 Project Management
Tech/Voc Educator
FY 96
Feb.-Matcb 1996    Supervision Mision                                      Same u above                 4
FY 97
September 1996    3rd Joint Anmial Review                                  Same as above               4
FY 97
Feb-March 1997    Supervision Mission                                      Same as above                4
FY 98
September 1997    4th Joint Animal Review                                  Same as above               4
FY 98
Peb.-March 199    Project Completon Mission                                To be determinoed            4



99                                     ANNEX 13
Page 1 of .4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule and Procurement Arrangements
1.             All procurement actions have been detailed in view to determine the size of the bidding
package, while taking in account the time by which works, goods or services are required to respond to the
objectives of the project.
2.             The following table shows at the same time, the activities which have to be undertaken
prior to the execution of the contracts, as weDl as the implementation schedule of the execution. They are
expressed by letters and situated at the time when they are planned to occur. The first part of the table
deals with procurement of Works and Goods, and the second part is for Specialist Services (consultants),
Training and others Miscellaneous expenditures.
3.             The tables also indicate the procurement procedure to be followed for each contract to be
financed form the proceeds of the IDA Credit. When the sources of financing is not the IDA Credit, there
is in the procurement method column either NBF/G or NBF/F to indicate that the financing is by the
Government or France respectively.
4.             The last column shows either the number of contract or bid packages for the works and
the goods, or the number of men.months for the Services. Finally ,all the figures are recapitulated, by year
and source of financing.



PROCURtEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
PIG Project           ______               ______Project Year                      ______                                                         Poue            #of
1993                1994                 1996                1990                 1997                1098                 Totol            -mont       Packeae
Project EIamaents0Uarters                    .L ......    ..2..3..                  .      .I..I.           ........            ....I....1I....I..                         Payment           Method       Contracts
board            x
Snntsur.jEIIaciweneealCloeki                          x         N____                                      __________                                                   ________
A. WORKS
1. CRES                                                                        us2a                                                                                                   e2o    N8FIG             I
wwwwwwl_ _ _ _ __ _ __ _                                                       _ _ _ _
2. BOGHE                                                                      296                                                                                                   296    Ice 
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                w wwVr.w w w   _   _    _   _                             _   _    _   __                            _    _   _
3. CFPPICFPR AhRabStation                                                                          129                                                                               126    LCBS
n- ddbbaacwwww__ _                                         ___ _ _ _
4. ENELhP
Selection o4 ur    eot aen Short
iset A.01oEvalisdlonlContract                   ddlbbec
DlamethadI           I.sauomdddd bbe
Bid Awwd suhndttad to IDA                                      -
Cortract SionfWtoMA.Iorka swwwwww
DIsbursemet12591                                                                                 1269                  230 ______2796.  KC                                                                     1
B. GOODS
P.daoelmal Equipment                                                                                                                                                                              3068
CFAES                                                          ddbbecwww
120                                                                                                   120   OTH                  1
400_____                   _____                 ____                                                 400    NBFIF
CSET                                                                                ddbbacwwww%
490-                                                                              490   Ice                 30
___________                              ~~~~~210                                                                           210    NBF/FI
CFppIFpas                                                      ddbbacwwwww
________________________   ___________200                                     214     _   _   _  _  _                           _  _   _  _  _                  420       OTH              4
ENELiP                                                        ~~~~~~~~ddhbscavwwnw    w
________________________   ___________                                  ~~~12101w             219                          _____                          1428        Ice             3
Olfics Equipmtert    Suppl.                                                                                                                                                                        068
CItES                                                          ddbbocwwww%
_______________________   __________13 8                                               _   _  _   _  __                           _   _  _   _                  136       OTH1
CFPP/CFPR                                                      ddhbbcwwwwv
______ _____ ______ ___   _ ______     _                         ___    ______       _____9___                                                                     9      OTH              2
ENEMP                                                                               ddbb.mrmmww
________________________                ___________                      ~~177                                                                             177        Ice             1
DIRECTORATES                                                                        ddbbacnuvww
__________________________   ___________                                 ~237                        _    _  _  _   _      _  _  _   _  _                  237       OTH              2
PCU                                                                                            wwww 
________________________               ___________                        ~~~69                      __   _  _  _  _       _  _  _  _  _                      9      0TH              2
Vehicls                                                        ddbbecwwwww                                                                                                                         376
CFPPt+PCU +Directorstss                                                       195 ddbbecwwwww                                                                                       195    Ice                 1
CFPR    e.  CItES                           __     _   _   _     _   __     _   _1                    0   _   __     _   _     _   _   __     _    _   _    _   _                    190       Ice 
FLwnku,e                                                                                                                                                                                           370
CItES                                                                     wwww                                                                                                                                                                               O 
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   24  _ _ _ _ _      _   _  _   _       _  _   _  _   _   _   _  _   _  _                     24       0TH             I1
ENEMP                                                                               ddbbacmmnww
____________ ___________ ____________   ___________34 0                           _  _   _  _  _       _  _  _  _   _      _  _  _   _  _                  34 08  ~                   1 
r: recruitment of consultant - d: bid  docsALoilTdr - b: bidding  period - a: evaluation  - a: approval (Bank/Govtl -                                                 NBFIG: Financed  by Government
.c: contr%A        %           -2.  mi4lNqeg               anufacturinl  - W: Works.  supplyfinstalaltion  or execution of services                                   NBFIF: Financed by Franc



Pre project    _______   _______Project Year                                                               Procure     Iof
_________________________  1993           1994           1995            1996           1997           1998           Total        -mant   Packages
Project Eloments%Quarters      .1.l.2-.I-3-.I.4.. .1.I.2-.I-3-1I.4.. .1.I.-2-.I-3-..4.. .1.I.2-.I-3..I4.. .1.l.2..I.3..I4.. .1.I.2-.l-3..l4..   Payment  Method   Contracts
C. SPECIALISTS SERVICES
LOIITORs/Sh. L. for Approval                  dde             dde            dde            dde                                                     429m.mth
Award/Contact review by IDA                        sac            sac            sac            aac                                                   in total
- Specialist /internationtal                       wwwwww wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  wwwww                                                 2243
1. CRES/Long term                                        122            244            244            244             122            978    OTH        n.a.
Short Term                                                24              49             24                                           98    OTH         n.e.
Short Term                                                                20             20              20                           eo   NBF/F        n.e.
2. CSETIShort Term                                        24             49              24                                           se    0TH        n.a.
Short Term                                                                z0             20             20                             eo   NBF/F       n.e.
3. CFPP/Short Term                                        86             86                                                          171    0TH         n.e.
4. Fund Technical Audit/Sh. Term                                          12             12             12             12             49    0TH        n.e.
5. ENEMPALong Term                                       122            181             186                                          489    0TH         n.e.
Short Term                                             49             49              49                                          147    0TH        n.e.
6. PCU/tntornational/Audit                     _______23                                 23             23             23             93    0TH   In.e.
- Spec. or Local Serviceu                                                                                                                    801
1. CRES                                                    16             is             1s             1i                            be   NBFIG       n.e.
2. Directorates/LocallShort Term                      -~11                11             11             11             11             65    0TH         n.s.
3. PCUjLocal support staff                                28              28             28             28             28            138   NBF/G        n.e.
4. PCU/ Long Term               7_____                      5            137            137            137             64            650    0TH         n.a.
- Arch/Eng./Supvn                                                                                                                               451
1. CFPPIRehab.                                                            18                                                          18    OTH        n.e.
2. CET-BOGHE                                              42                                                                          42    OTH        n.e.
3. ENEMP                                  1471           122             122 _ ___            ____                                   391    0TH         n.e.
Ui. I KAINIINU
- Foreign Training                                                                                                                             1536
1. CRESIFeIlowships                                                       30             30             30                             W0   NSF/F      n.e.
2. CSETIStage end Fshps                                                  189            189            189            201            767    OTH        n.e.
Stages                                                    120            120            120             120                           400   NBF/F      n.e.
3. Directorates/study tours                                               36             37                                           73    0TH        n.e.
4. ENEMP                        _ ____63                                  63                                                         126    0TH        n.e.
- Local Training                                                                                                                             106
Directoretes/Somjinars                                                    13             14                                           27    OTH        n.e.
CFPP/restructurirg                                       30.5           30.5                                                          61    0TH         n.e.
PCU                                                        18                                                                         18l  0TH         n.e.
E. MISCELLANEOUS                                                                                                                            2866
SUPPORT FUNDS              IDA                            40             100            100            100             60            400    OTH         n.e.
FAC                             40            100            100            100             00            400    NBF        n.a.
PRE-INVEST. STUDIES                                       53             53              53             53                           210    OTH        n.e.
OPERATING COSTS          IDA                              83            101             126            122             95            627    OTH        n.e.
FAC                            110            130            130            130                           600    NBF        n.a.               , -0
GOVT                                            207            207            207            207            8291  NBF         n.a.           ~     
TOTAL IDA                       147           2881           57981          16771           8911           589          12481                                     
NBF                            0            1243            9141           8421           6421           267           3848                                 L
TOTAL COST                       14             124           67121          23191          15331           856          163271____   ___
o  L2
r: recruitment of consuitant - d: bid docs/LoifTdr - b: bidding period -e: evaluation - a: approval (BanklGovt) -         NBF/G: Financed by Government
C: ContraCt signature - m: mobilization/manufacturing - w: works, supplyAinstallation or execution of services           INBF/F: Financed by France                       4
MTPROCT7.XLS-5/1 9/93-11:15 AM



102
ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 4
Prior Review Threshold, Contract Profile by Value/Number
Estimated            Cumulative            Percentage
Range of             value (no.) of        value (no.)           of total
Contract values      contracts within      above                 value (no.)
(ncl. Contingencies)    each range         threshold             above
(US thousand)        (US million)          (US million)          threshold
1                    2                     3                     4
GOODS
Value     Number    Value       Number    Value       Number
350 and above               0.8          2        0.8          2       27%        10%
200 to 349                  0.6          2        1.4          4       46%        19%
120to 199                   1.3          9        2.7         13       89%        62%
Threshold
30Oto 119                   0.3          7        3.0         20       99%        95%
0 to 29                     0.0          1        3.1        21       100%       100%
Duration of procurement is about three years
WORKS
Value     Number    Value       Number    Value       Number
1,000 and above             2.8          1        2.8          1       87%        33%
500 to 999                  0.0          0        2.8          1       87%        33%
200 to 499                  0.3          0        3.1          2       96%        67%
Threshold
30to 120                    0.1          1        3.2          3      100%       100%
0 to 29                     0.0          0        3.2          3      100%       100%
Duration of procurement is about two years
* Threshold selection correspond to a desirable percentage coverage of contract value (around 89%
for goods and 96% for works)
COSTCOM7.XLISI1 /31



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION & VOCATIONAL TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
Disbursement PmvfU/ProU de Dboutments
06burownwftl  Prorw  *h -Edution Proect                                                    Re&ional Soctor Prof e
D fiD   a  yam  wena
qu            OBy ut    Cumadv        Cr.d                                    100.00%
S..Uw aMr
A,mg.a budgomr                                     I.aad.
IDA at &k**rnea   Per hu.ave   cuamuiaw  -Crest  ,.gdawra.                         90.00%                                         5
1004       1                                         0.00%                          8.0
2                          ]              100%
3            0.6.        0.6    4.|00     2.00%/
4            0.7         1.3   10.40%     3.00%                         70.00%
lef       1             0.7         2.0   16.00%    7.00%                     3
2            0.0         2.0   22.40%    10.00%                                                               /
3            o.e         3.6   23.80%    15.00%                         60.00%
4            0.3         4.6   30.00%    16.00                      5/
1is"       1             0.0        5.4   43.20%    22.00%
2            1.0         6.4   51.20%    27.00%                         60.00%
3            1.1         7.5  e0.00%    30.00%                     3'
4            1.2         0.7   69.00S   34.00%                      1   40.00%
1107       1             1.1         0.0   70.40A   3e.00%                                                                                                                     0
2            0.7        10.5   84.00%    42.00%
3            0.5        11.0   ".O0%    46.00%                          30.00%
4            0.5        1 1.5    2.00%   50.00oo 
101        1             0.5        12.0  "0.O0%    *4.00%                         20.00%
2            0.5        12.  100.00%    60.00%                          20g 00
o  10.00%            7/f
0.00%  I
~~__
O1'
a  a   a          a~~~~~~



104
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
1.     Baccar, Taoufik: Etude sur l'Adeauation Entre I'Emploi. I'Education et la Formation. September 1987.
2.     Ministere du Plan, Office national de la Statistique: Enguete Permanente sur les Conditions de Vie des
Mena2es en Mauritanie (EPCV). June 1990.
3.     ALESCO: Les Relations Formation-Emvloi en Republigue Islamiqiue de Mauritanie: Bilan et
Perspectives. June 1991.
4.     Charmes, Jaques: La Contribution du Secteur Infornel a l'EmDloi et au Produit National en
Mauritanie: 1977-1992. November 1992.
5.     Direction de l'Enseignement Technique: Recherches et Extrapolations sur les EmRlois: Horizon 2000.
November 1992.
6.     Industry and Energy Division, Sahel Department: Fisheries Sector Study. December 1992.
7.     Ministere du Plan, Direction des Ressources Humaines: Draft sur l'Etude des Mechanismes du Marche
du Travail en Mauritanie. January 1993.
8.     Proiet de Loi Portant Statut General des Fonctionnaires et A2ents Contmctuels de l'Etat. Not dated.
9.     DFP: Programmne d'Action de la Direction de Formation Professionnelle. February 1992.
10.    DET: Plan d'Urgence de Formation des PET (1992-1996). March 1992.
I1.    SODETEG: Etudes sur les Filieres Enseignement Technique. Document Provisoire, May 1992.
12.    DFM, ENEMP, DPE: Construction de I'ENEMP a Nouadhibou. October 1992.
13.    Travaux de Comite de Preparation de Proiet d'ADDui a I'EFTP. December 1992. Documents discussed
and approved by the Project Preparation Committee, including Draft Letter of Strategy, draft outline
for autonomy of schools and teacher statutes.
14.    Ministere du Plan, Direction des Ressources Humaines: Note sur la Diversification des Sources de
Financement del'ETFP. January 1993.
15.    Bureau de Coordination du Projet: ENEMP: Textes Fondamentaux. March 1993.



MAP SECTION






,,  2 .   ? - -¢>r ,   . Arz^Nric .    4   Qu_    5,,                                                              [BRD 2483
8~_~;->;,-.........& .. T. .wi.~. ...S..d. t t.  X  .1.................... - A.  MARIAN IA
MA URITA NIA
CANARY  ISCANDS gi                                                                                                       MAURITANIE
p a' n~~~~~~~~ TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND
| A    4; gt ,VOCATIONAL TRAINING
-2r                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUPPORT PROJECT
MOROCCO                    r                        r-   PROJET D'APPUI A L'ENSEIGNEMENT
TECHNIQUE ET LA FORMATION
ALGERIA                                 PROFESSIONNELLE
A      PROFESSIONAL LYCEE
-                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LYCEE / COLLEGE D'ENSEIGNEMENT PROFESSIONNCL ILCEP)
r -   \ ^COMMERCIAL LYCEE
A tlI a n t i c  . g;; rI                         t    l                       \                                            tLYCEE COMMERCIAL (LCo)
;  fi   FORMER  4                                                                            HIGHER INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
CENTRE SUPERIEUR DENSEIGNEMENT TECHNIQUE (CSET)
SAHARA 
Ocean                                                                 TIRIS                                             *       TRAINING RESOURCE CENTER
20. Oen /1 -    4CENTRE DE RESSOLIRCES ET DE SUIVM (CRES)
/  _  /   ZEMMOUR       /    ,                       o       VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND UPGRADING CENTER
CENTRE DE FORMATION ET PERFECTIONNEMENT
PROF ESSJON*JEUE (CFPR)
------------- {t<P   _   ___    /                                  E       PROFESSIONAL TECHNICAL COLLEGE
COLLEGE D'ENSEIGNEMENT TECHNIQUE (CET)
*  PROFESSIONAL COLLEGE
COLLEGE D'ENSEIGNEMENT PROFESSIONNEL fCEP)
_ < " <   '    /   !   MALI  *  NATIONAL MARITIME TRAINING SCHOOL
L.    UAD                                                                                                                 ECOLE NATIONALE D'ENSEIGNEmEWT MARITIME ET
DE PECHE (ENEMP)
2          NOUADH120U/  INCHIRI         r          >   A   D    R   A    R         \     /              |            wxr-     *      REGIONAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING CENTERS
20  NOIJADHuIT                   \                              j         HODH                                    CENTRE REGO    DE FORMATION POFESSIONNELLE (CFPR)
Y   /  \ ~   / /   ECH  l             PAVED ROADS
CHARGUI                      ~~~~~~~ROUTES REVETURES
\  '   |  > g    XtKJ A~~~~-~Pn T.di,   /                              GRAVEL ROADS
--                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROUTES EN GRAVIER
N01K                                                                                                         ------ TRARZA  /  :;~/    /    ,   ______TRACKS
4D  TRA ZA                                                                             P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISTES
A 0                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
CHEMIN DE FER
KRNXA                                                                                      AIRFIELDS
.  J   >==i1    t  A  E Ay                        ID   CTERRAINS DA /IA TION
A                                        9                                        la^;$ \ GH4R2l \ / ,' t ) 1 ,O REGION CAPITALS
FA                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAPI TALES REGIONALES
Mb-    ~ ~     OARI        ,~'~6NATlONAL CAPITALS
le                        ORGOf><    ) sAb \            S     u                 gCAPITALES
GUIDIMAK                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION BOUNDARIES
/7'       *,[                                                                    UAMITES REGIONALES
*' SLUIAI__- -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
FRONTIERES NATIONALES
SENEGAL                                                        MAL)                                          INDICATES THE TERRITORY OF THE FORMER SPANISH SAHARA
(WESTERN SAHARA)
INDIOUE LE TERRITOIRE DE LtANCIEN SAHARA ESPAGNOL
. .   X  )                                                  .{(SAHARA OCCIDENTAL)
L-  'W Mr  r                                                MAY 1993



