Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22278
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25210)
ON
A CREDIT 2521-MAU
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.9 MILLION (US$12.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND
VOCATIONAL TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
June 7, 2001
Human Development II
Country Department 15
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents mayenot otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 1993)
Currency Unit = Ouguiya (UM)
UM 1 = US$ .00952
US$ 1 = UM105
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CFPP         Centre de Formation Professionnelle et de Perfectionnement
(Skills Training Center)
CRES         Centre de Ressources et de Suivi (Resource and Monitoring Center)
CSET         Centre Superieur dEnseignement Technique
(Center for Higher Technical Education)
DET          Direction d'Enseignement Technique (Technical Education Directorate)
DPEF         Direction des Projets Education/Formation
(Education/Training Project Management Unit)
ENEMP        Ecole Nationale d'Enseignement Maritime et de Peche
(National Maritime and Fisheries School)
FAC          Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Cooperation Assistance Fund)
FAAF         Fonds d'Appui aux Activites de Formation Professionnelle
(Vocational Training Support Fund)
FLAP         FMgration des Industries et Arrnement de P&he
(Federation of Shipowners)
FTP          Formation Professionnelle et Technique
(Vocational and Technical Training)
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
HIPC         Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
ISF          Institutional Support Fund
MTR          Mid-Term Review
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
PROVALEP   Projet de Valorisation de l'Enseignement et de la Formation
Technique et Professionnelle
(Educational and Vocational Training Upgrading Project)
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
SNIM         Socite Nationale Industrielle et Miniere
(National Industry and Mining Company)
TEVT         Technical Education and Vocational Training
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Acting Country Manager/Director:    Miguel Saponara
Sector Manager/Director:    Alexandre V. Abrantes
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Mercy Tembon



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND
VOCATIONAL TRAINING SUPPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                            1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                            1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                 2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                    4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     10
6. Sustainability                                                                         11
7. Bank and Borrower Performnance                                                         12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                        14
9. Partner Comments                                                                       15
10. Additional Information                                                                16
Annex 1. Key Perfornance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                      17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                      18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                      20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                      21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                      24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                         25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                     26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P001872                                       Project Name: TECHNICAL/VOCATIONAL
Team Leader: Mercy Miyang Tembon                          TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 7, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: TECHNICAL/VOCATIONAL                           L/C/TF Number: IDA-25210
CountryIDepartment: MAURITANIA                                            Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: EV - Vocational/Technical Education & Training;
SY - Other Social Protection
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  08/31/92                                 Effective:  10/02/93          02/25/94
Appraisal:  02/23/93                                  MTR: 09/30/95              03/23/97
Approval:  06/22/93                                 Closing: 06/30/98            12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MIN PLAN
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                         Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Miguel Saponara (Acting)                   Katherine Marshall
Sector Manager:      Alexandre V. Abrantes                      Birger Fredriksen
Team Leader at ICR:   Mercy M. Tembon                           Rene Vaurs
ICR Primary Author:   Mercy Tembon; Souleymane
Sow
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=-Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Inmpact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Technical Education and Vocational Training Support Project was the fourth Bank-assisted education
project. It was intended to continue with earlier efforts to improve the quality and relevance of education
and training in Mauritania. The project was designed at a time when the technical education and training
sub-sector suffered from four critical issues: (i) employment prospects of technical education graduates
were uncertain due to a difficult fiscal environment exacerbated by depressed markets of iron ore and
agricultural products; (ii) the training system was unresponsive to labor market needs as graduates from
technical education institutions did not have the required skills and profiles needed for employment and this
was compounded by the fact that employers were not encouraged to participate in the decision-making
process as far as training content and evaluation were concerned; (iii) the severe shortage of qualified
Mauritanian technical instructors at all levels of the sub-system created serious problems for the
replacement of about 80 French technical instructors who were due to be withdrawn from the system by the
end of 1997; (iv) the institutional framework for technical education was weak and the technical and
vocational directorates' capacity for planning and implementing programs was limited.
The objective of the project was to establish a coherent system of technical education and vocational
training, (TEVT), staffed largely by national instructors, efficient and of good quality, and responsive to
labor market demands. To achieve this objective, the project intended to support:
(i) institutional measures designed to:
(a) strengthen system management,
(b) increase the financial and operational autonomy of training institutions, and
(c) promote the participation of employers in the operation and financing of the system,
(ii) investments designed- o:
(a) maintain the quality and improve the efficiency of technical education,
(b) revitalize the vocational training system,
(c) support maritime sector training, and
(d) strengthen sector planning and management capacities.
The project objectives were realistic and the components were compatible with the country's economic
development objective. They were relevant and responsive to key issues of the sector and consistent with
the Government's overall strategy for human resource development. These objectives were clearly stated
and a few measurable performance indicators were associated with them. However, impact or outcome
indicators were not explicit.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original project objective was not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of the following four components:
(1) Maintain the quality and improve the efficiency of technical education (TJS$6.8m)
This component was co-financed by IDA and the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation - FAC (French
Cooperation for Technical Assistance). The credit financed the following activities: (i) creation of a
resource center for technical education and vocational training to provide professional support to training
institutions and staff, (ii) establishment of capacity for technical teacher training in order to fill current
vacancies and replace departing French instructors; (iii) setting up of a training support fund to finance
small training programs initiated by groups of entrepreneurs in the infornal sector and developed by the
training centers; and (iv) construction of a workshop for agricultural mechanics training.
- 2 -



(2) Revitalize the vocational training system (US$1.6m)
The purpose of this component was to re-establish a skills training and upgrading center for employed
workers, extend training activities to the informal sector and improve the quality and relevance of training
programs. The project financed: (i) the implementation of a restructuring for the national vocational
training center; (ii) the establishment of a training support fund to finance training activities initiated by and
for micro-enterprises, informal sector workers and apprentices.
(3) Support maritime sector training (US$5.9m)
The objective of this component was to accommodate the Ecole Nationale d'Enseignement Maritime et de
Peche (ENEMP) in appropriate facilities and improve the quality of its training programs. The project
funded: (i) the construction of new facilities for the school in Nouadhibou, the equipment and furniture of
the school including residential facilities to accommodate 165 students (100 middle-level trainees and 65
officer trainees) for a potential output of 70-80 qualified seamen and mechanics and 30-35 officers per
annum; and (ii) program development and staff training.
(4) Strengthen sector planning and management capacities (US$2.1m)
This component supported the existing (limited) capacity for sector planning and programming in the three
departments of the technical education and vocational training system through:
(i) strengthening sector planning and programming. In each of the departments a small logistics unit for
planning and programming functions was to be set up, office equipment and furniture, computers and
reprographic equipment and a vehicle were to be provided. The cost of training for staff was to be covered.
(ii) project management and coordination. The credit was to finance the incremental investment and
operational expenditures of the project coordination unit. The cost of an external auditor for about four
months was to be financed by the credit.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
At the time of project preparation, the logical framework was not a requirement in staff appraisal
documents and quality at entry reviews did not exist. However, component objectives were clearly stated in
terms of targets to be met. The project was well embedded in Mauritania's overall strategy for the
development of its human resources and generation of employment. The objectives were realistic and fully
consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy which recognizes that human resource development
is a pre-requisite for achieving Mauritania's economic development objective (Country Assistance
Strategy, 1993). The project document was a product of extensive dialogue between the Government, the
bank and other external agencies (United Nations Development Program, International Labour Office,
European Development Fund and the French Ministry of Cooperation). The design took into account
lessons leamed from the implementation of the first three IDA-financed education projects. For example,
the implementation completion reports of earlier projects identified weak institutional management, lack of
donor financing and private sector involvement, limited cooperation with employers as some of the
constraints to the effectiveness of the training system. Project design addressed the above shortcomings by
supporting the establishment of a common management structure, the institution of financial autonomy of
TEVT institutions and the promotion of employer participation in operating and financing technical
education and vocational training.
The overall approach was rational and the project was set up to address the key issues in the sector in an
- 3 -



achievable, realistic manner. The design of the project was technically sound and project risks were
appropriately identified and plans to mitigate them were adequately incorporated into activity plans.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project outcome is rated satisfactory with regard to the achievement of objectives and outcomes. As
stated earlier, the project pre-dates the introduction of a logical framework in project appraisal documents
but the clearly stated output targets were used to reconstruct performance indicator proxies as shown in
annex 1. Almost all the objectives were achieved but the period of accomplishment differed slightly. For
example, some objectives were fully achieved within the initial planned project period, others were achieved
with considerable delay and a few were partially achieved. All the specific actions listed in the SAR as
well as all the institutional measures agreed upon were carried out successfully except for the
inter-ministerial committee that was created but was not functional. Nevertheless, as a result of the project:
(i) there is consistency in the statutes on technical and vocational training system instructors and
institutions which are now financially autonomous; (ii) all instructors are nationals; (iii) there are closer
links between the training offered and the needs of the labor market evidenced by the involvement of
employers in the design of training programs; (iv) the graduation rates in technical and vocational training
institutions has increased substantially (see annex 1); and (v) the quality of the training is good, as reflected
by the considerable number of graduates from the Centre d'Enseignement Superieur Technique--CSET
(Center for Higher Technical Education) who gain employment in the Societe Nationale Industrielle et
Miniere--SNIM (National Industrial and Mining Company) and other companies. Attestations from
micro-enterprise beneficiaries also reveal that training they have received is good and has had a positive
impact on their production.
The objective to establish a coherent system for both technical and vocational education was partially
achieved. The decree to harmonize the technical and vocational education systems was passed in January
1998. The statutes for technical and vocational education instructors and institutions were reformed and a
resource and monitoring center (Centre de Ressources et de Suivi--CRES) was created. An
inter-ministerial policy committee responsible for the coordination and follow-up of the implementation of
institutional plans with the participation of employers and other groups was formed. However, the text
specifying operating procedures of this committee were never prepared because of lack of consensus
between the three Ministries, namely Education, Labor and Fisheries, responsible for technical and
vocational education. Consequently, the institutional framework for vocational and technical education
remained fairly fragmented until the end of the project. Despite the fragmentation, five out of the six
outputs stated in the SAR were satisfactorily achieved, there is consistency in the statutes of instructors and
institutions in the technical education and vocational training sub-sectors and the non-functioning of the
inter-ministerial committee did not hinder the achievement of the objective to any major extent given that it
was to be mainly a supervisory rather than an implementing body. There are high prospects that the three
Ministries concemed will reach a consensus within the framework of the new project under preparation
(Education Sector Development Project) as there are plans to create an institute responsible for
coordinating technical education and vocational training.
The objective to strengthen the national instructor training capacity was fully achieved within the initial
planned project period. The required number of technical education and vocational training teachers were
trained and appointed as planned and they effectively replaced the bulk of foreign expatriates who were in
the institutions at the beginning of the project. The target to train and appoint 100 national instructors was
exceeded by 21. The staff composition in technical and vocational training institutions has been
'Mauritanianized' as planned. At the end of the project, the proportion of national instructors in technical
-4 -



education institutions increased from 45% in 1993/94 to 89% in 1999/00 as opposed to the planned 80
percent. Within the same period, in vocational training institutions, the proportion of national instructors
increased from 70% to 100% as expected but in the maritime training sector, it increased from 70% to
100% instead of the expected 90%. Although technical and vocational training institutions are now mainly
staffed by Mauritanians, gaps still remain in the skill profile of instructors. The majority of instructors are
qualified in traditional subjects such as electricity, mechanics, metal work and secretarial work as was
necessary at the time of project preparation (see section 10). Since then, the skill needs of the labor market
have evolved significantly. To be in line with recent global technological developments, these trainers
would need to update their practical skills. The training system also needs to have qualified trainers in
diverse and emerging areas such as electronic engineering, telecommunications, computer and technology
skills. These are aspects that future interventions and operations may focus on.
The objective to diversify financing sources was partially achieved. A study on financing mechanisms was
carried out and recommendations aimed at promoting effective participation of the private sector and a
reform of the apprentice tax were made. These were not implemented because the study was undertaken
towards the end of the project. Consequently private sector financing did not exceed 20% as expected.
However the federation of shipowners financed about 40% of the total recurrent cost of the maritime
training school as planned. Private sector employers and proprietors of micro-enterprises also contributed
towards the cost of the demand-driven training courses that their employees took in the technical education
and vocational training centers.
The objective to improve training quality and relevance was achieved. CRES was established, didactic and
pedagogic materials were provided in the institutions, the content of training programs was revised, the
capacity of training instructors was reinforced through pre-service and in-service training, an employment
referral system was established and there was effective participation of professional groups in the design of
training courses. CSET always adapted the training courses it offers according to the needs of employers.
ENEMP was constructed and furnished with the equipment needed to enhance the quality of training
provided at the school and the curriculum of the school was revised and updated to meet the standards of
the intemational maritime organization. Staff undertook in-service training courses.
The objective to improve the efficiency of the training system was partially met. Information on the ratio of
students to instructors indicates that there have been slight improvements. In technical education, the ratio
of students to instructors increased from 8:1 in 1993/94 to 12:1 in 1998/99. Within the same period in
vocational training, the ratio increased from 9:1 to 14:1 but in the maritime training the ratio remained
constant at 6:1. As a result of low enrolments in the maritime school the unit costs were high and could go
up to UM 1.6 million UM which is approximately 160 times the unit cost at the primary level. The
graduation rate improved in all the three types of institutions. The proportion of students who graduated
from technical education institutions increased from 66.8% in 1993/94 to 84.3% in 1997/98. Within the
same period graduation rates increased from 73% to 79% in vocational training institutions and from 70%
to 97% in the maritime training school. It is difficult to assess the extemal efficiency of the project
concretely because there are no reliable statistics on unemployment or placement rates of graduates of the
various training institutions, and because the plan to establish a graduate follow-up system was not
undertaken in all the institutions except for the CSET. Nevertheless, anecdotal evidence from directors of
the training institutions estimates that about 70 - 75% of graduates of technical education and vocational
training programs find employment after training. In terms of appropriateness of the training courses,
interviews with beneficiaries of training courses revealed that the courses enabled them to become more
productive.
-5 -



4.2 Outputs by components:
1. Maintain the quality and improve the efficiency of technical education (US$6.8 million)
The quality and efficiency component is rated satisfactory. This component was designed to provide the
necessary material and human resources that technical education institutions would need to main quality
and improve on the intemal and external efficiency of the system. This specific objective was reached
through the following outputs:-
Creation of a resource centerfor technical education and vocational training (US$3.3 million). The
output of this sub-component was satisfactory. The center was created and permanent facilities were
constructed on the premises of the CSET in 1995. Technical assistance was provided by four expatriates
(co-financed by IDA and FAC) who worked closely with three national counterparts with a view to
building local capacity. The center was well equipped and staffed and it established a good work program.
Some of the main outputs of the CRES included an analysis of informal sector training needs, revisions of
vocational training programs, assistance on preparing and evaluating proposals for the Fonds d'Appui aux
Activites de Formation Professionnelle--FAAF (training support fund) and providing assistance to training
institutions on budget preparation, statistical systems and work programs. A well-equipped documentation
unit was established within the center for use by trainers and trainees. At the end of two years of operation
an external evaluation of the center's mission, structure, staffing, budget and performance needs were
undertaken and it recommended a reorganization. The post of director was created, the expatriates served
until the end of their contracts and their national counterparts took over the center. On the whole, the
objective was achieved and the center served the purpose for which it was created. It provided guidance, in
the development of training programs that responded to market demand, professional support to training
institutions and established links between these institutions and employers. The Govemment is planning to
detach the center from the CSET and make it a fully autonomous institute.
The center has succeeded in building awareness amongst policy-makers of the importance of linking
training to the labor martket, in developing the capacity of Mauritanians in the area of project proposal
preparation and has also served as the main harmonizing link between the technical education and the
vocational training systems.
Establish capacity for technical teacher training (US$2.8 million).
The objective to 'Mauritanianize' the technical education teaching corps and establish a local capacity for
training and upgrading teachers of technical education was achieved satisfactorily. By the end of the
project, all the expatriates had been replaced and the teaching corps in technical education institutions is
100% Mauritanian. The original target was to train and deploy approximately 100 technical education
teachers in technical education institutions. However, a total of 121 Mauritanian technical education
teachers was trained/recruited and deployed. Of this number, 61 teachers were trained for a duration of
two years in the CSET and 60 other qualified nationals were recruited directly. The project had estimated
that about 75 teachers would be needed but the Directorate of technical education requested the training of
67 teachers and the institution successfully trained 61, which is 91% of the demand. More than 30
in-service courses were organized by the CSET with a view to reinforcing the capacity of the technical
teaching corps through a well-organized in-service training program. Between 1995/96 and 99/00 a total
of 595 participants were involved in in-service training programs. Nine Mauritanian teacher trainers
undertook a refresher course that lasted four months in 1997/98. The outputs achieved in this
sub-component met and sometimes exceeded the original targets.
- 6 -



Establish an institutional supportfundfor technical education and vocational training (TEVT)
institutions (US$ 0.4 million)
The objective to improve the internal and external efficiencies of technical and vocational institutions was
not achieved. The idea was to set up an institutional support fund (ISF) that would help technical
education and vocational training institutions develop their capacities to design and implement training
courses in response to requests from employers. The expected outcome was an improvement in the internal
and external efficiencies of these training institutions. This activity was financed by the Cooperation
Francaise under the Projet de Valorisation de l'Enseignement et de la Formation Technique et
Professionnelle (PROVALEP). Take-off was slowed down because of the long delay in adopting
legislation that would give full autonomy to technical education and vocational training institutions for the
use of these funds. Difficulties in implementation were also caused by a restrictive operational manual in
terms of the ceiling of expenditure per proposal, a complicated evaluation process, and the management of
the fund by the FAC technical assistant who depended on approval from another superior authority.
Consequently, by the end of the financing period only a dozen projects were financed and approximately
25% of the fund was disbursed.
Construction of a workshop for Agricultural Mechanics Training in Boghe (US$ 0.3 million)
The objective to provide the agricultural training college in Boghe with a maintenance hangar for
agricultural machinery and a capacity for conducting practical training programs in agricultural mechanics
was achieved satisfactorily. A workshop with a surface area of 500m, a fence and the guard's lodge were
completed and handed over to the training center in 1998. It has been operational since then and the
authorities of the institution found the infrastructure a very useful addition that has helped them to achieve
the overall goals of the training they dispense. Discussions with local beneficiaries confirmed the
importance of the hangar in helping them to acquire skills in the maintenance of agricultural machinery
which they use daily in their farming activities.
2. Revitalize the Vocational Training System (US$ 1.6 million)
The outcome of the vocational training system revitalization component is rated satisfactory. The
objectives of this component were to re-establish the vocational training and upgrading center for employed
workers, extend its activities to support the training needs of the informal sector and improve the quality
and relevance of its training programs. A secondary objective was to support the start-up of four newly
created regional training centers in Selibaby, Rosso, Kiffa and Atar. Two main activities were envisaged
for the achievement of these objectives namely, the implementation of a restructuring plan and the
establishment of a training support fund to finance training activities initiated by micro-enterprises.
Implement a restructuring plan for the Centre de Formation Professionnelle et de Perfectionnement--
CFPP (US$1.2 million)
The restructuring plan was undertaken satisfactorily. Technical assistance was provided to guide the
re-organization of the center, and design of training modules for both initial and in-service training.
Courses, which responded to the needs of employers especially those in the informal sector, were
successfully offered in the center, and interviews with course beneficiaries attest to the usefulness of these
courses. The CFPP (skills training center) in Nouakchott was well equipped both with machines and
various training materials. The center submitted more than 40 proposals for training activities that were
financed by the training support fund. The four regional centers were provided with a vehicle each and
some equipment but these fell short of their actual needs. Nevertheless the regional centers continue to
operate successfully in improving local training skills.
- 7 -



Establishing a training support fund to finance training activities initiated by micro-enterprises (US$0.4
million)
The fund was successfully established by decree No. 94-084 of September 5, 1994. A total of 133
proposals were financed for the sum of US$298,246 which is approximately 75% of the budget allocated
for this activity. Training proposals were generated by groups of workers such as motor mechanics,
butchers, masons, electricians, carpenters, welders, bakers and women's cooperatives. A discussion with
the beneficiaries reveals that the training they received was useful and did help them to be more productive
in their respective sectors. Although the funds were not completely disbursed as planned, the activity has
nevertheless permitted micro-enterprises in the informal sector to see the importance of skill upgrading to
their productivity. It has also provided the opportunity for the training institutions to develop the capacity
to design programs that respond to the needs of the labor market.
3. Support Maritime Sector Training (US$5.9 million)
The outcome of maritime training support program is rated satisfactory. As a result of the project, the
training school is now operating in its own facilities which are adequately equipped and closer to the ocean
and to the shipping vessels. This is an improvement on pre-project conditions in rented facilities located
inland and farther away from the ocean and training vessels. The activities to be implemented under this
component included:-
Construct new facilities for the Maritime Training School (US$5.1 million)
The objective to accommodate the ENEMP in appropriate facilities was achieved successfully but after a
delay of more than two years and enormous difficulties. The construction and equipment of the national
maritime training school was the most difficult activity to be implemented in this project. Civil works
contracts were signed on January 17, 1998, barely six months before the initial closing date. Consequently,
the closing date was extended for a year to June 30, 1999. The successful completion of the buildings was
further hampered by the contractor's inability to undertake a task of such magnitude and complexity. Some
of the implementation impediments included lack of adequate manpower, insufficient provisions made by
the contractor to acquire the necessary amounts of foreign currency to import materials from abroad which
constituted approximately 70% of the entire contract, and delays in acquiring the necessary building
materials. As a result of all these problems, the project had to be extended again until June 30, 2000. For
the civil works and equipment categories only, the project was partially extended for a third time, until
December 31, 2000. The construction and equipment of the national maritime school was successfully
completed and the Minister of Fisheries and Maritime Economy inaugurated the facility on November 26,
2000. The school is now fully operational.
Support Program Development and Staff Training (US$0.8 million)
Program development and staff training were undertaken satisfactorily within the project period. The main
achievements were a revision of training programs to ensure that they comply with international standards
and are validated by the International Maritime Organization, development of training courses and guides
for trainers in both French and Arabic and capacity building of personnel (administrative, trainer and
support staff).
4. Strengthen Sector Planning and Programming (US$.5 million).
The sector planning and programming component is rated satisfactory. The objective to strengthen the
departments responsible for technical education, vocational training and maritime training so as to plan and
coordinate the development of programs and manage resources effectively, was satisfactorily achieved.
Furniture, computers, reprographic equipment and vehicles were procured for these departments. The
- 8 -



project also financed training abroad for 3 directors, and local training courses in office technology and
data handling were provided for 12 heads of institutions and 5 unit chiefs.
A decree aimed at improving the operation and financial autonomy of training institutions was approved in
July 1998 and a study on financing mechanisms was completed. Based on the findings of studies that were
undertaken within the framework of the project, a policy document outlining the reforms and future
orientations of the technical education and vocational training system was prepared in 1999.
Support to project management and coordination was adequate. The project coordination unit's investment
and operating costs were covered by the project. Vehicles, office equipment, furniture, supplies and other
operating costs including the salaries of the project manager, accounts clerk, administrative secretary and
junior support staff were paid for.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No economic rate of return analysis was undertaken, neither was a cost-effectiveness analysis attempted.
However there are indices which indicate that at project completion the technical and vocational system had
been improved and was more productive than at the beginning of the project. To be more categorical about
economic rate of return to the resources used, one would need to relate present costs and benefits to a
reference point or benchmarks which should have been established at the beginning of the project. Given
the relative priorities in the current budget environment, it is not feasible to undertake such economic
analysis at this stage. However, statistical data for 1999 indicate that the unit cost per technical and
vocational education student in Mauritania is US$442 which is lower than US$472 for a student in Guinea,
and US$535 for a student in Mali where similar projects are being financed by the Bank.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was computed in the SAR.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Project impact on the institutional development of the training institutions was satisfactory. As a result of
the project, training institutions are now able to: (i) better understand the relationship between the training
provided by the schools and the needs of the employers (market demand of skills); (ii) interact with the
private sector which provide placements for their students as "stagiaires", (iii) design and deliver specific
training modules for informal sector needs in a wide range of areas such as butchers, masons, agriculture,
women cooperatives, management and, (iv) access relevant texts and reference materials through the
documentation center located at the CRES and used by both students and trainers.
The project has also enabled technical and vocational training institutions to become financially and
operationally autonomous. They design and offer programs that are relevant to the needs of the labor
market, raise funds from the marketing of their services and do not depend entirely on public finances as
was the case before the project was launched. The participation of employers in the financing of training
programs has also improved the relevance of the training courses substantially. It had been envisaged that
a common management structure for the TEVT system would be established within the framework of the
project. This was also partially achieved due to lack of consensus between the three technical Ministries
concemed, as to how this structure will operate. The inter-ministerial committee that was created was not
functional.
-9-



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project experienced a two-year delay in implementation particularly with respect to construction works
at the ENEMP partly because there was a change in task management at the Bank. The new manager
raised serious questions about the rationale for constructing new facilities for the national fisheries school
as originally designed because of the declining conditions in the industrial fisheries sector at the time. There
was a decline in fish production, declining numbers of Mauritanian fishing vessels and a decrease in the
demand for trained manpower in the sector as opposed to the high unit costs of students and the large
number of maritime school graduates. Implementation was halted for about three months whilst a study, to
re-examine the economic necessity of the school and the assumptions made at the time of appraisal, was
undertaken. The study confirmed the justification for the school before works resumed.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Throughout the life of the project, the Government was slow to implement policy measures and key tasks
and this affected successful and timely implementation. Credit effectiveness was delayed for about three
months because the Government was slow in fulfilling specified conditions. The project adoption of
statutes governing the internal operation of technical and vocational education institutions was also delayed
for three years partly because a very high turnover of ministerial heads. The study to evaluate altemative
options for financing vocational training, which was a key to the restructuring program, was delayed for
more than two years.
Agreement on some key issues was delayed because of conflicting interests between the three ministries
involved in the project. This was reflected in the delays incurred in preparing the statutes to harmonize the
technical education and  ocational training systems. An inter-ministerial technical committee was set up,
but was never functional because its mandate regarding sub-sector management was not clearly defined.
The demand-driven nature of initiatives supported by the training support fund (IDA), which allowed the
participation of beneficiaries, such as micro-enterprises, in the design of their training programs, tended to
be easily implemented aad had a great impact. However, unclear procedures impeded the identification and
financing of proposals in the early years. Consequently, the disbursement of credit allocation was about
75%. Notwithstanding the delays, the Government remained committed to reforming the technical
education and vocational training system. Adoption of the decree to improve the operation and financial
autonomy of training institutions went a long way towards offering training that was demand rather than
supply-driven. The involvement of the private sector in determining the contents and financing of training
courses, though modestly, also attest to the Government's commitment to change to a more efficient
system.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project benefited from the good performance of the project coordination unit and, in particular, its
financial management and procurement capacity. Frequent supervision missions and timely reports helped
to improve the planning of project activities.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The project was implemented between February 25, 1994 and December 31, 2000 including three
extensions for a period of 30 months. It disbursed SDR 7.67 million, which is 86.12 percent of credit
funds and the Govemment provided the necessary counterpart funds as planned.
- 1 0 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
On the whole, prospects for the sustainability of project achievements are high because the project was able
to establish the basic conditions necessary for future development of the technical education and vocational
training sub-sectors. Within the framework of the project, important analytical studies were undertaken
and the national policy for technical education and vocational training was developed. In January 1998, a
decree defining the status of professional and vocational training was approved and promulgated into law
and, in July of the same year, decrees aimed at improving the operation and financial autonomy of training
institutions were approved. Both policy measures will invariably help to consolidate the achievements of
this project and guide future orientations.
Over the past decade the Government embarked on key structural and economic reforms, that led to
economic growth. Between 1990 and 1998, the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), increased at an annual
rate of 4.2% in real terms, during that period inflation was contained, the fiscal balance recorded in 1997
and 1998 showed large surpluses and extemal currency deficits were reduced. Within the framework of
further liberalization of the exchange and intemational trade system and improved provision of public
utilities and basic physical infrastructure, real GDP growth is expected to grow at an average of 5%
between 1999-2005. It is also expected that the volume of state revenues will increase, due to additional
financial resources available from savings made within the HIPC initiative. This will in tum, increase the
resources available for the financing of recurrent costs in the education sector. This is all the more possible
because the public technical and vocational training system was maintained at a small and affordable scale
in terms of numbers of institutions and students. The overall economic picture which emerges from
Mauritania today, is one of opportunity, and this bodes well with further production of a skilled labor
force. The design of the new lending operation is taking advantage of these positive signs for future
employment creation opportunities that need to absorb graduates from the general, technical and vocational
education sub-systems.
Sustainability is highly likely in the technical education sub-sector. The capacity built in the Departement
d'Enseignement Technique (DET) in the Ministry of National Education, the training institutions, the
creation of the CRES and the significant number of trained Mauritanian technical education instructors will
remain an important basis for the development of the system. However, maintenance of the quality of
technical education achieved, needs to be consolidated by continued and adequate support in the form of
didactic and pedagogic materials in the institutions and resource center as well as by in-service training to
update the knowledge and skills of the instructors.
In the vocational training sub-sector sustainability of activities is likely. The restructuring of the CFPPs
and the establishment of the training support fund to finance activities initiated by micro-enterprises have
revitalized the vocational training system. Although private sector financing and involvement in the design
of training courses exist, there is considerable room for improvement. More diversification of financing
sources for this sub-sector will be required. Currently employers' contributions are made in the form of
payroll taxes which represent 0.6% of the national wage bill, which the Government treasury collects.
Adequate finances for training would be available if these funds are placed in a special Vocational and
Training Support fund and used strictly for the purpose of maintaining the training system. The training
support fund can be supplemented by revenue from the training beneficiaries themselves, or by their
sponsors and/or employers. The experiment with the training support fund in this project was successful
and the ideas are being carried forward into the design of the new lending program.
The financial sustainability of investments in the fisheries sector depends on its productivity and private
- 11 -



sector contributions. In the recent past, the sector has suffered from a crisis and decline in production. The
decline has mainly been due both to a fall in catches and prices for high value species (cephalopods). The
first factor is probably due to over-fishing in the past and the second due in part to low demands from
Asian countries. In 1998, the Government took concrete steps to improve surveillance and management of
the fisheries sector by adopting a plan and calendar of actions to introduce a system of efficient exploitation
and protection of fishing grounds. It is expected that in the coming years, resources from this sector will
increase and resources will be available to sustain the investments that have been made. However the
Federation of Shipowners (Federation des Industries et Armement de Peche--FIAP) continues to finance
40% of the recurrent costs of ENEMP. The new national maritime school facilities are huge and need
adequate resources for maintenance. Without adequate budget allocations and increased mobilization of
other financing particularly from the private sector (in addition to the contribution from the federation of
shipowners) to cover the recurrent and maintenance cost of the school, the prospects of sustainability are
unlikely. Furthennore if efforts are not made to increase enrollment in the school and increase the effective
utilization of teaching space, equipment and instructors, unit costs would remain extremely high.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Government has anticipated follow-on activities under a new lending program currently under
preparation. The plan is to consolidate the gains of the present project while improving on the
responsiveness of the technical education and vocational training system to the needs of the labor market.
Specifically, the demand-driven training system will be strengthened, the quality, efficiency and relevance
of the training system will be improved, there will be periodic updating of trainers' skills and an appropriate
institutional framework to guide the management of a more developed training system established. The
Government has already prepared drafts of a ten-year education sector policy framework document and
master plan. Discussions are in progress to seek consensus on the document, develop a coherent and an
integrated sector-wide program and work out the costs and financial implications of the program for
possible funding by international development agencies that are interested in Mauritania. In the meantime,
the national maritime school and the other technical education and vocational training institutions are fully
operational.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Project identification was well carried out; the design was based on previous Bank experience and
knowledge of the education sector, and was technically and institutionally sound. At the time it seemed
likely that all the project components would be implemented with little or no difficulty. The length of time it
took to complete the construction of the national maritime school was largely unforeseen. The complexity
of the construction of the training school facilities was far too demanding for contractors in Mauritania.
Institutional reforms took much longer than expected to be put in place. The bank spent US$112,000 to
prepare the project and this was adequate.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision and follow-up was regular, with an average of two missions per year. Bank supervision
missions collaborated effectively with the national project management team to facilitate implementation
and resolve emerging issues. Although the project had four different task managers between appraisal and
completion, some continuity was maintained in the composition of supervision missions in the early years
of execution. A key member of the task team which designed the project, participated in all supervision
missions from 1994 - 1997. This helped dialogue to remain productive and flexible enough to address the
challenges that arose. However, it must be said that during this period the task team did not sufficiently
push the Government to adopt the policy measures upon which other activities were based. This in tum
- 12 -



caused implementation delays.
The skill composition of supervision teams was appropriate and suitable expertise was drawn in as required
(procurement and financial management specialists). The change in task managers just before the mid-term
review, caused some delays as the new manager immediately questioned the validity of investing in the
construction of the national maritime school, given the declining productivity of the fishery sector at the
time. The problem was resolved following the results and recommendations of a specially commissioned
study which were in favor of going ahead with constructing the school. This obviously caused considerable
delays in the execution of the activity.
Bank missions reported progress adequately. In November 1996, the supervision team changed the rating
of the development objective and implementation progress from satisfactory (S) to unsatisfactory (U)
because of lack of progress in restructuring the technical education and vocational training systems, delays
in starting construction works at the national maritime school and the low number of operations that had
been financed by the institutional support fund and training support fund (FAAF). The U rating lasted
until July 1998, a little over one year after the mid-term review, when it was reversed to S. During that
year, the Government demonstrated its political desire to move towards technical education and vocational
training reform as agreed during appraisal and negotiations. In January 1998, decree No. 98 007, defining
the status of professional and vocational training was approved and made law. In July of the same year, the
decrees towards improving the operation and financial autonomy of training institutions was approved.
After that, development objective and implementation ratings were consistently rated satisfactory. Mission
aide-memoires were issues oriented and focused on action plans. Total supervision costs was US$290,000,
which is quite high for a relatively small loan amount. High supervision costs were mainly due to the fact
that the project had to be extended three times. Nevertheless, the budget for ICR preparation was
extremely small, so much so that it was impossible to carry out an impact assessment or tracer study of
beneficiaries or survey firms whose workers had received training.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Bank performance is rated satisfactory. Bank missions paid full attention to the development objectives and
financial management of the project.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government established a project team to prepare the project and it played an appropriate role in
identifying project objectives. The project team ensured that the objectives fitted within the overall strategy
for economic development and the Ministry of Education's strategy to address the enormous shortcomings
and challenges that existed in the technical education and vocational training sub-sectors. The Government
had a project preparation facility of US$ 100,000 to cover some of its costs.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Govemment showed a reasonable level of commitment and provided counterpart funds for the project
as required (10.5% of total project cost). The Government also demonstrated its commitment to project
objectives by complying with all covenants, although in some cases with considerable delays especially in
adopting the policy measures agreed within the framework of the project.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The project co-ordination unit's performance was satisfactory with regard to project management and the
coordination of project activities. Timely reports of project achievements were prepared and submitted to
IDA as expected. The inability of the project to fully disburse the training support fund (FAAF) is partly
- 13-



due to insufficient public awareness of the fund's existence. The project coordination unit could have been
more proactive in this regard.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, Borrower performance is satisfactory. Almost all the project objectives have been achieved
satisfactorily.
8. Lessons Learned
The Bank and the Government have learned some key lessons as a result of the implementation experience
of this project. Some lessons are specific to the project and others are general.
Specific lessons:
*   Training programs that build on the participation of beneficiaries are likely to have desirable outcomes.
Training requests originating from micro-enterprises and responsive skills upgrading programs
provided in the training institutions improved the productivity of the micro-enterprises. The pilot
experience of demand-driven training financed by the training support fund (FAAF) was successful.
Financial commitmnent and a conducive regulatory and legal framework are necessary for long-term
benefits.
*   Complicated operational procedures can hold back the disbursement of project funds. The training
support fund was less than $0.5 million but these funds could not be completely disbursed over a
period of six years because of the complicated procedures imposed by the Bank to access the funds. In
future access procedures should be simplified.
*   Careful selection of construction firms is important for the timely accomplishment of tasks. The firm
chosen for the construction of the national maritime school, had difficulties with liquidity in foreign
currency and this contributed to slowing down the completion of the buildings. In future a more
rigorous process needs to be followed during selection.
*   The diversification of financing methods is important for the sustainability of training programs. The
apprentice tax (equivalent to 2% of the payroll of private and parastatal enterprises), counterpart
contribution towards skills upgrading courses paid by employers and sponsors of trainees, and
contributions from the federation of shipowners towards the recurrent costs of ENEMP have been
alternate sources of financing for the vocational training sub-sector. More altematives for more private
financing are still needed.
General lessons:
*   Institutional and policy reforms procedures often go through several political decision-making levels
and so take long to materialize. An under-estimation of the length of time it can take, could be a cause
for concern during project implementation. Project activities that were directly dependent on the
statutes goveming the internal operations of training institutions, were considerably delayed because
the adoption of the said statutes was behind schedule.
*   To avoid delays during implementation, it is important to ensure that all institutional measures are
undertaken before negotiations, all technical and architectural studies are undertaken during the project
preparation period.
- 14 -



*   Performance indicators have to be specified in measurable terms before implementation because it is
extremely difficult to do so when the project is in mid,stream. The project had broad performance
criteria that were not quantified.
*   Impact assessment of training programs need to be built into the implementation plan. To assess the
cost effectiveness of public resource use, and to verify whether the training course content is responsive
to labor market needs, it would be necessary to undertake graduate tracer studies and an evaluation of
skills upgrading activities, in the future.
*   .Disagreements often result from the lack of a clear definition of responsibilities of actors concemed.
Despite the creation of the inter-ministerial committee to serve as the unifying body for the technical
education and vocational training systems, the committee was never operational because the
responsibilities of the three ministries concemed, was never clearly defined.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Summary of Borrower's Report
Overall, project implementation was successful despite the delays in the construction of the national
maritime school which resulted in three successive extensions.
On the whole, the Borrower's performance is satisfactory. In fact, at the close of the project, all the actions
envisaged had been carried even though some of them such as the institutional measures and ENEMP
construction were delayed. The Direction des Projets Education et Formation (DPEF)
(Training/Education Projects Unit) which was responsible for project coordination, administered the credit
adequately, coordinated the various project components and worked closely with the donor (IDA).
The overall performance of the Bank is satisfactory. The contribution of the World Bank Team was
decisive during project preparation and made it possible to set up a specific operation for FTP (formation
technique etprofessionnelle) for the first time. The goals were clearly outlined and based on the
assumption that this form of education would be restructured so as to make it more coherent, more relevant
and more efficient. However, during project implementation, it became evident that reservations regarding
the changes envisaged to the system had been under-estimated, which resulted in delays that were longer
than expected. Furthermore, the change in supervision team and working methods of the new team also
caused significant delays in project implementation. These delays which occasionally turned into actual
bottlenecks (i.e. ENEMP) were the main reason behind the first extension of the Credit's closing date.
Moreover, these bottlenecks did not permit the full use of available funds to implement measures that
would strengthen the FTP system along the lines of the project's objectives. However, the second change in
supervision team had a salutary effect on the project in that it became possible to complete the entire
ENEMP construction program and enabled the FTP establishments to acquire important equipment that
would strengthen their activities. If this last change had taken place earlier, more could have been
achieved.
On the completion of the first project geared specifically towards vocational and technical training, the
following recommendations are being put forward based on the lessons learned from the problems
encountered during project implementation:
- 15 -



*   To ensure the success of such projects, the responsibilities of the advisory entity should be clearly
stated;
*   The heads of the various technical components should be made more aware of their responsibilities to
enhance their involvement in the project implementation process and ownership of expected results;
*    To facilitate the achievement of objectives, as many institutional measures as possible should be taken
and technical and architectural studies for the civil works components should be conducted with PPF
financing during project preparation.
*    Avoid, as much as possible, calling into question unilaterally, the feasibility studies on the basis of
which the investment programs have been prepared. This often causes delays that may jeopardize
attainment of the objectives of the project;
*    Civil works firms should be selected more carefully and only those that have pre-qualified should be
considered;
*   The national team in charge of project coordination and implementation should be selected on the basis
of their competence and should be trained in procurement and disbursement procedures. It should be
able to interact with the donor's task team in full confidence. What should be avoided at all costs is to
convert the supervision mission into a micro-management exercise.
(b) Cofinanciers:
NA
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA
10. Additional Information
Technical education Instructors by specialty 1998/99.
Specialty                             Number of trainers          Percentage
1. Industrial design                  16                          9.4
2. Architectural Drawings             11                          6.5
3. General mechanics                  12                          7.1
4. Electricity                        21                           12.4
5. Motormechanics                     36                          21.3
6. Masonry                            2                            1.1
7. Carpentry                          6                           3.5
8. Plumbing                           2                            1.1
9. Metal work                         19                           11.2
l0.Cooling systems                   8                            4.7
11. Agriculture                      9                            5.3
10. Accounting                       9                            5.3
12. Secretary                         18                          10.6
Total.                                169                          100
- 16-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
[,~~~~~~~~~~ . ....... . ..  PM                   be P_,dS .........._l
Percentage of national instructors increased. 80% in Technical Education      100 % in Technical Education
100% in Vocatonal Training            100% in Vocational Training
90% in Maritime Training              100% in Maritime Training
Ratio of students to instructors increased    15:1 in Technical Educaton      12:1 in Technical Education
20:1 in Vocational Training            14:1 in Vocation Training
10:1 in Maritime Training              6:1 in Maritime Training
Utilization rate of instructors (hours of  24 in Technical Education          16 in Technical Education
student contact per week)               30 in Vocational Training               27 in Vocational Training
24 in Maritime Training                 13 in Maritime Training
Graduation rate increased              80% in Technical Education             85.6% in Technical Education
90% in Vocational Training            100% in Vocational Training
100% in MariUme Training               100% in Maritime Training
System management: Sub-sector                                                 A Law on TVET was passed in January
management ensuring intemal coherence                                         1998. Private sector participate in financing
with participation of private sector in                                       and management of institutions.
management and financing:
Operational and financial autonomy of                                          Decrees approved foldowing officialization of
training institutions.                                                        the Law on TVET. All training institutions
autonomous
Output Indicators:
*                                    .                L                                 A.................,, # 
Maintain the quality and Improve the
Efficiency of Technical Education
(i) creating a resource center for TEVT                                       Resource & documentation center created
(ii) establish capacity for technical teacher                                 61 Technical Education teacher trained in
training.                                                                     CSET
(iii) establish institutional support fund                                    fund created, 25% disbursed
(iv) construct workshop for agric. mechanics                                  Workshop constructed in Boghe
Revitalize the vocational training system
(i) implement restructuring program for                                       CFPP restructured
CFPP
(ii) establish training support fund for                                      133 proposals funded, 75% of fund
micro-enterprises                                                             disbursed
Support Maritime Sector Training
(i) Construct new facilities for Maritime                                     Maritime training school constructed and
School                                                                        fumished.
(ii) Support program development                                              Programs developed to International Maritime
Organizaton Standards
Strengthen Sector Planning and
Management
(i) strengthen sector planning and                                            Planning and management training for 3
management                                                                    directors, 12 heads of institution, 5 chiefs of
(ii) Support project management.                                              services
End of project
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Pro ect Cost b Component (in US$ million e uivalent)
1. Maintain the quality and improve the efficiency of  3.20          2.10           65.6
technical education (US$6.8m)
2. Revitalize the vocational training system (US$ 1.6m)  1.30        1.40          107.7
3. Support maritime sector training (US$ 5.9m)       5.90            6.00          101.7
4. Strengthen sector planning and management capacities  2.10        1.60           76.2
(US$ 2.1m)
Total Baseline Cost                                  12.50          11.10
Total Project Costs             12.50          11.10
Interest during construction                                88.80
Total Financing Required             12.50           11.10
Project Costs by Procurement Arran ements (Ap raisal Estimate) (US$ million e uivalent)
1. Works                     3.10          0.10         0.00          0.60         3.80
(3.10)       (0.10)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (3.20)
2. Goods                     2.90          0.00          1.00         0.60         4.50
(2.90)       (0.00)        (1.00)       (0.00)       (3.90)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00          3.00         0.30         3.30
(0.00)       (0.00)        (3.00)       (0.00)       (3.00)
4. Training                  0.00          0.00          1.00         0.60         1.60
(0.00)       (0.00)        (1.00)       (0.00)       (1.00)
5. Support Fund              0.00          0.00          0.40         0.40         0.80
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.40)       (0.00)       (0.40)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          1.00         1.40         2.40
(0.00)       (0.00)        (1.00)       (0.00)        (1.00)
Total                      6.00         0.10          6.40          3.90        16.40
(6.00)       (0.10)        (6.40)       (0.00)       (12.50)
Pro-ect Costs b Procurement Arran ements Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
c ~~~~~~~~~~2 NB.Ttal os
1. Works                     2.60          0.05         0.20         0.60         3.45
(2.60)       (0.05)       (0.20)       (0.00)        (2.85)
2. Goods                     3.40          0.05         0.80          0.20        4.45
(3.40)       (0.05)       (0.80)       (0.00)        (4.25)
- 18 -



3. Services                       0.00            0.00           2.50            0.05           2.55
(0.00)          (0.00)         (2.30)         (0.00)         (2.30)
4. Training                       0.00            0.00           0.70            0.40           1.10
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.70)         (0.00)         (0.70)
5. Support Fund                   0.00            0.00           0.30            0.04           0.34
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.30)         (0.00)         (0.30)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.70            0.24           0.94
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.70)         (0.00)         (0.70)
Total                          6.00            0.10           5.20            1.53          12.83
(6.00)          (0. 1 0)       (5.00)         (0.00)         (11.10)
lFigures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
XIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Comonent(in US$ million equivalent)
.   ,  .  P _   fAppw.bi
_ _ _Bam*   i        CoF.         A        GOt        Co4. -  --k o            04
1. Maintain the quality and    3.20   1.50      2.05       2.10       1.50       0.74     65.6   100.0  36.1
improve the efficiency of
technical education
(US$6.8m)
2. Revitalize the vocational    1.30            0.15       1.40                           107.7           0.0
training system (US$ 1.6m)
3. Support maritime sector    5.90                         6.00                           101.7
training (US$ 5.9m)
4. Strengthen sector       2.10       0.20                 1.60       0.04                76.2   20.0
planning and management
capacities (US$ 2.1m)
- 19-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic rate of return analysis was undertaken, neither was a cost-effectiveness analysis attempted
due to relative priorities in the current budget environment.
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count            Specialty                      Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
From September              4   Rene Vaurs, Task manager &
25 to October 5,                senior economist
1992                            William Cooper, Vocational
Education Specialist,
Slaheddine Ben -Halima,
Procurement specialist
Alastair Rodd, Consultant
Appraisal/Negotiation
From February               4   Rene Vaurs, Task manager
27 to March 15,                 & senior economist
1993                            William Cooper, Vocational
Education Specialist,
Slaheddine Ben-Halima,
Procurement specialist
Alastair Rodd, Consultant
May 10, 1993                6   Rene Vaurs, Task manager &
senior economist,
Birger Fredriksen, Division
Chief,
William Cooper, Vocational
Education Specialist,
Slaheddine Ben-Halima,
Procurement specialist
Alastair Rodd, Consultant,
Miquel Saponara, Economist
Supervision
From October 31             3   Rene Vaurs, Task manager           HS              HS
to November 27,                 & senior economist
1993                            William Cooper, Vocational
Education Specialist,
Slaheddine Ben-Halima,
Procurement specialist
From October 12 -           2   William Cooper, Vocational          S               S
26, 1994                        Education Specialist,
Serge Theunynck, Procurement
and Implementation specialist
Mar 15-27, 1995             2   William Cooper, Vocational          S               S
Education Specialist,
Rosemary Bellew, Education
Planner
June 2 - 6, 1995            2   William Cooper, Vocational          S               S
Education Specialist,
Rosemary Bellew, Education
Planner
- 21 -



Oct 22-27, 1995             2   William Cooper, Vocational         S               S
Education Specialist,
Rosemary Bellew, Education
Planner
Mar 3-14, 1996              2   William Cooper, Vocational          S              S
Education Specialist,
Rosemary Bellew, Education
Planner
Oct 31-Nov 16,              4   Djamalddine Rouag, Senior          U               U
1996 (a)                        Education Specialist
William Cooper, Vocational
Education Specialist,
Slaheddine Ben Halima,
Implementation Specialist,
Souleymane Sow, Operations
officer
MTR Mar 16-23               2   Djamalddine Rouag, Senior          U               U
1997                            Education Specialist
William Cooper, Vocational
Education Specialist,
Souleymane Sow, Operations
officer
March 29 - April            3   Djamalddine Rouag, Senior          U               U
1, 1997                         Education Specialist
William Cooper, Vocational
Education Specialist,
Souleymane Sow, Operations
Officer
Oct 19 - 30, 1997           6  Djamalddine Rouag, Senior           U               U
Education Specialist
William Cooper, Vocational
Education Specialist,
Papineau, Architecte,
Procurement Specialist,
Souleymane Sow, Operations
Officer,
Abeille, Architect, procurement
specialist,
M. Gaye, Financial Management
Specialist
June 18 -July 1,            3   Djamalddine Rouag, Senior           S              S
1998 (b)                        Education Specialist
Abeille, Architect, procurement
specialist A Zhiri, Education
Specialist
February 12 - 24,           3   Djamalddine Rouag, Senior          S               S
1999                            Education Specialist
Abeille, Implementation and
procurement specialist,
Souleymane Sow, Senior
operations officer
- 22 -



June 30 - July 16,          2   Djamalddine Rouag, Senior            S               S
1999                            Education Specialist,
Souleymane Sow, Senior
operations officer
From 13 - 27                2   Djamalddine Rouag, Senior            S               S
October, 1999                    Education Specialist,
Souleymane Sow, Senior
operations officer
From July 18 -               4   Mercy Tembon, Senior                S               S
August 1, 2000                   Education Specialist (Mission
leader),
Souleymane Sow, Senior
operations officer,
Abdoulaye Coulibaly, financial
management specialist
Hamedou Ould Hamed,
procurement specialist
ICR
From November               3    Mercy Tembon, Senior                S               S
25 - December                    Education Specialist
9, 2000                          (Mission leader),
Souleymane Sow, Senior
Operations Officer,
Magaye Gaye, Financial
Management Specialist
(a) Summary ratings were unsatisfactory because of: (i) lack of progress in restructuring vocational
education particularly concerning (i) the status governing the internal operation of personnel in the
technical and vocational training system, due in September 1994, (ii) three years delay in the study to
evaluate and suggest options for alternative financing mechanisms of the sub-sector, (iii) 2yrs delay in the
construction of ENEMP; (iv) low number of operations financed through training support funds (SSPE and
FAAF).
(b) After the midterm review in March 1997, good progress was made on the policy measures agreed
upon by the government. In January, 1998, Decree No. 98 007 defining the status of professional and
vocational training, was approved and made law. In July, the decrees towards improving the operation and
financial autonomy of training institutions were also approved. The study on financing mechanisms, agreed
upon at the midterm review was completed and available. This clear demonstration of political desire to
move towards educational reform caused the rating to be changed from U to S.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               26.7                         51.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                    29.4                         60.3
Supervision                             111.4                        290.2
ICR                                      10.3                         24.6
Total                                   177.8                        426.8
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                        ORH  OSUOM  O N  * NA
L Sector Policies                       O H  OSU*M  ON  O NA
O Physical                              OH *SUOM ON ONA
O Financial                             OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Institutional Development             0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
CI PovertyReduction               OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
Fl Gender                         OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
O Private sector development            0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management             0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS-Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
I Lending                                             OHS*S Ou OHU
O Supervision                                         OHS *S   OU   OHU
0 Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
O Preparation                                         OHS OS   O  u  O HU
El Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
LI Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
El Overall                                           OHS OS   O  u  O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report No. I 1806-MAU, June 4, 1993.
Development Credit Agreement, July 2, 1993.
Aide-Memoires from October 1994 to December 2000.
Project Implementation Completion Report, Third Education Project (Credit 1943-MAU), June 4, 1996.
Evaluation Finale PROVALEP, January 26, 2000
- 26 -



