Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2521 MAU
                   Development Credit Agreement
   (Technical Education and Vocational Training Support Project)
                              between
                  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 2, 1993
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2521 MAU
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1993, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
MAURITANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS: (B) the Association has received a letter dated May
26, 1993, from the Borrower describing the sector policy designed to
restructure the Borrower's Technical Education and Vocational
Training Sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commit-
ment to the execution of the Program;
      WHEREAS: (C) the Borrower intends to obtain from the French
Fonds d'Aide de Cooperation (FAC) a grant (the FAC Grant) in an
aggregate principal amount of FF 12 million to assist in financing
parts of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and FAC (the FAC
Grant Agreement); and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
Page  2
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)   "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit established
under the Development Credit Agreement (Second Education Project)
dated May 20, 1982 between the Borrower and the Association;
      (b)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated April 23, 1993 and April
27, 1993 between the Borrower and the Association;
      (c)   "Special Account" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (d)   "MEN" means Ministere de l'Education Nationale, of the
Borrower;
      (e)   "MFPTJS" means Ministere de la Fonction Publique,
Travail, Jeunesse et Sports of the Borrower;
      (f)   "MPEM" means Ministere des Peches et de l'Economie
Maritime of the Borrower;
      (g)   "MP" means Ministere du Plan of the Borrower;
      (h)   "DET" means Directorate of Technical Education in MEN;
      (i)   "DFP" means Directorate of Vocational Training in
MFPTJS;
      (j)   "DFM" means Directorate of Maritime Training in MPEM;
      (k)   "IMO" means International Maritime Organization;
      (l)   "CFPP" means Centre de Formation et de Perfectionnement
Professionnel, an establishment providing vocational upgrading
training;
      (m)   "CFPR" means Centre de Formation et de Perfectionnement
Regional, regional branches of CFPP;
      (n)   "CSET" means Centre Superieur d'Enseignement Technique,
an institution dispensing post-secondary technical education;
      (o)   "ENEMP" means Ecole Nationale d'Enseignement Maritime de
la Peche;
      (p)   "CGEM" means Confederation Generale des Employeurs
Mauritaniens;
      (q)   "FIAP" means Federation Industrielle des Armateurs de
Peche;
      (r)   "CRES" means Centre de Ressources et de Suivi, to be
established under the Project;
Page  3
      (s)   "TSF" means Training Support Fund to be established
under, and funded by the Project;
      (t)   "ISF" means Fond de Soutien aux Projets d'Etablissements
de Formation (Institutional Support Fund) funded by FAC;
      (u)   "ouguiya" and "UM" mean the currency of the Borrower;
      (v)   "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower;
      (w)   "IAPSO" means Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
of UNDP.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eight million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 8,900,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in convertible ouguiyas two special deposit
accounts (Special Accounts A and B), in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropri-
ate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment, one account
(Special Account A) to serve the Project with the exception of
Part D, paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and the other
(Special Account B) for Part D, paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement only. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  4
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 15 and December 15
commencing December 15, 2003 and ending June 15, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on June 15,
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consider-
ation by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, education management, pedagogical and
architectural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and, except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
Page  5
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, not
later than October 30, 1995, or at such other date as the Borrower
and the Association shall agree upon, carry out a joint in-depth
review of the Project implementation (mid-term review), such review
to focus on: (i) the effectiveness of Project management; (ii)
progress in meeting the Project's development objectives assessed
against monitoring indicators as attached to the Program; (iii) the
policy of the technical education and vocational training sector in
view of the aptitude of such policy to meet perceived needs of the
labour market; (iv) functions and organization of CRES; and (v) the
evaluation of TSF operations, and the effectiveness of its institu-
tional framework, following analysis of the audit reports referred
to under paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; such mid-term
review to be attended by all donors providing assistance to the
Project;
      (b)   furnish to the Association, not later than one month
prior to such mid-term review, a report, intended to prepare such
review, with proposals to improve the effectiveness of project
implementation, as the case may be; and
      (c)   following such review, act promptly and diligently in
taking any action deemed necessary by the participants of the mid-
term review, and to prepare and implement an action plan and take
such measures satisfactory to the Association as appropriate in
furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, and shall cause
to be maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                   for Special Accounts A and B, for each fiscal
                   year audited in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
                   tion;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
                   able, but in any case not later than six months
                   after the end of each such year, a certified
                   copy of the report of such audit by said audi-
                   tors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                   Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other informa-
                   tion concerning said records, accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Association shall from time
                   to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
Page  6
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Asso-
                   ciation has received the audit report for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Credit Account or payment out of Special
                   Account A or B was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are audit-
                   ed semi-annually in accordance with the princi-
                   ples referred to in paragraph (b) of this Sec-
                   tion and that the report of such audit contains
                   a separate opinion by said auditors as to
                   whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                   during such six month period, together with the
                   procedures and internal controls involved in
                   their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                   the related withdrawals. A certified copy of
                   such audit by said auditors shall be submitted
                   to the Association within six months after the
                   end of such audit period.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out.
      (b)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the pro-
                   ceeds of the FAC Grant, made to the Borrower for
                   financing parts of the Project, shall have been
                   suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
                   in part, pursuant to the terms of the FAC Grant
                   Agreement;
           (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
                   faction of the Association that: (A) such sus-
                   pension, cancellation, or termination is not
                   caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
                   any of its obligations under such agreement; and
                   (B) adequate funds for the Project are available
                   to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
                   conditions consistent with the obligations of
                   the Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01  of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(b) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
Page  7
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the FAC
Grant Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement;
      (b)   the Project Manager and the Administrator of PCU
referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, have
been appointed in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph
and have assumed their positions;
      (c)    the Borrower has promulgated legal instruments
establishing:
             (1)   the Policy Committee referred to in paragraph 2
                   of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
             (2)   the Technical Committee referred to in paragraph
                   3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
             (3)   the CRES, referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule
                   4 to this Agreement;
      (d)   all members of the Policy Committee referred to in
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and the Technical
Committee referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment, have been appointed; and
      (e)   the independent auditor referred to in Section 4.01 (b)
of this Agreement, has been appointed in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement under a
multi-year contract.
      Section 6.02. The date one hundred fifty (150) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministere du Plan
            BP 238
            Nouakchott
            Mauritania
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   MP                        540 MTN
                   Nouakchott
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
Page  8
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
                         By /s/ Mohamed Fall Ainina
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Katherine Marshall
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works for:
    (a)  Part B(1)(a)          1,670,000        100%
         of the Project
    (b)  Part B(1)(b)             70,000        100%
         of the Project
    (c)  Part B(1)(c)            180,000        100%
         of the Project
(2) Equipment, materials
    and supplies for:
    (a)  Part B(2)(a)          1,200,000        100%
         of the Project
    (b)  Part B(2)(b)            300,000        100%
         of the Project
    (c)  Part B(2)(c)            670,000        100%
         of the Project
(3) Vehicles                     260,000        100%
Page  9
(4) Training and                 630,000        100%
    Fellowships
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5) Consultants                2,000,000        100%
    Services
(6) Support Fund                 290,000        100%
(7) Incremental                  280,000        100%
    Operating Costs
(8) Refunding of                 350,000        Amounts due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement
(9) Unallocated                1,000,000
                               _________
    TOTAL                      8,900,000
                               =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Incremental
Operating Costs" means expenditures related to operation and
maintenance of PCU vehicles, furniture and equipment; PCU staff
travel within the territory of the Borrower; salaries of the PCU
Project Manager and Administrator referred to in paragraphs 1 (a)
and 1 (b), respectively, of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and office
supplies, public utility and communication expenses for PCU.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
      (b)   payments made, or to be made, in respect of expenditures
to be withdrawn:
            (1)    from Category 6 of the table set forth in para-
                   graph 1 of this Schedule, unless the Borrower
                   has: (A) established TSF, referred to in para-
                   graph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, under a
                   Statute satisfactory to the Association;
                   (B) appointed the independent technical auditor
                   referred to in paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this
                   Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of
                   said paragraph; and (C) adopted the manual of
                   procedures for TSF in substance acceptable to
                   the Association;
            (2)    from Categories (1) (b) and (2) (b) of the table
                   set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule,
                   unless the Borrower has adopted a plan for the
                   restructuring of CFPP, and has started the
                   implementation of a staffing plan acceptable to
                   the Association; and
            (3)    from Categories (1) (a) and (2) (a) of the table
                   set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule,
                   unless the Borrower has:
                   (A)   concluded an agreement with FIAP providing
                         for: (i) private sector contribution for
                         the operating costs of ENEMP during
                         Project implementation; and (ii) a reason-
Page  10
                         able representation of FIAP on the Board
                         of ENEMP, satisfactory to the Association;
                         and has furnished to the Association a
                         legal opinion within the meaning of Sec-
                         tion 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions,
                         that such agreement has been duly autho-
                         rized or ratified by the Borrower and
                         FIAP, and is legally binding upon the
                         Borrower and FIAP in accordance with its
                         terms;
                   (B)   adapted the Statute governing ENEMP to
                         include FIAP representation on its Board;
                         and
                   (C)   adopted a plan for the restructuring of
                         ENEMP, and has started the implementation
                         of a staffing plan acceptable to the
                         Association.
                         SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
developing a coherent, unified, efficient public and private
technical education and vocational training system, staffed largely
by national, well trained, qualified and experienced instructors and
responsive to the actual training needs of the labour market.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Training
1.    Technical Instructor Training
      (a)   Carrying out an emergency instructor training program
under the management of CSET, including training abroad and
provision of regional fellowships; and
      (b)   establishing a permanent instructor training capacity
with the assistance of CRES.
2.    Maritime Sector Training
      Development and implementation of school- and ship-based
training programs for sailors and officers, including training
abroad for officers.
3.    Planning and Management Training.
      Carrying out a training program with DET, DEP and DFM to: (i)
strengthen sector high level staff's faculty of planning, program-
ming and evaluation; and (ii) improve the knowledge in data handling
and the use of office technology of sector mid-level staff.
Part B:     Construction, Equipment and Vehicles
1.    Construction
      (a)   Construction of a new ENEMP facility, including
residential quarters;
      (b)   Rehabilitation of existing buildings and workshop
facilities for CFPP; and
      (c)   Construction of a new hangar for Boghe Agricultural
College;
2.    Equipment
Page  11
      Acquisition of equipment for:
      (a)   ENEMP;
      (b)   CFPP; and
      (c)   CRES, DET, DFP, DFM, CSET and PCU;
3.    Vehicles
      Acquisition of vehicles for CFPP, CFPR, DET, DFP, DFM, CRES
and PCU.
Part C:     Revitalization of the Vocational Training System
            (CFPP)
1.    Restructuring of CFPP and development of informal sector
training activities;
2.    Carrying out small-scale surveys of informal sector training
needs, and development of training modules responding to theses
needs.
Part D:     Sector Management
1.    Establishment of CRES to support the development of the
technical education and vocational training sector;
2.    Establishment of TSF to assist in financing training activi-
ties in support of enterprises;
3.    Establishment of ISF to assist in financing training activi-
ties in support of training institutions;
4.    Carrying out a study to evaluate alternate options of
financing mechanisms of the vocational training system, and
implementation of its recommendations.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 30, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency compo-
nents and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
Page  12
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for works, equipment,
furniture and vehicles shall be grouped into bid packages estimated
to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more.
3.    All goods shall be exempt from pre-shipment price inspection
by a third party inspection firm.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Islamic
Republic of Mauritania may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    (a)   Items or groups of items for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $150,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association;
      (b)   Items or groups of items for equipment, furniture and
supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $700,000 may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international
shopping, or from IAPSO.
2.    Items or groups of items for equipment, furniture and supplies
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $150,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guide-
lines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $120,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract, required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d), shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Accounts in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Accounts, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract, together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
Page  13
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-
based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters
of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not
apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent
each. However, this exception to prior Association review or
approval requirements by the Association shall not apply to the
terms of reference for such contracts nor to the employment of
individuals, to single-source hiring of firms, to assignments of a
critical nature as reasonably determined by the Association, and to
amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $75,000
equivalent or above.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
      The Borrower shall:
1.    during the execution of the Project, maintain PCU, and
appoint: (a) a suitably qualified Project Manager with experience in
the coordination of educational institutes and curricula; and (b) a
qualified and experienced Administrator; both recruited in accor-
dance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement; both positions to remain staffed by suitably qualified
and experienced persons acceptable to the Association at all times;
such PCU to administer and coordinate Project activities and monitor
Project implementation;
2.    establish the Policy Committee ("comite de pilotage"), with
membership to include representatives of key ministries responsible
for training and manpower development, and representatives of
employers; with duties and responsibilities to include, inter alia:
(i) the oversight of the implementation of action plans for
technical education and vocational training; (ii) the promotion of
the relevance and coherence of the technical education and
vocational training program; (iii) the facilitation of communication
between employers and the training institutions; (iv) the control of
adherence to previously agreed upon policy objectives; (v) the
mobilization of public and private financing; and (vi) the recommen-
dation for adjustments where required;
3.    establish a Technical Committee ("directoire"), consisting of
the Director of Human Resources of MP, the Director of DET, the
Director of DFP, the Director of DFM, and two representatives of
Page  14
CGEM; such Technical Committee to serve as secretariat of the Policy
Committee, referred to under paragraph 2 of this Schedule, with
functions inter alia: (a) to foster the cooperation between the
implementing ministries; (b) with respect to all technical education
and vocational training institutions: (i) to supervise the implemen-
tation of annual work programs according to guidelines issued by the
Policy Committee; (ii) to examine annual operating and investment
budgets; and (iii) to provide general management support; (c) to
supervise the operations of CRES, referred to under paragraph 4 of
this Schedule; and (d) to approve expenditures under TSF, referred
to under paragraph 5 of this Schedule, for training, based on CRES
reviewed applications;
4.    establish CRES, to operate under the supervision ("tutelle")
of the Technical Committee, referred to under paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, its functions to include, inter alia: (a) support of
the sector in such areas as: (i) system development; (ii) program
planning; (iii) curricula design; (iv) implementation evaluation;
(v) research; and (vi) public relations; and (b) assistance to the
Technical Committee referred to in paragraph 3 of this Schedule in
the evaluation of applications for TSF financing;
5.    establish TSF to assist in the financing of training for
enterprises, operating in conformity with eligibility criteria
acceptable to the Association, and with its manual of procedures
acceptable to the Association; such manual not to be amended,
suspended, revoked or replaced without the prior approval of the
Association;
6.    furnish, pursuant to Section 9.06 (a) of the General Condi-
tions and without restriction or limitation to the reporting
obligations outlined therein, semi-annually in March and September
of each year, progress reports to the Association in such form and
detail as the Association shall reasonably request;
7.    have an independent technical auditor, appointed in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement,
audit TSF procedures, records and accounts semi-annually according
to terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, the first
such audit to be held six months after the establishment of TSF;
8.    hold, annually in September, a project implementation review
meeting with the Association, based on the previously submitted
Project work program and budget for the following year, to assess,
inter alia: (a) the progress of the Project against monitoring
indicators as attached to the Program, and (b) the technical audits
of TSF;
9.    initiate a study to evaluate alternative options of financing
mechanisms of the vocational training system prior to January 1,
1994, and implement the recommendations of such study after
consultation with the Association, to be operational for the
Borrower's 1995 fiscal year;
10.   adopt, by September 30, 1994, the Statutes governing: (a)
internal operations, and (b) personnel of the Borrower's Technical
Education and Vocational Training Institutions acceptable to the
Association; and
11.   provide evidence that ENEMP training programs are validated by
IMO and implemented by ENEMP, in accordance with IMO standards and
practices, effective for the academic year 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                         Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
Page  15
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 for Special Account A and $100,000 for
Special Account B, respectively, to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into said Special Accounts pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that Special Accounts A and B have been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
said Special Accounts A and B shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the applicable Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request
or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Accounts such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                   quests for deposits into the Special Accounts at
                   such reasonable intervals as the Association
                   shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required pursu-
                   ant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which replen-
                   ishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
                   deposit into the Special Accounts such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Accounts for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into either of said Special Accounts:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
Page  16
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
respective Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Catego-
ries shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
respective Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of any one of the Special Accounts: (i) was
made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
respective Special Accounts (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Association into the respective Special Accounts shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the respective Special Accounts will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
respective Special Accounts.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
