Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3984 ET 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Post Secondary Education Project) 
 
between 
 
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated January 4, 2005 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3984 ET 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 4, 2005, between the Federal Democratic 
Republic of Ethiopia (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter from the Borrower, dated 
March 4, 2004, describing a program designed to increase the quality and accessibility of 
its post-secondary education, improving the quality of teaching and learning, increasing 
innovation and modernization at all levels of its institutions for higher education;  
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Annual Work Plan” means a plan submitted by the Borrower during 
each Project Year (as hereinafter defined), and the first such plan referred to in Section 
6.01 (d) of this Agreement, setting forth  planned activities, budget, as well as financial, 
accounting, disbursement, procurement and administrative procedures for 
implementation of Parts A.2 and  B of the Project, and, “Annual Work Plans” means all 
Page  3
-
2
-
such plans referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time; 
(b) 
“
Birr
”
means the currency of the Borrower; 
(c) 
“DIF” means a development innovation fund, established by the 
Borrower as a mechanism for promoting innovation and modernization in the Higher 
Education (as hereinafter defined) system, and which constitutes Part A.3 of the Project; 
(d) 
“DIF Beneficiary” means a Public Institution (as hereinafter defined) to 
which a DIF Grant is made under Part A.3 of the Project; 
(e) 
“DIF Grant Agreement” means the Agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and a DIF Grant Beneficiary for the purpose of financing a DIF 
Subproject under Part A.3 of the Project; 
(f) 
“DIF Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made to a Public 
Institution (as hereinafter defined) under Part A.3 of the Project; 
(g) 
“DIF Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 6.01 
(c) of this Agreement and consisting of different schedules setting forth the eligibility 
criteria, terms and conditions of DIF Grant and Performance Agreements and their 
procurement, accounting, evaluation and monitoring requirements, and other related 
procedures for processing of DIF Subprojects (as hereinafter defined), including, detailed 
performance indicators to be used for Part A.3 of the Project, as the same may be 
amended from time to time; 
(h) 
“DIF Oversight Committee” means the committee referred to in 
paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement with the responsibility for providing 
oversight and policy guidance under Part A.3 of the Project;  
(i) 
“DIF Subproject” means a proposal by an academic staff member or 
administrator of a Public Institution (as hereinafter defined) for advancement of 
performance of academic programs or management functions, and consistent with the 
Public Institution’s strategic plan; 
(j) 
“EHESI” means Ethiopia Higher Education Strategy Institute, a unit in 
the MoE (as hereinafter defined); 
(k) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
Page  4
-
3
-
(l) 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the borrower’s fiscal year beginning July 8 
and ending July 7 of the next calendar year; 
(m) 
“Higher Education” means Higher Education as defined in the Higher 
Education Proclamation No. 351 of 2003, of the laws of the Borrower; 
(n) 
“Institutional Development Grant Beneficiary” means any of the 
following Higher Education (as hereinafter defined) institutions: Addis Ababa University, 
Alemaya University, Arba Minch University, Bahir Dar University, Gondar University, 
Debub University, Jimma University, Makele Univeristy and Nazareth College of 
Technical Teacher Education, all to whom Institutional Development Grant may be made 
under Part A.1 of the Project;   
(o) 
“Institutional Development Grant Performance Agreement” means the 
Agreement to be entered into between Borrower and an Institutional Development Grant 
Beneficiary for the purpose of financing an activity under Part A.1 of the Project; 
(p) 
“Institutional Development Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be 
made to a Block Grant Beneficiary (as hereinafter defined) under Part A.1 of the Project; 
(q) 
“MoE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education; 
(r) 
“NBE” means National Bank of Ethiopia, the Borrower’s central bank; 
(s) 
“PPD” means the Planning and Programming Department within MoE 
with the responsibility for reviewing, screening, appraising and recommending proposals 
for DIF Subprojects under Part A.3 of the Project; 
(t) 
“Procurement Plans” means the Borrower’s procurement plans for: (i) 
Part A of the Project; and (ii) Part B of the Project, all dated June 2, 2004 covering the 
initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 to this 
Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(u) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement; 
(v) 
“Project Year” means the twelve-month period beginning on September 
1, 2004, and ending on September 1, 2005, (the First Project Year), and any twelve-
month period beginning at the end of the First Year, or end of subsequent Project Years; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(w) 
“Public Institution” means a public institution as defined under the 
Higher Education Proclamation; 
(x) 
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
(y) 
“TVET” means Technical and Vocational Education and Training under 
the Borrower’s established vocational training centers; 
(z) 
“TVET Office” means the office within MoE with the responsibility for 
coordination, management and monitoring of activities under Part B of the Project, as 
further described in paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(aa) 
“TVET Steering Committee” means the committee with the 
responsibility for oversight and policy guidance of activities under Part B of the Project, 
as further described in paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-seven million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 27,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, to 
be paid) by Borrower on account of withdrawals  made by: (A) an Institutional 
Development Grant Beneficiary under an Institutional Development Grant, or (B) a DIF 
Beneficiary under a DIF Grant, all to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the carrying out of an activity under Part A.1 of the Project, or a DIF 
Subproject under Part A.3 of the Project, in respect  of which the withdrawal from the 
Credit Account is requested. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars in NBE: (i) a special deposit account (Special Account “A”) for purposes of 
depositing the corresponding proceeds of the Credit for Part A.3 of the Project; and (ii) a 
Page  6
-
5
-
special deposit account (Special Account “B”) for the purposes of depositing the 
corresponding proceeds of the Credit for Parts A.1, A.2 and B of the Project, all  on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, each 
respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
5
to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 1, 2009, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 
15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2014 and ending May 15, 2044. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2024 shall be one 
Page  7
-
6
-
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling 
six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out 
in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, 
that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of United States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, technical, financial, environmental, and education practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plans. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plans in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plans, for the 
Association’s approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure continued achievement of Project’s objectives; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, for the purpose of making available its counterpart 
contribution to the financing of the Project, shall: 
Page  9
-
8
-
(a) 
open and maintain, for the duration of the Project, an account in 
Birr
 in 
NBE, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (the “Project Account”); 
(b) 
promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit in an amount of 
Birr 
170,000 
to finance its contribution to the costs of the Project; 
(c) 
thereafter deposit into the Project Account  on a quarterly basis, the 
amount required to timely replenish said Project Account back to the amount of the initial 
deposit; and 
(d) 
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used 
exclusively to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services for the Project in addition to those financed from 
the proceeds of the Credit. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
Page  10
-
9
-
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraphs 10 and 11 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
Page  11
-
10
-
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, not later than 6 months after Effective Date, 
appoint the independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, with 
experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Association, and shall employ them in 
accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.  
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01(b) of the General Conditions:  
(a) 
the Borrower has: (i) established the accounting and financial 
management system, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, to ensure 
proper accounting and monitoring of Project funds; (ii) prepared standard reporting 
formats and chart of accounts on recording and reporting of Project financial transactions, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and (iii) employed two accountants 
to the Planning and Programming Department, with qualifications and terms of reference  
satisfactory to the Association; 
Page  12
-
11
-
(b) 
the Borrower has opened the Project Account pursuant to 
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement and has deposited therein the initial deposit referred to 
in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;  
(c) 
the Borrower has adopted the DIF Operational Manual with all schedules 
thereof, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and 
(d) 
the Borrower has completed an Annual Work Plan for implementation of 
Parts A.2 and B of the Project during the first Project Year, satisfactory in form and 
substance to the Association. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.  
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Development of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Minister of Finance and Economic Development 
 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development 
 
PO Box 1905 
 
Addis Ababa 
 
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
2114 251-1551355 
2115  
Page  13
-
12
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA 
 
By
 
/s/ Sufian Ahmed 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
/s/ Ishac Diwan 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods 
 
100 % of foreign 
 
expenditures and 
 
(a) for Part A.2 of  
1,100,000 
90 % of local 
 the 
Project 
 
expenditures 
 
(b) for Part B of 
900,000 
 the 
Project 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services and 
 
training, including audits 
 
(a) for Part A.2 of the Project 
1,630,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 
 
85
%
of local  
 
(b) for Part B of the Project 
1,850,000 
expenditures 
 
(3) 
Institutional Development  
10,940,000 
100% of the amount  
 
Grant  under Part A.1 of  
 
disbursed 
 
 
 
the Project  
 
(4) 
 DIF Subprojects 
10,300,000 
100% of the amount  
 
under Part A.3 of  
 
disbursed 
 the 
Project 
 
(5) Unallocated 
680,000 
 
_________
TOTAL 27,400,000 
 
========  
Page  15
-
14
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
(a) 
 payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;   
(b) 
payments made for expenditures under Category (3) for Institutional 
Performance Development Grants unless, an Institutional Development Grant 
Performance Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower and an Institutional 
Development Grant Beneficiary, in accordance with the terms and conditions referred to 
in paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as shall be evidenced by the first such 
Institutional Development Grant Performance Agreement furnished to the Association for 
its prior approval;  
(c) 
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) and (2) unless the 
Higher Education institution and the TVET institution have each, submitted an Annual 
Work Plan based on expected expenditure for their respective institutional development, 
as set forth in paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and  focusing on the 
Borrower’s development policy objectives; and  
(d) 
payments made for expenditures under Category (4), until and unless: (i) 
a
DIF Grant Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower and a DIF 
Beneficiary, in accordance with the terms and conditions referred to in paragraph 6 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as shall be evidenced by the first such DIF Grant 
Agreement furnished to the Association for its prior approval; and (ii) the Borrower has 
employed a short term international procurement specialist and a long term national 
procurement specialist, in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $150,000 equivalent per contract; (b) for services of individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; and (c) for services of 
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, all 
Page  16
-
15
-
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s efforts to increase 
human resource development capacity at its post-secondary education level. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
University Education
1. 
Supporting improvement of education quality and relevance, including 
implementation of policy reforms set forth in the Higher Education Proclamation, 
through the provision of Institutional Development Grants to an Institutional Grant 
Beneficiary.  
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of MoE for management of expanded higher 
education functions, including establishment of three new higher education system 
support agencies including, a quality and relevance assurance agency, a higher education 
strategy institute, a national pedagogical resource center and institutional pedagogical 
resource centers, all through  the acquisition of goods and provision of technical advisory 
services. 
3. 
Establishing the Development Innovation Fund, as a financing mechanism for 
promoting innovation and modernizing staff teaching, student learning and management 
of the DIF Beneficiaries, including supporting, 
inter alia
,
DIF Subprojects proposals for 
innovative development activities including, post-graduate degree education, professional 
training, research, teaching and laboratory equipment, information technology, scientific 
journals, textbooks, expatriate academic staff, administration reorganization, institutional 
partnerships, consultation meetings, technical workshops and strengthening the capacity 
for management and institutional planning.  
Part B
:
Technical and Vocational Innovation Education and Training
Strengthening the capacity of MoE to implement TVET reform, including: 
1. 
carrying out professional and skill development programs to build the capacity 
for TVET systems, including, long-term degree training and advanced diploma programs 
in high priority areas, and short-term training through workshops and seminars.  
Page  18
-
17
-
2. 
supporting activities for monitoring, evaluating and researching the impact of 
TVET system reforms, and carrying out studies at the regional and federal levels in 
specific occupational areas to determine training needs for developing quality and 
accurate curricula of TVET studies, developing and testing new curricula and assessment 
methodologies to validate testing and certification procedures. 
3. 
supporting the design and testing of new instructional programs and working 
relationships and partnerships, including developing and testing curricula for 
effectiveness and relevancy, developing prototype instructional materials and assessment 
instruments for sharing with training providers, developing training curricula in new 
areas of post-graduate studies to build the capacity for TVET personnel at policy and 
implementation levels, revising existing middle level training curricula to incorporate 
new service standards and accreditation requirements. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 1, 2009. 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the 
Procurement Guidelines), and with  the provisions of this Schedule. 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the 
provisions of this Schedule. 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, contracts shall be awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic preferences in the evaluation 
of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.  
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures 
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding. 
2. Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping.   
Page  20
-
19
-
3. Direct 
Contracting
Goods which the Association agrees meet the requirements for Direct 
Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said procurement 
method. 
4. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Office and field equipment estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured directly from Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office 
(IAPSO) in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.9 of the Procurement 
Guidelines. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods for Procurement of
 Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
For the purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of 
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures 
1. Quality-based 
Selection
Services for assignments which the Association agrees meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for assignments which the Association agrees meet the requirements of 
paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured on the basis of Least-cost-
Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
Page  21
-
20
-
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Single Source Selection
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the requirements of paragraph 
3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
5. Individual 
Consultants
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in the first sentence 
of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, may be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a 
sole-source basis, subject to prior approval of the Association. 
Section IV
:
Review by the Association of the Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:  
 
(a) 
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of  $150,000 or 
more; 
(b) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and  
 
(c) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more. 
 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
Part A of the Project
1. 
The Borrowers shall, in relation to Part A of the Project, maintain at all times 
during Project implementation: 
 
(a) 
MoE, specifically the Office of the Vice Minister for Higher Education, 
with the responsibility for overall coordination and monitoring of implementation of 
activities under Part A of the Project, including administration of Institutional 
Development Grants and DIF Subprojects; 
 
(b) 
DIF Oversight Committee with the responsibility for providing oversight 
and policy guidance in implementation of the DIF Subprojects. To this end, the DIF 
Oversight Committee shall be comprised of the Vice Minister for Education, a 
representative of the MoFED,  Head of PPD and the director of EHESI; and 
(c) 
PPD with the responsibility for: (i) financial management, procurement 
and administrative functions of the Project; (ii) encouraging innovation and 
modernization of the higher education system, (iii) publicizing proposals for DIF 
Subprojects; (iv) ensuring consistency of proposals of DIF Subprojects with the 
Borrower’s policy priorities for higher education, and timely submission, review and 
recommendation of proposals for DIF Subprojects to the respective Area Review Panel 
for approval; (v) reviewing and approving DIF Subprojects appraised by a Beneficiary’s 
Proposal Review Committee; and (vi) preparing Performance Agreements for approved 
DIF Subprojects. To this end, the PPD shall designate focal persons with experience and 
qualifications, including work performance satisfactory at all times to the Association. 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause each DIF Beneficiary to establish and thereafter 
maintain at all times during the Project implementation, a Proposal Review Committee 
with the responsibility for: (a) reviewing, appraising, evaluating and recommending to 
the PPD through the respective Academic Vice President, proposals for DIF Subprojects 
not exceeding $20,000 (Level 1 Subproject Proposals), for funding; and (b) reviewing, 
appraising, evaluating and recommending, through the respective Academic Vice 
President to the PPD, proposals for DIF Subprojects not exceeding $150,000 (Level 2 
Subproject Proposals), for processing through the respective Area Review Panel and 
funding,  all in accordance with the criteria established in the DIF Operational Manual. 
Page  23
-
22
-
Part B of the Project
3. 
The Borrower shall, in relation to Part B of the Project, maintain at all times 
during Project implementation: 
 
(a) 
MoE, specifically the TVET Office, with the responsibility for overall 
coordination and monitoring of implementation of activities under Part B of the Project; 
 
(b) 
TVET Steering Committee for providing oversight and  policy guidance 
in implementation Part B of the Project. To this end TVET Steering Committee shall be 
comprised of, 
inter alia
,
a
representative of the MoE, the employer’s federation, the 
chamber of commerce, TVET regional commissions, labor providers, non-governmental 
organizations, and may incorporate such external specialists, as may be necessary from 
time to time; and 
 
(c) 
TVET Office, with the responsibility for preparing and submitting 
Annual Work Plans for activities under Part B of the Project, including, 
inter alia
,
review 
of status in implementation of activities under the preceding Project Year’s Work Plan 
and proposed budget plan for the succeeding Project Year.   
B. Execution 
Covenants
Part A.3 of the Project
4. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, for the purpose of Part A.3 of 
the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) apply the criteria, policies, procedures and guidelines 
set forth in the DIF Operational Manual; and (b) not amend, or abrogate, or waive, or 
permit to be amended, abrogated or waived, the DIF Operational Manual, or any 
provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially 
and adversely affect the implementation of Part A.3 of the Project. 
5. 
Eligibility Criteria for DIF Subprojects
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 4 of this Schedule, no proposal 
for a DIF Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
unless the PPD shall have determined on the basis of appraisal conducted in accordance 
with the guidelines set forth in the DIF Operational Manual, that the relevant DIF 
subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in the DIF Operational Manual, which 
shall include the following: 
Page  24
-
23
-
(a) 
the purpose of the DIF Subproject shall be to advance performance of 
academic programs or management functions, and in compliance with a DIF Beneficiary 
strategic plan; and 
 
(b) 
the proposal for DIF Subproject shall be developed by an academic staff 
member or administrator of a DIF Beneficiary, and identify the means for achieving the 
advancement of performance of academic programs, including, 
inter alia
,
undergraduate 
programs, graduate programs, and leadership and management activities. 
Page  25
-
24
-
6. 
Terms and Conditions for DIF Grant and Performance Agreements
In financing DIF Subprojects, MoE shall enter into DIF Grant Agreements with 
the Beneficiaries concerned under terms and conditions which shall include the 
following:  
 
(a) 
financing shall be on a grant basis, at two levels: (i) level 1 proposals for 
DIF Subprojects shall not exceed $20,000 equivalent per grant, and (ii) level 2 proposals 
for DIF Subprojects shall not exceed $150,000 equivalent per grant; 
 
(b) 
the requirement that the goods, services and training financed out of the 
proceeds of the DIF Grant be procured in conformity with the provisions set forth in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement and the DIF Operational Manual, and that such goods, 
services and training, shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the relevant DIF 
Subproject; and  
 
(c) 
provide the right of MoE to suspend  or terminate the right of a DIF 
Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the DIF Grant upon failure by the DIF Beneficiary to 
perform any of its obligations under the DIF Grant. 
 
Part A.1 of the Project
7. 
Terms and conditions for Financing Activities under Institutional Development 
Grants
(a) 
Pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 8 of this Schedule, any activity 
under Part A.1 of the Project shall be: (i) initiated by an Institutional Development Grant 
Beneficiary and identified as an activity within the specific policy reforms, set forth in 
the Higher Education Proclamation; and (ii) 
in compliance with the Borrower’s strategy 
for development of Higher education. 
(b) 
The MoE shall ensure that to be eligible to carry out an activity under 
Part A.1 of the Project, an Institutional Development Grant Beneficiary shall have: (i) 
submitted to MoE for review and approval, a work plan, including proposed application 
of the Institutional Development Grant; (ii) completed a draft strategic development plan; 
and (iii) fulfilled the following annual conditions: (A) commencing FY 2004 and 
subsequent FYs, establish graduate tax to entering undergraduate students, prior to or 
during FY 2004, complete and appoint DIF Area Review Panels; (B) during FY 2005, 
approve and implement on an initial formula for determining amount and disbursement 
system of the block grants, under the Borrower’s program to support Higher Education 
Institutions; (C) prior to or during FY 2006, and implement its institutional accreditation 
system; and (D) during FY 2007, review its cost sharing scheme and the block grant 
Page  26
-
25
-
formula, and have its inter and intra university education information system and 
financial management reporting systems operational.   
8. 
Institutional Development Grant Performance Agreements
For the purpose of Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall conclude an 
Institutional Development Grant Performance Agreement with each Institutional 
Development Grant Beneficiary, stating details of disbursement and procurement 
procedures and the following additional terms and conditions: 
 
(a) 
require the Institutional Development Grant Beneficiary to carry out the 
activities under Part A.1 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with financial, managerial standards and practices, and maintain adequate 
records; 
 
(b) 
obtain all such information as the Association or the Borrower shall 
reasonably request relating to implementation of Part A.1 of the Project, and the 
performance of the Institutional Development Grant Beneficiary thereunder; and  
 
(c) 
suspend or terminate the right of an Institutional Development Grant 
Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such an Institutional 
Development Grant Beneficiary to perform its obligations under the Institutional 
Development Grant Participation Agreement. 
 
Parts A.2 and B of the Project
9. 
The Borrower shall in relation to Parts A.2 and B of the Project: (a) not later than 
May 31 of each year, prepare and furnish to the Association an Annual Work Plan for the 
succeeding Project Year, in a form and substance satisfactory to the Association; (b) 
prepare and submit the Annual Work Plan for the first Project Year provided for under 
Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement; and (c) thereafter implement Parts A.2 and B of the 
Project or cause Parts A.2 and B of the Project to be implemented in accordance with 
each Annual Work Plan, and, except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, not amend or waive any provision thereof, if in the opinion of the Association, 
such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of Parts 
A.2 and B of the Project or the objectives of the Project. 
 
Page  27
-
26
-
C. 
Monitoring and Reporting
10. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about May 31 in each FY, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended  to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by August 31 in each FY, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
11. Midterm 
Review
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
not later than March 30, 2006 carry out jointly with the Association a 
mid-term review, which shall cover: (i) overall progress in the implementation of the 
Project in meeting the objectives thereof; and (ii) the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities, as measured against the performance indicators;  
(b) 
not later than one month before the review referred to in subparagraph 
(a) above, prepare and furnish to the Association a report in such scope and detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the implementation of the Project and 
achievement of the objectives thereof, including a program of action to deal with 
potential deficiencies in Project implementation as may have been identified prior to 
carrying out such review; and  
(c) 
thereafter, act promptly and diligently in order to take, all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the project and the achievement of the 
Page  28
-
27
-
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  29
-
28
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means:  
(i) 
in respect of the Special Account A, an amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into said Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) 
of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 in respect of the Special 
Account A for Part A.3 of the Project, until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account  of the amount 
allocated to Part A.3 of the Project plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal 
to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 4,000,000; and 
(ii) 
in respect of the Special Account B, an amount equivalent to 
$3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into said Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) 
of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 in respect of the Special 
Account B for Parts A.1, A.2 and B of the Project, until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account  of 
the amount allocated to Parts A.1, A.2 and B of the Project plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of  SDR 
6,000,000. 
Page  30
-
29
-
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested; 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
into the respective Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify; and 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
Page  31
-
30
-
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof 
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Page  32
-
31
-
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  33
-
32
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators 
 
Unless otherwise agreed to by the Association, for the purpose of this 
Agreement, the performance indicators for implementation of the Project are as follows: 
Part A of the Project
1. 
Number of accredited programs and institutions. 
2. 
Number of faculty/ instructors upgraded through short-term and degree training, 
disaggregated by gender. 
3. 
Number of comprehensive Innovation proposals submitted and successfully 
implemented. 
4. 
Number of master’s degrees and PhDs awarded annually, disaggregated by gender. 
5. 
Number of institutional administrators and managers upgraded. 
6. 
Percentage of entering students finishing on time, disaggregated by gender. 
7. 
Percentage of age cohort enrolled in: (a) undergraduate programs, (b) graduate 
programs, and (c) TVET programs, all disaggregated by gender. 
Part B of the Project
1. 
Number of course curricula revised and improved. 
2. 
Number of regional trade and testing centers established and functioning. 
3. 
Number of institution and department level administrators upgraded through 
short-term and degree training. 
4. 
Number of workshops and seminars offered with input from international 
technical assistance. 
Page  34
-
33
-
5. 
Tracer studies and labor market assessments conducted. 
6. 
Number of MA graduates, disaggregated by gender. 
7. 
Number of Advanced Diploma graduates, disaggregated by gender. 
 
