                                                  Documentof
                                              The WorldBank


                                     FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                                         ReportNo: 28169-ET


                                  PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT


                                                      ONA


                                            PROPOSEDCREDIT


                               INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 27.3 MILLION
                                   (USD40 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)


                                                    TO THE


                       FEDERALDEMOCRATICREPUBLICOF ETHIOPIA


                                                     FORA


                             POST SECONDARYEDUCATION PROJECT


                                                August 18,2004


HumanDevelopmentI11
CountryDepartment06
Africa Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only inthe performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                     (Exchange RateEffectiveMay 31,2004)


                     Currency Unit      = Birr
                     Birr 8.6           = US$1
                     US$l               = 1.46275 SDR
                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            July 8      - July7



                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAU      Addis Ababa University
APL       Adaptable ProgramLending
ARP       Area ReviewPanel
AWP       Annual Work Plan
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA      Country Financial Accounting Assessment
CIDA      CanadianIntemational Development Association
CPAR      Country Portfolio Assessment Review
DIF       Development InnovationFund
DOC       DIFOversight Committee
EFA       Education For All
EHESI     Ethiopian Higher Education StrategyInstitute
EMIS      Education Management Information System
EO1       Expressiono fInterest
ESDP      Education Sector Development Program
FMR       Financial Management Report
FMS       Financial Management System
FTI       Fast Track Initiative (EFA)
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GER       GrossEnrollment Ratio
GNP       GrossNational Product
GTZ       Deutsche Gesellscha~~urTechnischeZusamme~arbeit
          (GermanAgency for Technical Cooperation)
HE1       Higher Education Institute
HIVIAIDS  HumanImmunodeficiency ViruslAcquiredImmuneDeficiency Syndrome
ICR       ImplementationCompletion Report
ICT       Informationand Communications Technology
IDA       Intemational Development Association
IDG       Institutional Development Grant
Kfw       Kreditanst~ltfuer ~ i d e r a u (German DevelopmentBank)
                                          ~ ~ u
MA        Master of Arts
MDG       MillenniumDevelopment Goals
MOFED     MinistryofFinance andEconomicDevelopment

                                                       FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




  N C B       NationalCompetitive Bidding
  NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
  NORAD       Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
  NPCU        National Project CoordinatingUnit
  NPRC        National Pedagogical Resource Center
  NUFFIC      Netherlands Organization for InternationalCooperationinHigher Education
  OFAG        Office o fthe FederalAuditor General
  OP          OperationalManual
  PA          Performance Agreement
  PAAC        Project Appraisal andApproval Committee
  Ph.D.       Doctor of Philosophy
  PPD         Planning & ProgrammingDepartment (Ministryof Education)
  PRC         Proposal Review Committee
  PSEP        Post Secondary EducationProject
  QCBS        Quality and Cost Based Selection

  QW          Quality & Relevance Assurance Agency
  RFP         Request for Proposals
   SA         Special Account
   SOE        Statement of Expenditure
   SIDA/SAREC Swedish Intemational Development Agency / Dept. for Research Cooperation
   SIL        Specific Investment Loan
   TA    .    Technical Assistance
   TOR        Terms o f Reference
   TVET       Technical and Vocational Education andTraining
  UNDB        UnitedNations Development Business
  USD         United States Dollar
  vso         Volunteer Service Organization


                            Vice President:      Callisto E.Madavo
                          Country Director:      Ishac Diwan
                           Sector Manager:       Laura Frigenti
                        Task Team Leader:        Gary L.Theisen




This documenthasa restricteddistributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                                       ETHIOPIA
                                    Post SecondaryEducationProject


                                                      CONTENTS


A
. STRATEGIC       CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                    ................................................................... 3
   1. Country and Sector Issues...............................................................................................                 3
   2. Client Initiatives .............................................................................................................         4
   3. Rationale for Bank Involvement .....................................................................................                     6
   4. Higher Level Objectives to Which the Project Contributes .............................................                                   9
B PROJECTDESCRIPTION
.                                        .................................................................................................     10
   1. Lending Instrument ......................................................................................................                10
   2. Program Objectives andPhases....................................................................................                         10
   3. Project Development Objective andKey Indicators......................................................                                    11
   4. Project Components .....................................................................................................                 12
   5. Lessons Learned and Reflectedinthe Project Design ...................................................                                    16
   6 Alternatives ConsideredandReasons for Rejection......................................................
    .                                                                                                                                          18

C IMPLEMENTATION
 .                              ..........................................................................................................     18
   1. Partnership Arrangements.............................................................................................                    18
   2. Institutional andImplementation Arrangements ............................................................                                19
   3. University Component..................................................................................................                   19
   4. TVET Component........................................................................................................                   20
   5. Monitoring andEvaluation of OutcomesResults ..........................................................                                   21
   6. Sustainability................................................................................................................
            . . .                                                                                                                              21
   7. Critical Risks and Possible Controversial Aspects ........................................................                               22
   8. Loadcredit Conditions and Covenants......................................................................... 22
D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
 .                                     ...................................................................................................     23
   1. Economic andFinancialAnalyses ................................................................................                           23
   2. Technical......................................................................................................................          24
   3 Fiduciary......................................................................................................................
    .                                                                                                                                          25
   4. Social........................................................................................................................... 26
   5 Environment.
    .                 ................................................................................................................         27
   6. Safeguard Policies........................................................................................................ 27

Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background.............................................................                29
Annex 2: Major RelatedProjects Financedbythe Bank andor other Agencies IDAFinanced 31
Annex 3: Results Framework andMonitoring Results Framework ...........................................                         32
Annex 4: DetailedProject Description .....................................................................................     38
Annex 5: Project Costs Summary of IDA Funding Support by Project Category ....................                                 44
Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements..................................................................................         45
Annex 7: Financial Management andDisbursementArrangements ..........................................                           52
Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements.......................................................................................       61
Annex 9: Economic andFinancial Analysis .............................................................................          75
Annex 10: SafeguardPolicy Issues........................................................................................... 81
Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision........................................................................          82
Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File .................................................................................       83
Annex 13: Statementof Loans and Credits...............................................................................         88
Annex 14: Country at a Glance ................................................................................................ 90
Annex 15: OPERATIONSMANUAL       (Development Innovation Fund)..........................................                       92


MAP(S) IBRD33065                                                                                                              93

                                       ETHIOPIA
                             Post SecondaryEducationProject
                              ProjectAppraisalDocument
                                  Africa RegionalOffice
                                         AFTH3
Date: August 18,2004                         TeamLeader: Gary L.Theisen
Country Director: IshacDiwan                 Sectors: Tertiary education(88%);
SectorManagermirector: LauraFrigenti         Vocational training (12%)
                                             Themes: Educationfor the knowledge
                                             economy (P);Other humandevelopment(S)

Project ID: PO78692                          Environmental screening category:     Not
                                             Required

Lending Instrument: SpecificInvestmentLoan Safeguardscreeningcategory: No impact

                                 ProjectFinancingData

[ ] Loan   [XI Credit  [ ] Grant  [ ] Guarantee   [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 40.00
Proaosedterms: Standard



                Source                       Local            Foreign         Total
BORROWERRECIPIENT                              0.50            0.00            0.50
INTERNATIONAL         DEVELOPMENT             40.00            0.00           40.00
ASSOCIATION
Total:                                        40.50            0.00           40.50
Borrower: The FederalDemocraticRepublicof Ethiopia
ResnonsibleApencv: Ministrvof Education.Ethionia-                                     I
              -   d

                       Estimateddisbursements(Bank FY/US$m)
             I       I      I        I        I       I         I        I      I
FY            2005    2006   2007     2008

Annual         5.00   10.00   15.00     10.00

Cumulative     5.00   15.00   30.00    40.00




                                           - 1 -

Does the project depart fi-om the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Re$ PAD A.3                                                                     [ ]Yes [XINO


Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                     [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                    [ ]Yes [XINO
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                    [ ]Yes [XINO

Does the project include any critical risks rated"substantial" or "high"?
Re$ PAD C.5                                                                     [XIYes [ ] N o



Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                     [XIYes [ ] N o


Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, Technical Annex 3
Improve humanresource development capacity at the post secondary education level

Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4
Component One: Increase the number and quality o f undergraduate and graduate programs and
graduates inEthiopia universities.
Component Two: Improve human capacity in technical and vocational training programs by
strengthening systems development, institutional leadership andteacher training.
Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD D.6, Technical Annex 10
None

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for: Re$ PAD C8

Boardpresentation: None

Loadcredit effectiveness:
        Preparation o f a standard reporting formats and chart o f accounts on recording and
        reporting o fthe project financial transactions;
        Recruitment oftwo additional accountants at the FinanceUnit o f the PPD;
     3) Open and deposit the initial amount o f Government counterpart contribution in a project
        account;
     4) Submit overdue ESDP audits.
Covenants applicable to project implementation: None




                                                 - 2 -

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXTAND RATIONALE
1. CountryandSector Issues
Ethiopia is one o f the oldest continuous civilizations in the world - and one o f the most
destitute. With GNP per capita of less thanUSD 100 and a population estimated at 65 million, it
i s one o fthe poorest (and largest) countries inthe world. With an illiteracy rate o f 60 %, primary
school completion rates o f 51 and 36 % respectively for Grades 5 and 8, and less than 1 YO
enrolled inhigher education, Ethiopia lacks an adequate human resource base on which to build
its poverty reduction strategy.
Despite its economic position, Ethiopia has taken great strides in recent years to expand and
improve its education system. Under a new govemment elected in 1994, aggregate enrollments
in Grades 1-12 rose at about 9 % a year between 1992-93 and 2001-02.                Non-agricultural
technical and vocational education and training (TVET) school enrollments grew from less than
3,000 students in 1995-96 to an estimated 54,000 in2002-03 (30 % of the previous year's Grade
10 total enrollment). Inpost-secondary education, enrollments rose from around 18,000 in 1990-
91 to 101,729 in2002-03 inpublic institutions (residential and evening students combined).
Poverty alleviation strategies require sustained economic growth, good governance, and political
stability inorder to be effective. Inpursuit o f economic growth, the Government o f Ethiopiahas
embarked upon a medium term strategy o f agriculture-led industrial development accompanied
by a gradual expansion o f the technology and service sectors. Agriculture averages between 45
and 50 % o f total GDP. Growth in agriculture is largely driven by population expansion (85%
rural),  growing at about 2.9% per year, rather than by productivity gains. Economic growth
derives from skilled human resources appropriately applied.       Resulting national productivity
increases leadto greater country competitiveness inthe regional and global economy. University
education and technical and vocational education and training (TVET), ifproperly designed and
linked to the functional needs o f society, can enhance the skilled manpower needed to adapt and
use information and technology to promote innovation and productivity gains. These institutions
determine levels o f capability within the country's pool of higher level managerial, scientific and
technical expertise, the effectiveness with which global knowledge is accessed and applied inthe
solution o f local development problems, and the standards o f quality within lower levels o f
education.
Although access to basic education has improved significantly (over 5% net in the past four
years), university enrollments are only about 0.8% o f the age cohort and enrollments in non-
agricultural TVET programs are just 1.4% o f the same cohort.              The upsurge in primary
enrollments i s already generating pressures for expansion o f secondary education. But to
accommodate secondary growth, post-secondary institutions need to produce more teachers,
administrators and support staff. Curricula at both university and TVET levels are generally
acknowledged to be in need o f improvement, boosts in faculty             numbers and quality are
desirable, and planning and administration o f educational services would be enhanced through
performance and accountability measures.
Government plans an ambitious agricultural TVET program to retrain Ethiopia's existing
agricultural TVET staff of 15,000, and will also prepare an additional 30,000 students to become
agricultural extension agents (expanding the size o f the publicly-financed extension staff to
45,000).



                                                  - 3 -

  Constraints. With less than 2 % o f each age cohort currently enrolled in post-secondary
  education, a desperate shortage o f university educated leaders to staff critical teaching positions
  at the secondary and university level already exists. These shortages will constrain both quality
  improvement efforts andplans for further expansion. Pressure to expand secondary education is
  building as a rising percentage o f the age cohort completes primary education (up 3 % inthe
  past three years). However, secondary teachers are in short supply and many o f those now
  employed as subject specialists have weak technical and pedagogical skills. Technicians, health
  specialists, and budding entrepreneurs, among others, complete their post-secondary education
  without sufficient skills and experience to practice their professions with impact and efficiency.
  Only 15 % o f university staff have been trained at the PhD level. Learningresource materials
  (books, libraries, equipment, lab materials, etc.) are inextremely short supply, and existing space
  needs to be used more efficiently to keep capital investment costs manageable while meeting
  planned growth targets in enrollment. Leadership o f both universities and TVET institutions
  would benefit from strengthening, as few managers have received formal training in leadership,
  personnel administration, or financial planning.

, Bothpublic and private sector TVET institutions would gain effectiveness if they could ensure
  that programs are based on several key principles: (i) services are linked to market demand
                                                             their
  for skills; (ii)the instruction provided is o f sufficient quality to produce the required skills;
  (iii)the training given i s both efficient and cost-effective relative to the skills gained; (iv) access
  is equitable, especially for individuals from rural communities; and (v) the financing required to
  meet current and projected needs does not skew education sector budgets to the detriment o f
  other sector priorities. The TVET curricula needs to be further strengthened inthe development
  o f practical skills. Standards for technical skill certification have not yet been developed for
  some trades and accreditation procedures for TVET institutions have to be refined more.
  Improving the quality o f instruction and establishing accountability in both private and public
  sector service delivery i s a stated priority for government as it attempts to address mid-level skill
  shortages.
  2. ClientInitiatives
  University Education. Ethiopia i s currently engaged in a highly ambitious effort to re-align its
  higher education system inorder to contribute more directly to its national strategy for economic
  growth and poverty reduction.          Its achievements in recent years have been little short o f
  extraordinary. The reforms have targeted all levels: the overall system, the institutions, and the
  academic programs.
  At the system level, eight public universities now stand inplace o f the previous two-university
  "system."
  (regular + evening).
               Total enrollments have nearly tripled from 39,576 in 1996/97 to 101,729 in2002/03
                            Private provision has been initiated and encouraged; some 12 private
  tertiary institutions now enroll 35,402 students or 24% o f all tertiary students. Government
  introduced student cost-sharing in September 2003 through a deferred payment taxation
  mechanism for all future graduates. It has also created three system-wide supervisory bodies
  with respective responsibilities for further policy development, quality assurance, and improved
  pedagogy. All o f this - and more - has been ratified in a new Higher Education Proclamation
  approved by Parliament inJune 2003. The legislation paves the way for implementation o f new
  reforms and development o f innovative procedural mechanisms to realize the vision framed by
  the Proclamation.


                                                    - 4 -

At the institution level, substantial autonomy has been awarded by the new Proclamation.
Recurrent funding will be provided by government in the form o f block grants defined on the
basis o f a funding formula. University Boards and staff will choose their own institutional
leaders, and non-academic staff have been de-linked from the civil service. Strategic planning,
income diversification, and information and communications technology (ICT) development are
being encouraged to meet the fiscal, space and instructionalneeds required to meet the on-going
andplannedexpansion inenrollment.
At the level o f academic programs, new degree courses are being introduced in response to
anticipated labor market needs that underpin the nation's economic development strategy and to
prepare its citizens for democratic participation in civic and social affairs. Graduate program
enrollments are expanding rapidly in the effort to increase the supply o f academic staff for the
expanding system. All existing diploma programs (16% o fpublic enrollments in2001) are being
transferred to technical colleges so that universities may concentrate on degree training. A major
review (involving stakeholders) and upgrading o f university curricula havejust been completed,
adding courses in civics, ethics, communication skills, and entrepreneurship, among others. A
new oversight agency will monitor both the quality and the relevance o f academic programs. To
shore up quality inthe classroom, a series o f national and local pedagogical resource centers are
being set up to encourage instructional innovation and to assist less experienced lecturers.
Incorporation o f ICT into instruction, and as a vehicle for accessing the global network o f
information, will add greater efficiency and depthto the learning process.
These reforms would comprise stunning achievements in any country, but are all the more
significant in one o f the world's most impoverished nations. Ethiopia clearly understands that
economic growth in the 21" century will be driven by the nation's performance in raising its
levels o f national productivity incomparison to its economic competitors, and it is determined to
make up the ground lost over the past two decades because o f political instability and economic
stagnation. These and other examples illustrate the breadth and ambition o f the government's
current higher education reform efforts. They also suggest that the system's current need is to:
(i) effectiveimplementationstrategiesandactionplansforoperationalizingthereforms;
    design
(ii)strengthen national capacities to carry out those strategies; and (iii)ensure that the reforms
are fiscally sustainable within the overall sector budget and within the financial resources
available to higher education.
WET. To provide options for the increasing number o f secondary school leavers, the Ministry
o f Education has recently embarked on a massive expansion o f formal TVET.' The Second
Education Sector Development program (ESDP 11) aims to raise the overall enrolment capacity
from 37,000 in 2001/2 to 130,000 in 2004/5, with an annual new intake capacity o f 55,000. To
immediately increase intakes, vocational streams have been established in comprehensive
secondary schools to complement the training capacities in the existing TVET schools
(126 public institutions in 2001/2). Within the ESDP I1period (2002-05), government plans to
establish 40 new TVETs and to rehabilitate another 75. A total o f 1.787 billion Birr are




  Government operates two streams o f TVET: one for agriculture related training under the management o f the
Ministry ofAgriculture, and another that is managed by the Ministryo fEducation and Regional Education Bureaus.
The focus ofthis project andthe data reported concerns non-agricultural TVET only.


                                                     - 5 -

earmarked under ESDP I1for this capacity expansion, 26% o f the overall capital budget of the
three year sector program. Inthe long run, the Ethiopian Government envisages providing TVET
or other further education opportunities to all secondary school leavers (Grade 10 completers)
who are not enrolled inacademic streams. This policy decision, ifit stands, will induce a further
significant enrolment increase at the post-secondary level.
In2001/2, new TVET programs of one or two years following completion of general secondary
education were introduced by government (Le., "10+1" and "10+2").        Inthe 2003/04 academic
year, a three year program ("10+3")      has been added in junior colleges. Total enrolment in
formal TVET programs in 2001/2 was 38,000, representing 25% o f Grade 10 completers from
the previous academic year. Gender balance i s good with 47% female students. Females are
disproportionately represented in business trades and conventional female occupation groups
such as textile and hospitality trades, and underrepresented intraditional technical trades. O f the
total enrolment, 1,700 students, or 4.5%, were enrolled innon-public institutions. It is likely that
when the accreditationprocess i s rationalized and strengthened, a significant number o f trainees
will be added in private schools, especially those emphasizing business trades (accounting,
secretary, etc).
Inthe late 199Os, government committed to overhaul the TVET system, recognizing that the
country was in dire need o f skilled technicians, that training programs were outdated and that
many programs had little relation to workplace realities. This reform process, however, has
been slow and energies have been absorbed by the massive quantitative expansion o f the public
TVET capacity in line with ESDP targets. As a consequence, programs are being reshaped to
meet actual skills needs inthe economy. Efforts are being made to improve training quality and
link it more closely to on-the-job skill requirements by upgrading the skills of TVET teachers
and by strengthening the management o f TVET institutions. An integration o f training with the
functional requirements o f the world o f work has not yet been adequately achieved. Efforts are
underway to develop curricula in consultation with employers and practitioners but this effort
needs to be strengthened and validated by on-the-job performance assessments.             The new
programs include two-month attachments to a firm at the end o f the academic year.              The
apprenticeship system requires further support and development to ensure that meaningful
cooperationbetween training institutions and employers i s evident inall training programs.
3. Rationale for Bank Involvement
The current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Ethiopia highlights human capacity
development as one o f its three main pillars, the others being pro-poor growth and reduced
human vulnerability to drought, famine and AIDS. A CAS progress report will be presented to
the Board on September 16, 2004 which includes specific reference to a Post-Secondary
Education Project. Achieving universal enrollment in primary school for the relevant age
cohorts by 2015 is one o f nine MDG targets for the country. Ensuring a constant and growing
number o f teachers, school administrators and all the support personnel necessary to make an
education system function i s a critical component o f the strategy for achieving the MDGtarget.
Leadership - social, political, economic and technical - is required in sufficient numbers and
capabilities to energize the transformation from a predominantly agrarian economy to one that is
industry and service led. Facilitation o f this evolution is also a CAS objective and one that
places chief onus for skill development on the higher education and TVET sub-sectors. The
cross-cutting theme inthe CAS is decentralization. Consistent with this, one o f the cornerstones
o f the post-secondary project i s increased autonomy and accountability to standards withinpost-


                                                - 6 -

secondary institutions and the development o f human capacity within these institutions to
manage and lead them with effectiveness and efficiency.
IDAhas beena key donor inthe expansion o f the educationsystem inEthiopia, havinginvested
USD 100 million in a sector support program over the past six years.* Support for basic and
secondary education will continue through the IDA Poverty Reduction Strategy Credits inplace
and planned over the next five years. This support will be critical inbuildingthe infrastructure
and helping to procure the supplies and equipment necessary to operate the rapidly expanding
system, while at the same time enhancing the quality o f instruction that takes place in the
schools. Education's share o f the national budget has remained constant at approximately 14 %
over the past five years (recurrent  +capital).   New donor commitments to educationbeginning in
2003 will amount to USD 125 million annually andbringmuchneededresources into the sector.
Despite the magnitude o f these new investments however, it i s estimated that at current unit cost
rate o f expenditure and economic growth, govemment will only be able to cover about 70 % o f
the recurrent wage bill for primary education in 2015, if the Millennium Development Goal o f
achieving universal primary enrolment is to be achieved (see Country Status Report, World
Bank, 2004). Inaddition to resources, however, the growth of the education system also needs
trained personnelproduced inpost-secondary institutions to teach inand administer primary and
secondary schools. University and TVET graduates are required to fill the demand for medium
and highleveljob skills as the economy slowly transforms.
Among its various targets, ESDP-I1 intends to more than double undergraduate enrollments
(from 35,000 to 80,000), and quadruple graduate enrollments (from 1,350 to 6,000) inthe three-
year target period. The undergraduate expansion goal is likely to be realized, but with impacts
similar to that facing primary education: strain on fiscal resources and management capacity,
shortage o f qualified staff, and concern over the quality o f learning. The demand for higher
education is evidenced by the fact that 47,453 students were enrolled in evening courses in
public universities in2002/03 and an additional 35,402 were enrolled inprivate institutions
IDA has beenone o f the few donors to fundhigher education at a significant level over the past
five years.   Through the ESDP, IDA funds have been used to expand university libraries,
construct classroom buildings, establish and expand teaching hospitals, andbuildlaboratories for
physical science faculties.      As important as these investments have been, they have been
insufficient to enable Ethiopia to keep pace with the need for more higher level graduates.
Government has invested heavily (USD 80 million) in infrastructure over the past four years to
accommodate the rapid expansion inhigher education that is currently under way. However, the
increase inphysical space has not been accompanied by concomitant investments ininstructional
quality, system management, and faculty improvement. The higher education component o fthe
education sector budget for ESDP I1is 3.4 billion Birr, or an annual average o f 22.9 % (24 % for
the current FY) o f the sector budget, which is slightly above regional averages. Expandingthe
higher education allocation further could have serious deleterious effects on the budget for basic
education which has declined during the period o f ESDP I1 from approximately 61% o f the
overall sector budget (under ESDP I)       to an estimated 46.4% (7 billion Birr although the overall
budget allocated to education has increased during that period. Investments in quality and
capacity development are necessary to enable the higher education system to ensure that the



  Education Sector Development Program 11, approved in 1998 for five years (Cr. 30770).


                                                    - 7 -

quality o f its graduates matches their increased numbers. IDA support over the next five years
will help the reforms under way at the post-secondary level take root, will ease the fiscal
pressure placed on the education sector by expansion o f higher level opportunities, and will
contribute to developing better quality o f instruction and management within the institutions
supported.
Any national tertiary system would be hard pressed to substantially expand enrolments while
maintaininglevels of educational quality. Ethiopia faces a double challenge in that it seeks to
accomplish this while also introducing major reforms in institutional governance, management
and curriculum.      If the bold vision contained in the new Higher Education Proclamation
(June 2003) and inthe TVET Proclamation (passed inFebruary 2004) are to have any chance o f
success, the solution to this double challenge will have to be found in a combination o f internal
and external financing and capacity development strategies that underpinthese reforms.
Government's planned expansion o f TVET involves a ten-fold increase in public TVET over
four years at a capital cost o f USD 210 million for the construction o f 71 new TVET facilities
and five colleges. Government plans to absorb 40 % o f Grade 10 leavers into TVET by 2012,
with an annual intake of 55,000 students at a recurrent cost of USD 36 millionper annum. It is
imperative that an investment o f this magnitude produces individuals with skills that are relevant
to the labor market and which are certifiably sufficient to warrant the sizeable investment being
made.    IDA'Sinvestment will complement government's efforts by improving instructional
content and delivery, and by helping to develop trade standards for technical training and
strategies for implementing them.
IDA is ina position to use a limited amount of resources to broaden and deepen the policy and
program initiatives arising from our on-going dialogue and past support, and those that are
currently being assisted by GTZ. By investing in human capacity development Bank financing
will be usedto improve TVET curricula to make it more labor market relevant andmore capable
o f producing uniformly qualified and skilled graduates. New and revised curricula, evaluation,
support for accreditation and national standards will benefit both the agricultural and non-
agricultural TVET efforts. The Bank will work inclose cooperationwith GTZ and its in-country
team o f consultants who have a strategic and technical vision o f the sub-sector that is congruent
with that o f the government and IDA. By training a core group o f individuals who will serve
both as teachers and program implementers, the strategic directions that are newly emerging in
Ethiopian TVET will be given root.
Fit with Other Donor Support. Government's ESDP-I1 program is supported by multiple
bilateral and several multilateral donors, including IDA. Current committed and pledged
resources to the education sector are inthe neighborhood o f USD 125 million over the next three
years. Very strong synergy exists among the donors who have united to support government's
sector development strategy. Over the past five years IDA has been the principal contributor to
the higher education sector through its ESDP credit. Inthe near future, the majority o f donors,
including IDA, will be providing resources for basic and secondary education through budget
support for the Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit. The Governments o fNetherlands and United
Kingdom (VSO) will be providing targeted technical support to the Quality and Relevance
Assurance Agency and the Ethiopian Higher Education Strategy Institute, organizations which
underpin tertiary level reform. GTZ i s the principal technical assistance provider in TVET with
regard to system reform and restructuring. The Chinese and Italians will be providing focused
support to some technical colleges and other bilateral donors operate targeted programs in

                                                - 8 -

support o f specific academic departments o f higher education. In this context, IDA credit for
post-secondary education will be the principal source o f external funding for government's post-
secondary reform program over the next five years.
4. HigherLevelObjectivesto Which the ProjectContributes
Government has placed highpriority on capacity development as a critical means o f achieving
poverty reduction. It has made significant strides in improving primary school enrollments and
has undertaken major sector reforms to achieve universal primary education by the year 2015.
However, in order to accomplish this, it will be necessary to also expand and strengthen
secondary, and university level education so that sufficient graduates are produced to staff lower
level classrooms andmanage schools.
Higher education and TVET play an important conditioning role in poverty reduction. It does
this in four ways.      First, post-secondary education alleviates poverty through the direct
contributions to economic growth generated by its influence on a nation's productivity and
international competitiveness. It achieves this by training a qualified and adaptable labor force,
by assisting the nationto access and generate new knowledge, andby adapting global knowledge
for local use. Inthis way, it helps to determine living standards.

Second, post-secondary education reduces poverty through redistribution and empowerment.
Specifically, it generates empowerment through the building o f social capital and facilitates
redistribution by expanding opportunities for employability, income, and social mobility.

Third, it strengthens the entire education sector. Tertiary institutions train (and re-train) teachers,
school principals and system managers. Their staff play a major role incurriculum development
and evaluation for primary and secondary education.           Their researchers analyze education
performance, identify problems, andprovide policy advice. TVET institutions develop mid-level
vocational skills that are critical to small businesses and semi-technical labor force needs.

Fourth, post-secondary education contributes importantly towards the attainment o f the
Millennium Development Goals. Tertiary level research and technology engender improved
food supply and rural incomes. Tertiary institutions train the professionals - doctors, nurses,
teachers and administrators - who will oversee and implement MDGactivities. Inaddition, they
foster relevant capacities in science, applied technology and community service.                TVET
institutions produce graduates with skills to keep the machinery o f non-agricultural production
operating with dependability and predictable standards o fperformance.
From a policy perspective, IDA has concluded that governments might usefully see their role as
one o f guiding the post-secondary education system in response to global and local changes
(World Bank, 2002). Three fundamental components o f this steering process are: first, shaping
a coherent policy framework to institute proactive, meaningful reforms to take advantage o f the
opportunities presented by the knowledge economy and the ICT revolution; second, providing
an enabling regulatory environment aimed at fostering innovation, stimulating the private
provision o f education, instituting quality assurance mechanisms, financial accountability for
public institutions, and intellectual property rights; and third, offering appropriate financial
incentives to steer institutions towards quality, efficiency, and equity goals.          This project
addresses Ethiopianpost-secondary education through the lens o fthese concerns.



                                                  - 9 -

Over time, the project is expected to benefit Ethiopia by: (a) improving the local and
international qualifications and competitiveness o f its skilled human resources; (b) laying the
foundation for improvements in the productivity o f national research and applied technology
efforts; and (c) generating the skilled human resources needed to successfully implement the
Government's Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy. Inthe long run, only
gains in Ethiopia's international competitiveness, fueled by increased worker productivity, will
generate the economic expansion upon which sustainable poverty reduction efforts can be
mounted.
Getting the policy framework right for skills development i s a high priority for Government.
The recent Higher Education and TVET Proclamations provide an enabling environment for
reform, setting forth a vision and objectives for the education and training systems; the definition
o f stakeholders and their roles and responsibilities; the principles to guide the system; the
relationship o f training with education; the manner in which the system will be governed; the
means for protecting consumers and promoting quality; and the financing strategy and measures
to encourage accountability for performance. The project recommended herein will help bring
this vision to reality.


B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION
1. LendingInstrument
IDA financing for the project will be provided under the terms o f a Specific Investment Loan
(SIL). The size o f the immediate funding requirements for each sub-sector exceed the ceiling
limits for an APL. Given the similarity o f the approaches involving the Innovation Fund
scheme, it was decided to couple university and TVET programs into a single umbrella project
with distinct funding windows.      The reform efforts in TVET and university education are
similar in direction and objective-fiscal  and administrative autonomy, cost-recovery, improved
administrative management capacity to manage the reforms, and increased curricular
relevance-so    that grouping the two sub-sectors may result ingreater cross-fertilization o f ideas
and experiences.
2. ProgramObjectivesandPhases
The proposed project directly supports one o f the Government's primary national development
and sectoral goals as identified in Ethiopia's Poverty Reduction Strategy: the expansion and
strengthening o f human capacity to leadthe transition from an agrarian economy to a service and
production oriented one. The long term objectives o f the project include: (i)     strengthening the
quality and availability o f post-secondary education (Le., university and technical/vocational
education); (ii) providing medium term budget support to ensure budgetary allocations in other
education sub-sectors are protected during a capital intensive transition period for post-secondary
education; and (iii)  stimulating innovation and modernization at the level o f institutions, faculties
and departments that will lead to improved teaching and learning as well as the realization o f
self-defined strategic objectives. Although there are no distinct phases to the project, resource
allocations will be governed by submission and acceptance o f Annual Work Plans and by the
fundingcycles established for the university-orientedDevelopment InnovationFund.The project
period i s four years.



                                               - 10-

3. Project Development Objective and Key Indicators
The development objective o f the project i s to increase the human resource development
capacity o f Ethiopia at the post-secondary education level. The key indicators by which progress
towards this development objective will be measured include:
Withinhigher education:

       a       Increases in student enrollment to the maximum authorized capacity at the
               undergraduate level ineach institution(i.e., 10,000 except at AAU);

       a       Percentage o f age cohort enrolled in undergraduate, graduate, and TVET
               programs by gender;

       a       Post-graduate enrollment levels disaggregated by gender;

       a       Number o f MA and PhD s awarded annually, disaggregated by gender;

       a       Percentage o f entering students finishing programs "on time" disaggregated by
               gender;

       a       Faculty upgraded through short-term and degree training, disaggregated by
               gender;

       a       An estimated 250 comprehensive innovation proposals submitted and completed
               satisfactorily: 150 Level 1; 100 Level 2;

       a       Institution administrators and managers upgraded through training programs and
               apprenticeships;

       a       Benchmark policy triggers completed as scheduled;

       a        System Support Units strengthened with 90 % of the work defined in Annual
               Plans completed withinWork Planperiod.
Within TVET:

       a       Twenty course curricula revised and improved;

       a        Six regional trade testing centers established and functioning;

       a        1,250 institution and department level administrators upgradedthrough short term
               courses and degree programs;

       a       Twenty-five short-term courses / workshops offered;

       a       Trade certification standards established infive technical fields;

       a        Seven tracer studies and labour market assessmentsconducted;

       a       Equipment at TVET teacher training centers upgraded;

       a        150 teachers and experts trained at MA/MSc level; 80% male and 20% female,
                and

       a        100 teachers and experts trained at advanced diploma level ;80 % male and 20 %
               female


                                               - 11-

4. ProjectComponents
The project will have two main components: (1) improving university undergraduate and post-
graduate education; and (2) strengthening TVET institutions, with a focus on course
development and standards and accreditation.
Component I: University Education. USD 35 million. Three sub-components will comprise
the support program for university-level education.
        a. Institutional Development Grants (IDG). USD 16 million. Support for the basic
capital expenses o f eligible institutions will be provided annually at the start o f the academic
year in four equal allocations of USD 4 million each, beginning in 2004. These World Bank
funds will supplement government's block grant allocation to universities that are scheduled to
replace the current budget disbursement procedures in2005. The IDGs will be allocated to each
institution on a proportionate basis in accordance with the Government's new funding formula
for block grants. Bank support will help to offset the temporary gap in revenue caused by an
anticipated bulge in enrollments and the period that will lapse before the graduate tax will begin
to yield revenue from the cost-recovery scheme scheduled to go into effect for the entering class
o f 2004.   Each USD 4 million allocation to the central ministry for immediate onward
disbursement will be authorized upon presentation o f evidence that the major policy r e f o d s
proposed for that year has been implemented.         These triggers are derived from the Higher
Education Proclamation and have been carefully phased to match government's planned
implementation schedule while providing incentives to ensure that the reforms proceed
according to plan. They are presented inAnnex 6.
        b. Higher EducationSystem Support Institutions. USD 4 million. Support will be
 provided to:
               the Quality and Relevance Assurance Agency (QRAA) - USD 0.7 m;

            0  the EthiopianHigher EducationStrategy Institute (EHESI) - USD 1.O m ;
               the National Pedagogical Resource Center (NPRC) and Institutional Pedagogical
               Resource Sub-centers - USD 0.7 m; and
               the central ministry in the form o f resources for some capital expenses, research,
               seminar development, equipment, publications,         and technical assistance -
               USD 1.6 m.
Each year's funding for this sub-component will be triggered by approval o f an Annual Work
Plan (Am) and budget for each unit, together with a review o f the previous year's
accomplishments.      The central ministry and support institutions will provide system wide
technical advice and policy direction to higher education as a whole and to specific universities
on a demand basis. The immediate objectives o f the support institutions are to (i)       facilitate
decentralization o f university management; (ii)improve institutional finance mechanisms;
(iii)increase institutional autonomy and foster the development o f a valid accreditation and
accountability system; and (iv) improve access to and use o f instructional resources. These
support units are critical elements inthe overall higher education reform initiative.
        c. DevelopmentInnovationFund(D1F)- USD $15 million. The DIFi s the centerpiece
o f the Bank's support to university development in Ethiopia. The Fundis a flexible mechanism
designed to stimulate innovation, promote modemizing changes, and reward quality-enhancing

                                                - 12-

effort within universities. Resources will be distributed on the basis o f approved proposals,
received from university faculties, departments, libraries, or other administrative units and
evaluated against criteria that place emphasis on performance improvements in strategically
selected areas of teaching, leaming and management.           Specifically, the DIF i s designed to
encourage and support innovations, inter alia, inthe following areas:

        e       relevance, content and quality o f academic programs;
        e       establishment o f new academic programs that respond to the nation's human
                resource needs instrategic areas o f economic development;
                competence o f academic, technical and administrative staff;
                physical learning environment;
                efficiency o f space utilization;
                management andprevention o f HIV/AIDS on university campuses;
                integration of technology into instruction, research and system administration;
                planning o f change and improving efficiency o f implementation;
                quality o f leadership at boththe institutional anddepartmental levels;
                capacity buildingfor distance education; and
                ability to conduct self-assessments o f academic and fiscal performance.
The Fundwill have three windows through which proposals will be submitted:

        e       Window I(USD 7.5m): for undergraduate program proposals;
        e       Window I1(USD 4.5m):         for post-graduate program proposals; and
        e       Window I11(USD 3.O): for institutional leadership andmanagement proposals.
The DIFproposal development and review process is designed to emphasize innovative activities
that reinforce institution and department level strategic plans. Where suchplans do not yet exist,
or are inneed o f reformulation, proposals can be submitted to assist that process. The quality o f
all proposals will be assessed in terms o f their direct linkages to strategic management and
leaming outcomes. Proposals which emphasize holistic integration o f resource inputs inpursuit
o f performance goals and which hold high promise o f sustainability in achieving strategic
objectives will be accorded highest priority.
The DIF performance will be monitored and evaluated on a continuous basis through several
complementary mechanisms. Within each university, a DIF campus coordinator will act as
disseminator for the overall program and trouble-shooter for the specific sub-projects funded on
each campus.       Formal accountability for sub-project performance will reside with each
university's Academic Vice-president. Withinthe Ministry, dedicated staff will conduct training
inproposalwriting andprocurement at each institution, while periodically making field visits to
spot-check progress. Annual review meetings will bringtogether DIF participants to share their
accomplishments and identify obstacles that may arise in the course o f implementation. These
discussions will inform the preparation o f annual evaluationreports on projectperformance.
Component2: TVET Innovation Program USD4 million  -
This component will expand and deepen the system reform activities currently spear-headed by
the Ministry o f Education. IDA support will focus on developing the capacities to implement the
system changes which are under way.            These capacity development efforts will provide a
foundation for the five pillars o f the TVET transformation:


                                                  - 13 -

        0       Decentralization o f service design and delivery;
        0       Strengthening partnerships among stakeholders, especially between training
                providers and employers;
        0       Development and implementationo f a trades testing and certification system;
        0       Cost-sharing by beneficiaries; and
        0       Market-baseddemand orientation that shapes training.
There i s a critical need to develop a cadre o f officials at each level o f the system (policy,
management, implementation) who have an awareness of the need for system reform, understand
the components o fthe changes underway, andwho possessthe technical skills necessary to carry
out the roles and responsibilities o f new strategies for improving the TVET system.          IDA
resources will complement the efforts o f government to reform the system by buildingcapacity
to implement the reforms through a three-part program:           (1) formal and nonformal skills
development at each level o f the system;       (2) research, monitoring and evaluation that will
provide on-going insight into training and the effectiveness o f reform strategies; and (3) new
program development that will help develop in the country capacity in training high level
manpower that can manage, runmonitor and evaluate the TVET system as well as facilitate the
application of new capacities and approaches to TVET incritical sectors o f the economy inneed
of development and expansion.

Sub-Component One: Professional and Skill Development (US0 3.2 m).                The Ministry has
proposed, and IDA will support, a two-part professional and skill development program to
generate the capacities that will serve as the foundation stones linking the five pillars. The five
year program will consist o f (i)strengthening and expanding long-term in-country degree
training (MA level) and advanced diploma programs in high priority skill areas; and (ii)     short-
term in-country training in the form o f workshops and seminars. Inorder to develop long-term
institutional capacity to sustain the reforms, support will be provided for each sub component in
the form of specialized technical assistance, instructional materials, and goods related to core
instructionalneeds and improvement.

         (i)    Masters Degree and Advanced Diploma Training.

Masters Degree programs will be opened and strengthened at selected universities and TVETs to
develop sustainable capacity in the three component areas. It is anticipated that 250 individuals
will be selected for and will complete Master degree level training within the five years of the
project and 100 will complete advanced diploma programs.               Qualified and experienced
expatriates will be recruited to team teach. They will also assist in developing training curricula
for the identified six training areas noted below. IDA resources will be usedto recruit expatriate
trainers, procure training and trade testing equipment, books, journals, and to establish computer
labs as appropriate. In order to enable students to complete their MA research requirements,
funds will be allocated to support Master's degree candidates for research support upon
presentation o f acceptable research proposals. Candidates for M.A. training will be selected on
the basis o f background, skill relevance, ability, and their planned role in the sector. An overall
plan for establishing the Master Degree locations, curricula, and staffing will be developed by
the central ministry in collaboration with the higher education institutions selected for the
purpose. Placement criteria will be preparedby the ministry and institutions; regions will select



                                                - 14-

candidates for the program based on the criteria. The ministry has proposedthe following degree
areas for support:

         a      TVET programmeasurement andassessment;
         0      TVET programplanning andimplementation;
         a      TVET policy development andtraining management;
         a      Curriculum instruction strategies;
         a      Labor market analysis and apprenticeship program design; and
         a      Subject area specialists.
Priority will also be given to curriculum implementation strategies, defining and operationalizing
occupational standards in the curriculum and classroom,              and specialized curriculum
development.

         (ii) Short-Term Training.
To broaden understanding o f the policy pillars, short-term training (in-country workshops and
seminars) will be conducted for a broad array o f TVET managers and implementers.               The
training will be divided into three broad areas o f focus: TVET policy and strategy, TVET
institutional and instructional management, and instruction skills.      Among the topics to be
coveredwithin these three areas are:
                curriculum development;
                implications o fpolicy reform at the federal, regional and institutional level;
                training relevancy;
                quality and supervision;
                testing and assessment;
                non-formal TVET;
                monitoring and evaluation;
                labor force linkages and apprenticeships; and
                public-private sector partnerships andjoint Councils.
Short-term programs o f varying length (subject to content and preferred delivery strategy) will
be conducted each year.        Presentations delivered by experts will be taped and both the
presentations and instructional materials developed for the training programs will be more
widely disseminated to non-participants following the training sessions.             Approximately
3,500 individuals will directly participate inthe training programs and several thousand teachers
andTVET personnelwill indirectly benefit from distributiono fmaterials.
Sub-component Two:          Monitoring, Evaluation and Research (US0 375,000).              With the
development o f new trade testing standards, certification procedures, apprenticeship programs,
partnerships, revised curricula, etc., there i s a need to measure and validate the effectiveness o f
the investments made. This sub component will complement the systems reform efforts being
led by the ministry. Resources from IDA will secure technical assistance to enable the ministry
to monitor the impact o f reforms and to make adjustments to policies andprograms that mightbe
indicated by the investigations. Through this sub-component the ministry and regional offices
will also be able to undertake studies inparticular occupational areas to define training needs and
to shape curricula with more accuracy and quality, to develop and field test new curricula and
assessment methodologies and to validate testing andcertification procedures.


                                                 - 15-

Sub-component Three: New Program Development (USD 425,000). As Ethiopia moves
towards greater economic diversification, the demand for new skills and the training programs
required to produce them also increases. This sub-component will enable the central ministry,
regional offices and TVET institutions to design and test new instructional programs. IDA
resources will also be used to develop training curricula as necessary for new areas o f post
graduate studies to build the capacity o f TVET personnel at policy and implementation levels,
revise existing middle level training curricula as necessary to incorporate new service standards
and accreditation requirements and to test them to ensure that they are fully compliant with
certification norms and expectations for leaming outcomes.
Activities eligible for funding through a proposal submission and review process would include :

        e       institutional capacity buildingin labor market and training needs assessment and
                subsequent development andprovision o f new courses;
        e       innovative mechanisms o f involving the business community including network
                formation and new cooperative training schemes;
        a       activities to provide self-employment support to graduates and to link the training
                institutions into the local labor networks;
        e       set-up o f incubator centers, training with production schemes inrural set-ups;
        e       tailor-made upgrading training for workers inindustryandthe MSE sector; and
        e       internships o f instructors inlocalbusinesses, and other activities.
Funds will also be made available to improve the management structure and capacities o f
training institutions with a view to increasing market-oriented management approaches and
enhancing institutions' capacities for income generating activities.      Public relations activities
such as open days, as well as development and implementation o f institutional gender and
HIVIAIDS policies may also be eligible for funding. If appropriatelyjustified, financial support
can be used for staff training programs, recruitment o f technical experts and operational
expenses.
An unallocatedbudgetline of USD 1 millionis includedin anticipation of emerging needs
and evolving priorities. These funds can be used to fund new priorities that directly support
project objectives or can be reallocatedto one or more existing sub-components at a later stage in
the project, subject to review and approval by IDA.
5. LessonsLearnedandReflectedinthe ProjectDesign
The Bank's recently updated policy paper on tertiary education, Constructing Knowledge
Societies:    New Challenges for Tertiary Education (2002) offers the following major
recommendations that have been incorporated into this project's design:

        e       Take the local political economy into account and develop appropriate social
                communication activities to buildconsensus around project goals.
        e       Encourage change through the use o f positive incentives rather than bymandatory
                edicts.
Project design also incorporates lessons learned from a previous Bank-financed tertiary
education project in Ghana, Bank higher education experience elsewhere in Africa (Congo,
Kenya, Mauritius, and Nigeria), and Bank higher education projects in Latin America
(particularly Argentina, Chile andVenezuela):


                                                  - 16-

a  Consultation with institutions and stakeholders is essential for effective project
   design and implementation. This i s a main lesson from the Bank's previous
   tertiary education project in Ghana. This message is reinforced by the Congo
   Higher Education Rationalization Project and by the Kenya Universities
   Investment Project, which note that the full engagement o f Vice-Chancellors i s an
   important factor for project implementation and policy reform. Consequently,
   regular consultation with tertiary system leaders has been a major activity
   throughout project preparation.
a  Incentives generate more signijkant and lasting reforms than do conditionalities.
   This is the documented experience o f the Fund for University Quality
   Improvement in Argentina, and o f the Millennium Science Project in Chile.
   Conditionalities under Bank-financed higher education projects during the 1990s
   in Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria and Senegal had a very poor record of success. As a
   result, this project will employ a competitively accessed funding mechanism,
   modeled after similar approaches developed in Bank-financed higher education
   projects for Argentina, Chile, Jordan, Mozambique, Romania, and Sri Lanka, in
   an incentive-led process o f innovation and institutional reform.
a  Universities are generally stronger, better endowed and more capable than other
   public sector institutions. Their existing capacities for project implementation,
   procurement, and financial administration should be recognized and utilized in
   project design.    The Kenya Universities Investment Project reinforces this
   approach in concluding that "Project design should provide for an appropriate
   balance between decentralization of responsibilities to universities, and central
   coordination.  "   To this end, much o f project procurement and financial
   management will rely on existing structures for these purposes within the tertiary
   institutions.
0  Lessonsfrom social investmentfunds (on which DIF is patterned) highlight: (i)
   their potential to build multilevel partnerships and establish strong coalitions in
   support o f reform; (ii) importance o f clearly defining the responsibilities o fthe
                          the
   various partners; (iii) the fundamental requirement o f transparent management
   and isolation from partisan politics; (iv) the potential to buildlocal capacities and
   distribute benefits widely ay associating training and technical assistance with the
   process o f formulating small-scale projects.
a  Project objectives need to be scaled to take account o f the local implementation
   capacity, and project complexity should only increase once implementation
   capacity has increased. This i s the lesson generated by the Mauritius Higher and
   Technical Education Project. It is also underscored in the Romania Reform o f
   Higher Education and Research Project, which notes a tendency to underestimate
   procurement and disbursement issues associated with competitive fund
   approaches.
a  Tertiary institutions are becoming large scale complex organizations with an
   increased market orientation that require greater attention than before to
   managerial training at all levels. Management inefficiencies associated with the
   absence of efficiency monitoring, together with the challenges o f the rapidly
   rising size and complexity within institutions, urge continuous project attention to



                                   - 17-

                management skills development. This message is transmitted by evaluations of
                higher education projectsinCongo, Ghana, Kenya, andNigeria.
         e      Inaddition to the lessons above, experience insub-Saharan Africa on the special
                characteristics o f TVET institutions indicate that training works best when it is
                competitive, flexible in adjusting to changing output requirements, responsive to
                changing demands o f the market place and effective in developing important
                skills ina timely, effective fashion.
6. AlternativesConsideredandReasonsfor Rejection
The Development Innovation Fundapproach was selected as the central funding vehicle for the
university component because it reinforces government's desire to decentralize management and
accountability o f higher education institutions to the campuses. The DIF structure places the
challenge for innovation, and the rewards for initiative, squarely inthe hands o f the beneficiaries.
The mechanism, however, puts important review and veto functions in the hands o f technical
specialists and parties interested in university development from both within and without the
ministry itself. The system support institutions are challenged to define their work programs
annually, and are provided with resources commensurate with their commitments and ability to
carry them out.      Their success is instrumental to establishing an independent review and
accreditation system andto long-term planning for the tertiary sector.
TVET is at anearlier stage inthe reform process than is higher education. As the basic elements
o f system reform are being put in place by government with the support o f GTZ, there i s a
pressingneed to strengthen instructional capacity, infuse the curricula with new approaches to
TVET that are based on the lessons learned over the last two decades in the region, and to
establish and/or improve standards for training and trade certification. This calls for a much
more focused and directed investmentthan that required inhigher education.
A project approach which emphasized higher levels o f foreign training was rejectedbecause o f
the history o f "brain drain" inEthiopia and the highcost that would be disproportionately borne
by government.       Large capital investments were deemed both unnecessary and unwise: a
USD$125 million capital expansion program is in its final stage for tertiary education; large
scale investment in TVET may follow the improvements in curricula and standards and
certification procedures that will be the focus o f investments in the next several years. Quality
has long suffered in Ethiopian universities and department faculty are most acutely aware o f
deficiencies and needs. TVET faculty require new perspectives on how to achieve sub sector
objectives. External facilitation and curricular design and mentoring will help to shine new light
on paths to technical and vocational development.             For both project components, the
implementation mechanisms selected offer the maximum amount o f faculty level input and
benefit. The proposal review process, however, also provides an important level o f external
control of the process and check on the integrity o f the review and decision making sequence.


C. IMPLEMENTATION
1. PartnershipArrangements
The Government of Netherlands is providing short-term technical support to EHESI and QR4A
through contracts to Dutchuniversity consulting firms and NUFFIC. The British VSO program
i s also providing technical assistance to EHESI and QRAA where two long-term advisors are


                                                - 18-

already in place, and through appointment o f individual volunteers to each o f six universities,
where they serve primarily as academic advisors in particular disciplines.    Support to higher
education also comes form several other bilateral sources including N O W , CIDA,
SIDMSAREC and the Government o fBelgium. At present, there i s no large scale donor support
to higher education beyond what has been provided by IDA'SEducation Sector Development
Project (ESDP) which ended in June 2004. The planned IDA investment will be guided by the
technical support being provided to the EHESIand QRAA,but will not be dependent upon it for
the success o f the project.
Under the German TVET Sector Program Support, the Kreditanstalt fuer WiederauJbau (KfW)
has earmarked funds for program restructuring under Component Three o f its five-year
Investment Program to Support TVET inEthiopia. Funds are earmarked for capacity buildingo f
private and non-governmental/non-profit oriented training institutions.       Funds under this
component are meant to finance infrastructure development (buildings, training equipment,
computers and office equipment, vehicles) andtext books. Other donors providing some support
to the sub-sector include the Chinese andBelgians.
2. InstitutionalandImplementationArrangements
Supervision missions for the overall project are scheduled to be held in May and November o f
each year. At least two weeks prior to the May mission, a draft Annual Work Plan (AWP) for
the relevant components o f the project will be submitted to IDA for review and discussion during
the mission. Responsibilities for each project component and the implementation arrangements
are outlined ingeneral terms below and indetail inthe DIF Operations Manual (see Annex 15).

3. UniversityComponent.
(see Annex 4 and Annex 15 - DIF Operations Manual)
Institutional Development Grants will be administered by the central Ministry o f Education
through the office o f the Vice Minister for Higher Education. Assembling the documentation
necessary to establish that benchmarks have been satisfactorily met for release o f the annual
USD 4 million allocation will be the responsibility o f the Vice Minster's office and shall be
presented in the Annual Work Plans (summary plus one from each university) submitted
annually to IDA in May. Disbursement o f the grants among the institutions will be done in
accordance with the Ministry's proposed new block grant formula for allocating resources to
universities. As part o f the Annual Work Plan, each university / recipient institution will be
required to submit a one page capital expenditure plan/ spreadsheet for how the grant will be
usedwithin their intuition. Threshold limits for procurement as defined inAnnex 8 will apply to
all institutions and Statements o f Expenditures (SOEs) will be required o f each institution in
accounting for the use o f their grant allocation. SOEs will be processed by the central ministry
according to procedures already established inthe implementation o f ESDP. Grants will not be
released to individual universities until the central ministry and IDA have provided written
agreement with the intuition's capital expenditure proposal. Unspent funds can be carried over
from one FY to another by an institution, as long as they are used for purposes approved and are
fully accounted.
IDA funds for System Support Units and the Ministry of Education. Each o f the three support
institutions and the Ministrywill submit detailed Operational Plans for the coming fiscal years as



                                                - 19-

part o f the overall Annual Work Plan (AWP) submitted to the Bank as part o f the May
supervisionmission. The Planfor each unit should include, at minimum:

        e      A review ofthe previousyear's activities withthe previous A W as abenchmark;
        e      A report for the pervious year's budget:         requested, allocated, expended,
                anticipatedexpenditure through the end o f the current FY, by line item;
        e      Discussiono f accomplishments and shortcomings duringthe current FY;
        e      Description o f planned activities and strategy for overcoming implementation
               problems encountered duringthe current FY;
        e       Indicators o f progress to be employed in assessing activities planned for the
                coming FY; and
        e       detailed Annual budget for the upcoming FY.
SOEs will be processed for all expenditures for this subcomponent as described Annex 7.
The Development Innovation Fund (DIT`) will be administered at two different institutional
levels, depending upon the size o f the grant proposal. (See the graphical presentation o f the
organizational structure and details o f implementationinAnnex 15, DIF Operations Manual).
A general call for proposals will be initiatedbythe central ministry at least semi-annually.
The three key mechanisms that constitute the management o fthe DIF activities are: (i)   the office
o f the Vice Minister for Higher Education, (ii) the Planning andProgrammingDepartment (PPD)
within the Ministry o f Education, and (iii) university Academic Vice-presidents and the DIF
                                             the
Campus Coordinators (DCC) who work under them.
The PPD operates as an organizational unit within the MoE. Under the project, one o f its
principal duties is to encourage innovation and modernization o f the Ethiopian higher education
system. Its main tool for achieving this goal is the Development Innovation Fund (DIF). The
primary project functions o f PPD are to make certain that public calls for proposals and proposal
selection guidelines are consistent with prevailing government policy priorities for higher
education, and to ensure the smooth submission, judicious review, efficient approval and timely
disbursement o f funds for approvedDIFproposals.
Level IProposals (<USD 20,000) will be submitted to a review process at the institution level,
with final authority for approval resting with each institution's respective Academic Vice
President. Each University will either create or use an existing Proposal Review Committee
(PRC) to evaluate proposals and recommendcourses o f action to the Academic Vice President.
Level I1 Proposals ( N S D 20,000 and < USD 150,000) will be reviewed initially by the
Proposal Review Committee at the institutional level to ensure that the proposal is integrally
related with the university's strategic development plan and priorities. Ifendorsed by the PRC
and Academic Vice President o f the institution, the proposal will be forwarded to PPD at the
national level for review by area specialty panels.
4. TVET Component
The TVET Innovation Program will be managed by the TVET Office within the Ministry o f
Education. The Office will be responsible for the day-to-day management o f the Fund, including
hiringof consultants, coordination o f their inputs, coordination and administration of seminars
and workshops, and management o f proposals for research and development activities that may
be developed at the central ministry or institutional level.

                                                - 20 -

An Annual Work Plan (AWP) for the use o fIDA resources will be developedbythe office o fthe
Vice Minister responsible for TVET and will be submitted to IDA at least two weeks inadvance
of the annual May supervision mission. The content o f the AWP should address the same points
recorded above inthe discussion o fthe System Support Units' AWPs.
5. Monitoringand Evaluationof Outcomes/Results
The data that will be used to measure the project outcomes and results indicators will largely
come from already existing monitoring sources within the federal ministry and each university's
central administrative unit and from TVET teacher training institutions. Enrollment information
and resource allocations from the federal government to post-secondary institutions are a matter
o f public record and are reported inthe annual Educational Statistical Summary inApril of each
year. The reforms authorized by the Higher Education Proclamation will require the collection
o f departmental line item cost data and monitoring o f expenditures by sub-administrative units
and faculties. Thus, project monitoring will reflect data that will be collected as a matter o f
course by department and institutional authorities inthe near future.
The benchmarks governing the release of IDG funds are simple "yesho" answers to transparent
evidence o f implementation o f several basic policy reformprocesses inthe first two years o f the
project. In subsequent years, evidence of the existence o f Strategic Plans, accreditation status
and EMIS systems can be checked by site visits and review o f public documents. Evidence o f
satisfactory completion o f Performance Agreements and Work Plans will be provided in annual
Reports to be produced by the various project beneficiaries and through SOEs and related
financial documents which give testimony to progress. Quarterly financial reports and semi-
annual supervision missions will provide additional evaluation opportunities to assess outcomes.
The project design provides for independent evaluation o f the quality o f outcomes and o f the
legitimacy o f the proposal review and funding process for both TVET institutions and
universities.   Semi-independent proposal review committees consisting o f academics, non-
academics, and international experts will provide a variety o f perspectives and fresh insight into
development processes that may enhance both the probability o f success and the quality o f
outcomes. Specific indicators and targets are presented inAnnex 3.
6. Sustainability
IDG support to the government's block grant allocations to universities is structured to help
offset the increased financial burden o f rapid enrollment expansion in the short term. In five
years the cost-sharing program should provide returns to the government that will gradually
replace the temporary fiscal support provided by IDA. The Development Innovation Fundgrants
are intended to spur innovation and change in the system, not to provide long-term financial
underwriting o f recurrent costs.     Once the reforms and innovative practices have been
implemented they are expected to be self-sustaining. Other activities which may capitalize on
the new financial freedoms granted post-secondary institutions should result in income
generation that will provide new and additional resources to the institutions that choose to be
market oriented. Since the higher education sub-sector i s nearing the end o f a period o f major
capital expansion, the project will emphasize policy, accountability and quality-related themes.
Government i s committed to the long-term reform o f higher education as evidenced by their own
resource commitments and expansion efforts that are already completed.                Preliminary
implementation o f the cost-sharing scheme indicates that the necessity o f passing some o f the
cost-burden on to students has been accepted.

                                               - 21 -

Because the DIF i s demand-driven by university faculty who themselves will directly benefit
from the DIF and because both levels o f the Fund are linked directly to department and
university strategic plans, a built in safeguard ensures the proposals address defined institutional
priorities. The majority o f proposals are expected to address problems of instructional and
management quality and effectiveness. Capital expenditures are linked to quality objectives but
as means to these ends, not as stand alone input activities which need funding. Thus, for
example, investment in curriculum reform, faculty training, implementation o f ICT- assisted
instruction, andrevision o f financial management systems are expected to have long-term impact
with quality andefficiency results that will transcend the periodo fthis project.
The TVET investments will strengthen both the quality and relevance o f TVET training and
future instruction. Establishing certification and accreditation standards is an expensive, time-
consuming process, but once those standards are in place the cost o f student and program
assessment is relatively minimal and can be bome by the individuals andprograms aspiring to be
certified, as they are inmost countries.
7. CriticalRisks andPossibleControversialAspects
Strong Government support and political leadership underscore the country's commitments to
the education sector, specifically its efforts to upgrade higher education, to achieve education for
all (EFA), to introduce secondary school ICT programs, and to decentralize educationalplanning
and management. The scope and aspiration o f these concurrent efforts will severely test public
capacities for multiple project execution in the education sector, creating a risk o f
implementation delays.      In particular, some of the policy benchmarks for the institutional
development grants, although announced in the Higher Education Proclamation, will need
substantial preparatory work if they are to become operational within the timetable foreseen
under the project. Also, the Development Innovation Fund i s an unfamiliar mechanism in
Ethiopia, although it has proved effective inBank projects undertaken inSouth America, Eastem
Europe, andAsia. It will therefore require a considerable commitment o f training and leadership
resources to ensure that this approach and its procedures are well understoodwithin the various
institutions, and to manage effectively the Fund's cooperative relations with the various tertiary
institutions. Furthermore, institutional weaknesses inprocurement capacity have been identified
(see Annex 8) that will require timely staffing and training inputs ifthey are not to hinderproject
performance    .
8. Loadcredit ConditionsandCovenants
The policy/action conditions for release o f annual Institutional Development Grant funds have
been defined in Annex 6. In addition, several other critical actions have been identified as
conditions for effectiveness, or within a short period thereafter. These are summarized in the
following table.




                                                 - 22 -

                 Action to be taken             Expected completion date       Responsible
                                                                               Body

          Preparationof a standardreporting
          formats and chart of accounts on
          recordingandreportingofthe                 Beforeeffectiveness         Borrower

          project financial transactions.

          Organize a launch workshop for
          staff at all levels to familiarize        Within two months of         Borrower
          them with the flow o f funds,                 effectiveness
          recording andreporting
          Recruitment of two additional
          accountants at the Finance Unitof
          the PPD.                                   Before effectiveness        Borrower

          Openanddepositthe initial amount
          of Government counterpart                  Before effectiveness         Borrower

          contributionina project account


          Submit overdue ESDPaudits                  Before effectiveness         Borrower

The financial management review conducted during appraisal indicated a significant weakness in
the central ministry's capacity to record and report project-related activities and expenditures.
IDA will therefore require, as a condition for effectiveness, that a minimum o f two additional
accountants be added to PPD staff. Annual Work Plans approvedby IDA will be required for all
SSUs and the central ministry activities, including the TVET sub-component, prior to release o f
funds for any given FY.
The DIF will operate according to the procedures elaborated in the DIF Operations Manual.
University level Strategic Plans must exist, at least in draft form, by the beginning o f year 2 o f
the project inorder for that university to be eligible to submit proposals for DIF funding.
All other project sub-components will be governed by approval o f the Annual Work Plans for
eachrelevant system unit andby the submissiono f SOEs as described inAnnexes 7 and 15.


D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1. Economic and FinancialAnalyses
Unit Expenditures. Annual recurrent expenditures per university student are roughly 7,457 Birr
(USD 860) when government-provided food, lodging and health care are included, and 5,801
Birr (USD 671) when student welfare subsidies are excluded. This latter level of educational
investment is very low in comparison to Sub-Saharan Africa (USD 1,500) and to neighboring




                                                 - 23 -

countries such as Kenya (USD l,800), Tanzania (USD 3,236) and Uganda (USD 800).3 Unit
expenditures for TVET institutions however, are high relative to the cost o f general secondary
education.    Although the database on TVET costs is very weak, the long-term financial
sustainability o f government's proposed expansions is a cause for concern.
Financing. Government provides virtually all o f the financing used to run the public tertiary
system. This includes the provision o f free non-academic services to regular students comprising
meals, lodging and healthcare. Fulltime students (32% o f all students) pay no significant tuition
fees, although part-time and private students (the majority o f the total enrolled) do so. This
custom is increasingly at odds with prevailing practice in other African countries, especially in
the Anglophone sphere, where various forms o f student cost-sharing are emerging.              The
government has recognized this by indicating in the new Higher Education Proclamation that
cost-sharing will be a key component for the future financing o f tertiary education development.
University officials recognize that not only i s the provision o f food and housing a huge burden
on their budget (15% of all recurrent expenses), but it also raises a serious social equity issue
since 99% o f the population (of generally poorer youth) are excluded from this welfare subsidy.
Accordingly, government introduced a university graduate tax inSeptember 2003 designed to re-
coup gradually the cost o f meals and lodging, together with a small portion o f tuition costs. The
proportion o f costs to be recovered through this mechanism will be adjusted after three years in
light o f experience gained. Considering the potential political fallout from a more aggressive
cost-recovery scheme, the design team feels the financing approach adopted i s a prudent
transition to a more comprehensive and direct cost-sharing strategy that may be implemented
over time.
TVET enrollments are anticipatedto rise from 25% o f Grade 10completers in2001/02 to 40% in
the next ten years. Inlight o f the drive also to achieve universal primary enrolment during this
same period, it would seem doubtful that the budget can support expansion at this level and
higher cost basis. The ministry is currently framing a new financing system for TVET based on
future cost-sharing by students and increased cost-effectiveness o f training programs.         The
proposed IDA financing will help both the quality and efficiency o f instructional delivery.
Funds will also be available for evaluation, monitoring and research to help establish new
financing formulae and enhance the role o fthe private sector inservice delivery.
A fuller analysis ofthe economic aspects ofthe project isprovidedinAnnex 9.
2. Technical
Preparation o f mid- to high-level skilled personnel i s an integral part o f Ethiopia's medium to
long-term development strategy.          Parliamentary approved Proclamations have established
frameworks for reform and improvement o f both the higher education and TVET sectors. From
a technical perspective, the creative challenge i s to design and implement programs that foster
better management o f the systems, improved quality o f instructional content and delivery, and
which will legitimize and foster institutional autonomy and accountability. Because the chief
project components emphasize reforms that will be designed by faculty and administrative units
within the institutions that are the beneficiaries o f the funds, and because the review process




  Taken from various World Bank project documents.


                                                  - 24 -

ensures that approved proposals are in direct support o f the institutions and sector's strategic
objectives, the probability o f funding technically and strategically appropriate activities i s high.
The year long review o f higher education conducted by an IDA team, whose key members also
designed this project, supports the diagnosis o f problems facing higher education and endorses
the general technical steps that have been taken or will be put in place to support the sector
reform^.^ Key to the success o f the sub-sector reforms is the role that      will be played by the
system support units. Their performance will be a function o f the quality o f leadership each unit
has, and o f the quality o f short and long-term staff that are recruited to provide guidance on
further shaping and implementing the key reforms. IDA resources - both technical and fiscal -
in combination with consultant support from other donors, will be available to the central
ministryto ensure adequatetechnical assistance.
The most severe risk to the project is the potential for giving insufficient management attention
to DIF by government and university leaders. Establishing the DIF as a credible, objective
mechanism for rewarding initiative will require that proposals be reviewed quickly, fairly and
with professionalism. The procedures used in implementing DIF are almost as important for
establishing a climate o f institutional independence andprofessionalism as the funds themselves.
Reviews by technical experts, both within and outside the recipient institutions, will not only
help to ensure that the review processes are conducted in accordance with agreed criteria, but
also help to facilitate inter-university and cross-sector understanding o f technical issues and
creative approaches to addressing them. This i s an important step in developing the skills and
confidence to self-critique and to build on the experiences o f others.      At the central ministry
level, planning is an activity highly centralized in the office o f the Vice Minister for Higher
Education. There i s substantial risk that a change in the incumbent, given the limited circle o f
discussions within the central ministry, might lead to a reduction in both understanding o f and
support for the project. Immediate and wide-spread information dissemination efforts by the
ministrywould helpto offset this risk.
3. Fiduciary
The government system o f accounting will be used for flow o f funds, recording and reporting.
The major risks for project implementation are the highnumber o f institutional actors involved
inthe implementation andthe low capacity at all levels. Inorder to mitigate these risks, the PPD
will recruit additional staff to strengthen its existing capacity and extensive training will be
provided by M o E to all finance staff.
The development o f standardized financial reporting formats and chart o f accounts for recording
and reporting financial transactions under the project i s a crucial step in the implementation o f
the project. The Finance Unit at the PPD will take the responsibility in developing the required
formats and chart o f accounts and the provision o f the required regular training within the first
three months following project effectiveness.
The overall conclusion from the financial management assessment i s that the existing
government system could be used for the implementation o f the Project provided additional staff




4Higher EducationDevelopmentfor Ethiopia: Pursuing the Vision, 2004.


                                                - 25 -

are recruited at the PPD and the required training i s providedby M o E on recording and reporting
of the financial transactions o f the Project to all staff o f recipient institutions.
The country's discipline in executing budget and compliance with the existing government
regulations is the major strength inimplementing this project.
Some o f the staff inthe Finance Unit at the PlanningandProgramming Department (PPD) o f the
M o E have many years o f experience in donor-financed project, including IDA. Some o f the
universities also have experience in implementing donor-financed projects.              Since all the
universities are following the government system o f accounting and the government accounting
system requires periodic reporting and regular checks by the Auditor General and MoFED, the
control environment i s adequate.
The number o f staff and their quality at the Finance Unit o f PPD and the universities i s not yet
adequate considering the volume o f activities to be undertaken by the respective
departments/units.    For example, the Finance Unit at the PPD is currently handling various
donor-financed projects, which require various types o f reporting and auditing arrangements. In
this regard, inaddition to hiringnew staff into the Finance Departments of the Universities and
Finance Unit the PPD, adequate training is essential for staff to be engaged in this project.
Duringthe appraisal mission, the team was informed by the universities that obtaining qualified
accountants with the current salary scale is one o f the problems in attracting qualified
accountants. Currently, most o f the universities are designing new organizational structures,
which will help them attract qualified staff. This problem may be resolved when the re-designs
o f these organizational structures o f the universities are approved by the respective boards o f the
universities.
4. Social
Gender. In2001/2002, women accounted for 16% o f degree enrollments inregular and evening
programs of public institutions, but 32% o f diploma enrollments in these same programs.
Notably, 53% o f private tertiary students are female. This i s likely due to the fact that most
private institutions are located in Addis Ababa where female students can more easily live at
home, thereby allaying the possible protectionist concerns o f parents. However, only 7% o f
graduate students are women. More worrisome is the fact that just 7% o f academic staff in
public tertiary institutions are women, thus depriving the tertiary education system o f a fully
proportionate share o f the country's best female intellects, and its women students o f sufficient
role models for mentoring and guidance. Incomparison, the Sub-Saharan average for women's
participation in degree programs is roughly 35% and the proportion o f female academic staff i s
about 20%.
Overall enrollment data for TVET demonstrate a relative gender balance with 47% o f enrolment
female. Girls are over-represented inbusiness trades and more typical female occupations such
as textile andhospitality trades. They are under-represented inthe traditional technical trades.
RegionalAccess. Inthe effort to nurture a greater sense o fnational identity, the government has
adopted a policy o f admitting a representative mix o f students from the country's eleven
administrative regions on each university campus. Because this policy often requires students to
study at a site some distance from their home, the government has decided to maintain its policy
o f providing food and lodging to regular residential students, while gradually recovering this cost
by means o f a graduate tax. Although system-wide data are not available on the effects o f


                                                  - 26 -

government efforts to promote regional access to higher education, intake data for the country's
largest university (AAU) for the 2002/2003 academic year indicate rather wide variation in
access rates by region. However, the proportion o f entrants by region i s approximately equal to
the proportional distribution o f Grade 12 students across regions, with the exception o f those
from SNNPR. It is probable, therefore, that these disparities reflect differences in population
size, access to education, and quality o f education among the different regions rather than any
gross failing o f the current higher education access policies.
Formal TVET programs are offered in all regions, but the four largest regions (Amhara,
Oromiya, Tigrai and SNNPR) and Addis Ababa account for 96 % o f all TVET places. This
reflects the relatively smaller share o f the overall secondary school enrollment evidenced inthe
lesser populated areas. Proportional to secondary school enrollments, there is little regional
disparity. There is no systematic enumeration o f private TVET providers. Therefore, their
dispersion throughout the country and their relative costs can not be accurately estimated. It is
clear that non-fonnal and non-governmental training mechanisms will become increasingly
important if the TVET targets are to be met. In order to meet the 15% enrollment increase
expected by 2015, capital expenditure will need to increase to about 300 million Birr annually,
60% o f which is for equipment and fwniture, 20% for new schools and 22% for teacher training.
The IDA credit will help to offset government's burden o f providing additional instructional
materials andteacher training, andwill help to sharpen the focus o f he curriculum and strengthen
linkages to labor force needs.
5. Environment
This project is classified as Category C for purposes o f environmental assessment. No
environmental disruption will be involved in this Project since it does not support any new
construction. There is no asbestos inthe existing buildings to be disturbed even in the event of
surface level modifications to accommodate, for example, new computer wiring. To ensure that
no environmental problems arise, all aspects o f project implementation will be carefully
monitored through regular supervision missions. Project activities will have no negative impact
on the poor, indigenous peoples, or environmental changes since activities will be restricted
solely to existing sites owned and currently occupied by the universities and TVET training
institutions.   All activities will be monitored to ensure conformity to existing standards
protecting personalhealth and safety from environmental risks.
6. Safeguard Policies
No activities requiring safeguard policies are included in this project. The project will not
involve any involuntary resettlement, nor have an impact on indigenous peoples or sensitive
natural environmental areas. None o f the intended sites contain any squatters, relocated peoples
or indigenous peoples' settlements. These facts were determined in consultation with the Vice
Minister o f Higher Education and the Presidents o f the universities and training institutions to be
included in the project. Consequently no specific safeguard studies were conducted for the
project as they were deemed unnecessary.           In fact, the project activities, supporting the
development o f regional post-secondary education institutions, will have positive benefits to
regionally disadvantaged and indigenous groups by creating both educational and employment
opportunities inpreviously underserved outlying areas.




                                                - 27 -

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                   ~~                     Yes                  No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                                  [x   1
  NaturalHabitats (OP/BP 4.04)
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)
  CulturalProperty (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)
  InvoluntaryResettlement(OP/BP 4.12)
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4-20,being revised as OP 4.10)
  Forests(OP/BP 4.36)
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)

Policy Exceptions and Readiness
a)    This project does not require any exceptions from Bank policies and none will be sought
from either the Bank managementor the Board.
b) Criteria for readiness for implementation.                  The central ministry and higher education
institutions are ready to implement the project and have taken the following actions in
anticipation of effectiveness:

         0       The central ministry has drafted the Year 1 Annual Work Plans and 18 month
                 procurement plans for each o f the System Support Units (SSU) and the central
                 ministryitself;
         0       Directors of eacho fthe SSUs have been appointed;
         0       The IDA a team has briefed all university Presidents, senior administrators and
                  faculty onthe DIFthrough visits to each campus; and
         0       The central ministry has drafted an Year 1Annual Work Plan and an 18 month
                 procurement planfor TVET..
A conditionfor overall project effectiveness is the appointment of two accountantsto the central
ministry of education (PPD). Funds will not be allocated to the System Support Units or the
TVET component untilYear One AnnualWork Planshavebeenreviewed and approvedbyIDA.




 By supporting the proposedproject,the Bank does not intend to prejudicethe final determination ofthe parties' claims on the
disputedareas.


                                                        - 28 -

                    Annex 1: CountryandSector or ProgramBackground

Since the year 2000, public investment in education has risen as a share o f GDP from 3.2% to
4.5%. This level o f financial effort is higher than the 3.9% registered for Sub-Saharan Africa as
a whole. Education expenditure has also increased as a proportion o f the overall government
budget from 9.5% to 16.8%. This still falls below the general range o f 20% to 25% for most
developing countries, suggesting that scope remains for a further increase in the government's
educationfinancing effort. At the same time, the share o f the educationbudget devotedto higher
education has risen from 14.9% to 23% over the period o f ESDP I1in response to the recent
rapid expansion o f this sub-sector. This is slightly higher than the 15% to 20% range used as a
Bank guideline, but not unreasonable as a temporary measure in light o f the significant tertiary
capital expansion program currently underway.
Annual recurrent expenditures per university student are roughly 7,457 Birr (USD 860) when
government-provided food, lodging and health care are included, and 5,801 Birr (USD 671)
when student welfare subsidies are excluded. This latter level o f educational investment is very
low incomparison to Sub-Saharan Africa (USD 1,500) and to neighbor countries such as Kenya
(USD 1,800), Tanzania (USD 3,236) and Uganda (USD 800).
Government provides virtually all o f the financing used to run the public tertiary system. Full
time students pay no significant tuition fees, although part-time and private students do so. This
custom is increasingly at odds with prevailing practice in other African countries, especially in
the Anglophone sphere, where various forms o f student cost-sharing are emerging.               The
government has recognized this by indicating in the new Higher Education Proclamation that
cost-sharing will be a key component for the future financing o f tertiary education development.
Accordingly, government introduced a university graduate tax inSeptember 2003 designed to re-
coup gradually the cost o fmeals andlodging, together with a small portiono ftuition costs.
This cost-sharing initiative is an important precedent inlight o f projectedbudgetary shortfalls for
the education sector.     Research conducted for the Bank's Public Expenditure Review and
Country Status Report (2003) suggests that the education sector as a whole may be facing a
significant financing gap if MDG and ESDP-I1 goals are to be achieved as planned. Annual
expenditure plans for the education sector (including higher education) total roughly
5 billion Birr per year, compared with current spending (2002/2003) o f about 3.5 billion Birr.
Inother words, the projectedfunding gap is a sizeable 40%.
This shortfall has several important implications inlight o f national goals for the sector. First, it
i s unlikely that all growth aspirations within the education sector can be met at current
expenditure levels, and difficult choices will have to be made between competing needs.
Second, more aggressive efforts are required to find ways o f reducing or sharing costs,
particularly within higher education.      Third, substantially more foreign assistance may be
necessary to meet sector goals, even partially. Lastly, even with other revenue, the education
sector's share o f the federal budget will likely need to be increased, creating the associated
challenge o fhow to reduce spending elsewhere inthe budget.
Within these parameters, any national tertiary system would be hard pressed to expand
enrolments rapidly while maintaining levels o f educational quality. Ethiopia faces a double
challenge inthat it seeks to accomplish this while also introducing major reforms ininstitutional

                                                - 29 -

governance, management and curriculum.         If the bold vision contained in the new Higher
Education Proclamation is to have any chance o f success, the solution to this double challenge
will have to be found inthe financing strategy that underpins and supports these reforms. This
financing strategy i s currently comprised o f (i)expanded private provision; (ii)  increased cost-
sharing; (iii) introduction o f a funding formula; (iv) improved efficiency o f resource use; and
(v) increased donor contributions.
Ethiopia's tertiary level gross enrollment ratio (GER) o f 0.8% in2000 places it among the lowest
ranking countries o f the world, as does its 62 tertiary students per 100,000 inhabitants. The
current tertiary level GER for Sub-Saharan Africa is 4% with a regional average o f 339 students
per 100,000 persons. As a result, professional and technical capacities o f all types are extremely
limitedinEthiopia, and development prospects have been stunted by these capacity shortages.
Women's access to higher education has been severely limited. In2002/2003, women accounted
for only 17% o f degree enrollments in regular and evening programs o f public institutions.
Notably, just 7% o f graduate students are women. More worrisome i s the fact that barely 7% o f
academic staff in public tertiary institutions are women, thus depriving the tertiary education
system o f a fully proportionate share o f the country's best female intellects, and its women
students o f sufficient role models for mentoring and guidance. Incomparison, the Sub-Saharan
average for women's participation in degree programs is roughly 35% and the proportion o f
women academic staff is about 20%.
Poverty alleviation in Ethiopia requires sustained economic growth, good governance, and
political stability in order to be effective. Growth derives from skilled human resources and
national productivity increases leading to greater country competitiveness in the regional and
global economy. Productivity gains are generated by national innovation systems inwhich post-
secondary education institutions play a fundamental role. These institutions determine levels
o f capability within the country's pool o f higher level managerial, scientific and technical
expertise; the effectiveness with which global knowledge is accessed and applied inthe solution
of local development problems; andthe standards o f quality within lower levels o f education and
worker productivity. The quality o f secondary school teachers is a direct reflection o f the quality
o f training they receive in universities. Therefore, if poverty is to be reduced, Ethiopia's post-
secondary institutions will have to improve their performance and expand their service delivery.
Specifically, they must operate more effectively under severe resource constraints and orient
themselves to demands o f the knowledge economy and to the growing emphasis on national
capacity development. Clearly, post-secondary education development will not by itself lead to
poverty reduction. But in combination with strategic development o f the economy and labor
force, it can contribute to job creation and higher productivity, thereby expand resources and
opportunities for the poor.




                                                - 30 -

             Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financedby the Bank
                          and/or other Agencies IDA Financed
 I                       I                                 I
         Sector                        Project                  PSR Ratings
                                                                          DO

  Education               Education Sector Development
                          Project (Cr. No. 30770)            S          S

  Law and Public          Public Sector Capacity Building
  Administration          Program (Cr. No. 31400)            NA        NA
  Poverty Reduction       Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
  EM                      (Cr. No. H0730)                    NA        NA
  Healthand social        HealthSector Development
  Services                Program (Cr. No. 31400)            S          S

  Law andPublic           Capacity BuildingDecentralized
  Administration          Service Delivery (Cr. No. 36980)   U          S
  Informationand          ET Global Distance Learning
  Communication           (Cr. No. 35010)                    U          U
  Law and Public          Agricultural Researchand
  Administration          TrainingProject (Cr. No. 30920)    S          S




                 Other Development Agency Financed Programs

      Sector                                    Project

  Education         TVET Program supportedby GTZ, KfW

  Education         DFIDNSO program o f support to central ministry and
                    universities

  Education         NEDA support for technical consultancies to Higher Education
                    and System Support Unit
1 Education        1BESO, basic education andteacher training project by USAID   1
  Education         Pooled Fund to Support implementation of Teacher Education
                    Development Program, DCI, NL, SIDA, and Belgium

  Education         ItalianContribution to ESDP-TVET     and others




                                        - 31 -

                            Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
                                          ResultsFramework

              PDO                      OutcomeIndicators                Useof OutcomeInformation


Improve humanresource                     Percentageo f the age                   Monitor improved quality
development capacity at the post-         cohort enrolled in                      and compositional changes
secondary education level                 university and TVET                     o f labor force.
                                          institutions.

                                          Numberof graduates:
                                          undergrad, grad and TVET.

                                          Percentageo f females                   Monitor and enhance

                                          entering and graduating by              quality and efficiency o f

                                          cohort.                                 instruction at post
                                                                                  secondary level.
                                          Percentageo f sub-sector
                                          and institution level prime
                                          objectives achieved as part
                                          o f strategic plans.                    Focus resource allocation
                                          Number o f s h l l                      on critical skillareas and
                                          certificationprograms,                  better target performance
                                          accredited programs o f                 deficiencies.
                                          instruction, and number o f
                                          graduates from them.

     IntermediateResults            ResultsIndicatorsfor Each              Use ofResultsMonitoring
     Oneper Component                        Component

Component One: University           ComponentOne:                        Component One:
                                                                         Determine progress towards

Increase innumber and quality o f       Numberofaccreditedprograms       acheving minimal quality standards.
                                        and institutions.
undergraduate andpostgraduate                                            Measure o f subject knowledge and
programs                                Number offaculty/ instructors
                                        upgradedthroughshort-termand     teachmg quality (indirect).
                                        degree training, disaggregatedby
                                        gender.                          Assess expanded leadership capacity
                                        Numberofinstitutional            and institutional efficiency.
                                        administratorsandmanagers
                                        upgraded.                        Measure o fholistic departmentau
                                        Numberofcomprehensive            faculty/ administrative unit
                                        Innovationproposalssubmitted     improvement.
                                        and successfully implemented.    Assess progress towards the
                                        NumberofMaster's degrees and     provision o fnecessary teaching staff
                                        PhDsawardedannually,             to accompany enrollment expansion.
                                        disaggregatedby gender.
                                        Percentageof enteringstudents    Individually and collectively assess
                                        graduatingon time,               implementation o fmajor policy
                                        disaggregatedby gender.          framework for autonomy and
                                                                         decentralization.




                                                  - 32 -

ComponentTwo: TVET                         Number of coursecurricula
                                           revised improved.             ComponentTwo:

                                           Numberof regionaltrade and      0   Certification to employers
Strengthened human capacity in             testingcenters establishedand       of skillandknowledge
systems development, institutional         functioning.                        competencies.

leadership and teacher training            Number of institution and
                                           departmentlevel                     Proxy measuresof labor

                                           administrators upgraded             quality.
                                           through short-termand degree        Indicator o f labor supply
                                           training.                           meeting acknowledged
                                           Numberofworkshops and               standardso fperformance.
                                           seminars offeredwith input
                                           from intemationalTA.                Monitor change inTVET
                                           Tracer studies andlabor             instruction, content and
                                           market assessmentsconducted.        quality.



Because o f the highunit cost associated with bothuniversity and TVET training relative to other
education sub-sectors, the Bank and Ministry will monitor closely the financial allocations
within the sector to ensure that the plannedexpansion does not occur at the expense o f progress
in basic and secondary education.         For that reason, the following indicators will also be
monitored, although they are not direct indicators o fproject performance.
                 Total public expenditure per degree student in constant Birr (to track possible
                  shifts ingovernment funding effort and their impacts on educational quality).
         e       Percent o f overall education sector budget allocated to higher education and to
                 TVET (to monitor possible negativeimpact on EFA efforts).
         e       Total public annual recurrent expenditure and student cost-sharing contributions
                 per student inconstant Birr (to track possible shifts ineducational quality).
         @       Annual government recurrent budgetary allocation to the tertiary and TVET sub-
                  sectors in constant Birr with 2003 as the base year (to ensure that project funds
                  supplement the government's financial effort, rather than substitute for it and to
                 monitor impact o f cost-sharing).
There are several critical risk factors that could affect achievement o f the objectives defined
above.
Sector Resources.          Government is challenged in making necessary and sufficient resource
allocations across sub-sectors within the limits o f the educationbudget. Education's share o f the
national budget in 2003/04 is 17% - on the low side o f intemational norms. The cost o f the
proposed expansion o f higher education and TVET is high: under ESDP 11, the share o f the
education budget           allocated to higher      education increased      from     14.9%       to  23%
(recurrent + capital) over the last three years, and TVET increased from 1.3% to 5.1%
(recurrent only). These increases came at the expense o f the share allocated to basic education
which declined from 61% to 51% (recurrent only) during ESDP 11. Basic education is the top
sector priority o f government and it is currently spending 49% o f the education budget on this
sub-sector.     However, in light o f enrollment targets for basic education, either the overall
allocation for education must increase or the percentage provided for basic education will likely
grow if government is to stay on track in its quest to meet the MDG targets by 2015.
The increase inspending for higher education under ESDP I1represented a substantial temporary


                                                  - 33 -

anomaly to pay for the capital expenses required to expand facilities to accommodate the
enrollment increases. The anticipatedimpact o f cost-sharing is critical to maintaining budgetary
balance but within the sector or else the sector as a whole will face serious economic difficulties
over the medium term. The highunit cost o f TVET instructionrelative to primary and secondary
will hopefully decline as programs are redefined, priorities adjusted, and the responsibility for
instruction i s increasingly shared with the private sector.
Proposal Development Capacity.             Government's block-grant formula will ensure each
university a predictable, transparent resource transfer.         The DIF incentive scheme will
differentially reward faculties that create innovative, efficient proposals for additional resources.
The IDA strategy will provide "topping up" funds - additionalities to the block grant funds -to
creative, energetic faculties.    Recognizing that not all university groups are equally adept at
writing proposals, the DIF will include mechanisms for helping institutions overcome
disadvantages inproposal writing and creative planning. The competitive incentive program has
the risk o f "over"    funding institutions/faculties pre-disposed to write better, more creative
proposals. However, procedures will be included in the incentive scheme to limit disparities in
awards and to strengthen institutional ability to generate fundable development strategies.
During the first year o f implementation, significant effort will be made to improve capacities
through training and TA.
Management of the DIF. Experience inother countries with similar innovation funds indicates
the critical importance o f qualified and sufficient numbers o f staff to administer the processes
underpinning such funds. The technical implementation o f the DIF at the national level will be
the responsibility o f Ministry's Planning and Programming Department. Because DIF is a new
creation, it is critical that sound leadership and adequate staffing be available to ensure there are
no delays in the start-up.      The technical assistance being provided by other donors may be
helpful inorganizing proposal administration. However, if significant delays occur inthe review
and award process, either at the central or institutional level, the effect could be to dampen
university staff enthusiasm for developing proposals and for pushinginnovative reforms.
Procurement. Although most o f the universities have fairly substantial experience in
procurement, including I C B,several o f the newer, smaller institutions and the TVET programs
have less proficiency in developing budgets and contracting. IDA will conduct several training
programs on these topics within several months o f project launch.          Assessments have been
conducted o f the procurement and financial management capacity o f each university and
programs will be designed in accordance with those evaluations.               Because the bulk o f
procurement for the university component will be handled at the institutional level as part o f the
process o f decentralization and autonomy development, the role o f the central ministry will be
considerably diminished for this function, although it will still play a critical role in financial
management and auditing.




                                                 - 34 -

                                   I
                                  IA
                                 M
                                   I




              W         0
                        VI    ?
                              e




              d         0
                        VI


                  e0


              N    0
                   d    d

                   2
                   0
                              9
                   m    0
                        VI    e


-.-P4
eg            0    0




         U

                          x     x   X    X    m



                     x  x                     m



         X   x  x                             m



X    X    X                                   f-




                                                0




  e  .  .  .     e  .    e  .  .  .  .  .

+  N0
    VI    VI




    I-




    0
    N
    VI
3




3    0          0 0




   e            *  *

                          Annex 4: Detailed ProjectDescription
The project will have two main components: university expansion and qualitative
strengthening; and technical and vocational education capacity development in
support o f its on-going system reform. The project will be implemented over four
years at a total cost o f USD40.0 million.
Component 1: University Development (USD 35 million).
Objectives. Three objectives guide investments inthe higher education component o f
this project.    First, component activities seek to boost educational quality and
relevance during a period o f rapid expansion in enrollments. Second, a portion o f
funds will be used to supplement the government's own budget for higher education
during a transitional period of roughly five years in which a financing gap is
projected. The financing gap i s the result o f the sharp rise in costs associated with
rapid system expansion and the time delay o f five years or so before significant
revenues will be received from the newly introduced graduate tax.            Third, the
component will encourage innovation and modernization o f teaching and learning
within higher education institutions.
BeneJciaries. The component will benefit nine higher education institutions (Addis
Ababa, Bahir Dar, Debub, Gonder, Mekelle, Alemaya, Jimma, Arba Minch, Nazreth),
three newly established system support agencies (Higher Education Strategy Institute,
Quality and Relevance Assurance Agency, Pedagogical Resources Centers), and
higher education functions within the Ministry itself.
Project Summary.          The higher education component is currently budgeted at
USD 34.8 million and comprises the following three sub-components.                First,
USD 16 million will be contributed towards the general investment needs o f the
institutions (e.g., training, books, journals, equipment) in the form of institutional
development grants.       Payments will be made annually through the government's
newly established block grant funding system. Amounts for each institution will be
determined through the application o f government's new funding formula for
budgetary allocations.      Second, approximately USD 3.8 million will support the
establishment and capacity development o f the three new system support agencies as
well as expanded higher education functions within the Ministry. Funds will be
released annually insupport of the approved work programs o f these agencies. Third,
a Development Innovation Fund (DIF) o f USD 15 million will provide funding to
university managers, academic staff, and students on a demand-driven basis in
support o f fundingproposals that they develop to strengthen the quality and relevance
o f academic programs and the effectiveness o f institutional management.
An additional USD 1.5 millionis left as anunallocatedreserve for the project.
Sub-Component 1: Institutional Development Grants (USD 16 million). At the
beginning o f each o f four consecutive fiscal years, USD 4 millionwill be apportioned
among the nine higher education institutions to address a portion o f their incremental
investment needs during the period o f the projected five-year financing gap. These
annual payments will be conditioned by the implementation o f certain policy reforms
put forth in the government's Higher Education Proclamation o f June 2003.
Examples include the introduction o f the graduate tax (already accomplished),
establishment o f the block grant and funding formula mechanisms, establishment
o f an accreditation system, development o f management information systems, and
subsequent review o f system financing needs and the effectiveness o f cost-sharing.

                                          - 38 -

Funding will only be used for a positive list of investment needs such as staff
development,     management training, pedagogical materials,        library holdings,
instructional equipment, technical assistance, visiting lecturers, information and
communications technology. Allocations for each institution will be determined by
application o f the government's new funding formula for higher education.
Disbursement will be carried out through the government's newly established block
grant mechanism.
Sub-component 2: System Support Agencies (USD 4.0 million).               Capacities to
guide and support the development o f the country's higher education system will be
substantially enhanced through the establishment of three new system support
agencies identified inthe Higher EducationProclamation. Roughly USD 2.4 million
would complement government's own resources and other donor contributions for the
development o f the Ethiopian Higher Education Policy Institute, the Quality and
Relevance Assurance Agency, the National Pedagogical Resources Center and Sub-
Centers.   An additional USD 1.6 million would be applied to strengthen higher
education system management capabilities within the Ministry o f Education,
including technical assistance for higher education institutions. Funds would be
disbursed at the beginning of each fiscal year in support o f an agreed Annual Work
Planfor each agency. The work plans would be based on each agency's own strategic
plan for its institutional development, andbe guidedby national policy goals.
Sub-component 3: Development Innovation Fund (USD 15 million). This Fund
would promote innovation and modemization o f staff teaching, student learning, and
institutional management within nine higher education institutions. The Fundwould
be demand-driven, providing fundingto proposals originating within the institutions.
Proposals can be submitted by university faculties, departments, institutes, centers,
libraries, or any other organizational unit. Fundingwould be made available through
three separate funding "windows."       These would be for undergraduate programs
(50% o f Fundresources), graduate programs (30%), and leadership and management
development activities (20%).
Each proposal would be required to demonstrate consistency with the institution's
Strategic Plan, and to aim at producing a change in the output or performance o f
academic programs or management functions. The proposal would have to identify
the inputsor resources necessary to achieve this change inoutput or performance, and
orchestrate them in an integrated fashion to attain the proposed performance goal.
Inputs would include such things as graduate training, short term training, distance
education, technical assistance, staff exchanges, visiting professors, teaching
equipment, textbooks, scientific journals, research activities, computers, seminars, and
institutional linkages.
The Fund would provide two types o f grants. Level 1 grant proposals would be
budgeted at USD 20,000 or less. They would be reviewed and approved through an
evaluation process carried out on each university campus. Level 2 grant proposals
would be budgeted between USD 20,000 and USD 150,000.                  They would be
evaluatedand approved by means of expert panels constituted at the national level.
Fundingproposals would be submittedinresponse to a public call for proposals that
would be issued twice a year inFebruary and July. Interested university staff would
develop and submit their proposals within 60 days. A peer evaluation process would
assess the quality, relevance and innovativeness o f each proposal in relation to


                                          - 3 9 -

university strategic plans, standards o f academic excellence,           and national
development policy priorities. Approved proposals would be implemented on the
basis o f Performance Agreements signed between the Ministry o f Education and the
respective university. A significant portion o f the financial management, purchasing
and implementation o f these proposals would be carried out within the awardee
university. An organizational diagram o f this process i s providedinAnnex 6.
Component 2: Technical and Vocational Education Training (USD 4.0 million).
Technical and vocational education and training (TVET) in Ethiopia i s characterized
by diversification of provision and quality o f services offered.        Public TVET
institutions under the education ministry concentrate on post Grade 10 formal TVET
programs. They are complementedby employer-based in-house training programs o f
public and private companies, TVET schools run by NGOs (mainly church) and an
increasing number o f private commercial training providers. In non-formal TVET
programs public institutions, NGOs, and private schools offer employment-oriented
training to various target groups, includingschool leavers, people currently employed,
school drop outs and other marginalized groups.           These programs are not yet
systematically registered or monitored.       It is generally assumed, however, that
demand for non-formal training exceeds the current supply o f opportunities. Informal
(on-the-job) training i s widespread, but due to the absence o f a systematic trade
testing and certification system there are currently no mechanisms to recognize
informal technical learning.     Traditional apprenticeships in the small and micro
enterprise sector constitute another potentially important, yet entirely un-researched
training environment. Public training schemes to produce qualified administration
and health personnel, and a growing number o f "agriculture TVET" programs cater
for specialized segments o f the labor market.
This component will expandand deepen the system reform activities currently spear-
headed by the Ministry o f Education in collaboration with GTZ. IDA support will
focus on developing the capacities to strengthen and implement the system changes
which are under way. The capacity development efforts will provide the foundation
for strengtheningthe five pillars o f the TVET transformation:

         e      Decentralization o f service design and delivery;
         0      Strengthening partnerships among stakeholders, esp. between training
                providers and employers;
         e      Development and implementation o f trades testing and certification
                systems;
         e      Cost-sharingby beneficiaries; and
         e      Market-based demand orientation that shapes training.
There i s a critical need to develop a cadre o f officials at each level o f the system
(policy, management, implementation) who have an awareness o f the need for system
reform, understand the components o f the changes underway, and who possess the
technical skills necessary to carry out the roles and responsibilities of new strategies
for improving the TVET system.            IDA resources will complement the efforts
o f government and GTZ to reform the system by buildingcapacity to implement the
reforms through a three part program: (1) formal and informal skills development at
each level o f the system; (2) research, monitoring and evaluation that will provide
on-going insight into training and the effectiveness o f reform strategies; and
(3) new program development that will facilitate the application o f new capacities and


                                           -40 -

approaches to TVET in critical sectors o f the economy in need o f development and
expansion (e.g., tourism, construction and para-medical services.)
Sub- Component One: Skill Development (USD 3.0 million).                Inorder to develop
the skill capacity necessary to bring out large scale system reform o f TVET, the
lessons from international experience on effective policy formation, design and
management o f training activities, standards setting and certification and curriculum
design need to be developed at appropriate levels o f the TVET system in Ethiopia.
The Ministry has proposed, and IDA will support, a comprehensive, three-part skill
development program to develop the capacity foundation that will be the foundation
stones linking the five pillars. The four year program will consist o f (i)      in-country
MA degree level training inhighpriority skill areas; (ii)     advanced diploma programs
(one year overseas study and training); and (iii)     short-term in-country training in the
form o f workshops and seminars. Part o f the proceeds o f the IDA Credit will also
finance purchases o f education and training equipment and books
       Masters Degree Level Training
It is anticipated that 150 individuals will be selected for and will complete Master
degree level training within the four years o f the project. Critical training areas will
be identified by the ministry in collaboration with GTZ and IDA. Candidates for
training will be selected on the basis o f background, skill relevance, ability, and role
in the sector. A Master Degree long-term training plan will be developed by the
central ministry incollaboration with RegionalTVET heads, GTZ and a private sector
representative serving on the TVET council. This committee will review candidate
nominations / applications and agree on the final roster o f candidates and degree
concentrations. The ministryhas proposed the following areas for support:

        0       TVET program evaluation and assessment;
        0       planning and implementation;
        0       TVETpolicy development andtraining management;
        0       curriculum and instruction strategies; and
        0       labor market analysis and apprenticeshipprogram design.
        0       Subject area specialists.

        Advanced Diploma Level Training.
This training is designed to provide more specialized, intensive exposure to TVET
models in other countries and to take advantage o f non-degree skill development
opportunities at specializedtraining institutions, industrial job sites, public and private
sector partnership organizations, etc. Emphasis will be placed on acquiring practical
skills and experience in both academic and applied settings, or combination thereof,
so that they can be usedto shape and strengthen progress ininstitutionalizing the five
pillars noted earlier.   In year one of the project, The National TVET Council in
collaboration with the ministrywill identify priority capacity development needs, will
identify potential training /apprenticeship sites (with the assistance o f GTZ, IDA,
consultants, etc. as needed and appropriate), and draft a tentative five year training
plan o f objectives, priorities, and potential sites. Thirty-thirty-five individuals per year
will participate inthe advanced diploma program, a total o f 100 over the life o f the
project. Inaddition to the priority areas identifiedfor long-term training, priority will
also be given to curriculum implementation, defining and operationalizing
occupational standards in the curriculum and classroom, and specialized curriculum
development (by skill category - to be prioritized). In aggregate approximately 43%

                                            - 4 1 -

(USD 1.36 million) o f the skills development component budget will be allocated to
Master and Advanced Degree Training.
        Short-Term Training.
To broaden understanding o f the policy pillars,              short-term training ( in-
country workshops and seminars) will be conducted for a broad array o f TVET
managers and implementers. The training will be divided into three broad areas o f
focus: TVET policy and strategy, TVET institutional and instructional management,
and instruction.     Among the topics to be covered within these three areas are:
curriculum development, implications o f policy reform at the federal, regional and
institutional level, training relevancy, quality and supervision, testing and assessment,
non-formal     TVET, monitoring and evaluation,           labor    force   linkages and
apprenticeships, public-private sector partnerships and Joint Councils. Four to five
training programs o f one-two weeks in length (subject to content and preferred
delivery strategy) will be conducted per year, with the assistance o f international
technical experts and trainers who will be funded at least partially with project
resources. Presentations delivered by experts will be taped and both the presentations
and instructional materials developed for the training programs will be more widely
disseminated to non-participants following the training sessions.            On average
300 individuals per year will directly participate inthe training programs and several
thousand others will indirectly benefit from distribution o f materials. This initiative
will comprise approximately 29%             o f the skills    development component
USD0.94 million. The remaining 28 % (USD 0.9 million) is allocated for books,
training and educational equipment.
Sub-Component Two: Monitoring, Evaluation and Research (USD 275,000). With
the development o f new trade testing standards, certification procedures,
apprenticeship programs, partnerships, revised curricula, etc., there i s a need to
measure and validate the effectiveness o f the investments made. This sub component
will complement the systems reform efforts being led by the ministry with the
assistance o f GTZ. Resources from IDA will enable the ministry to monitor the
impact o f reforms and to make adjustments to policies and programs that might be
indicated by the investigations.       Through this sub-component the ministry and
regional offices will also be able to undertake studies inparticular occupational areas
to define better training needs and to shape curricula, to develop and field test new
curricula and assessment methodologies and to validate testing and certification
procedures. Proposals for research, evaluation and monitoring activities will be
solicited semi-annually from regional education offices, TVET Councils, and training
service providers in accordance with review criteria to be developed by the central
ministry in collaboration with GTZ and IDA. Proposals will be reviewed by a sub-
committee o f the national Steering Council and approved by the full Council which i s
composed o f representatives from         the Ministry o f Education, the Employer's
Federation, the Chamber o f Commerce, TVET Regional Commissions, private
providers and NGOs. Upon proposal approval, funds for each activity will be
provided through the Special Account in accordance with the respective budget and
benchmarks for each proposal. Statements o f Expenditure will be required for all
approved activities and will be submitted to the Ministry's Planning and Program
Office as per all other non-DIF project sub-components.




                                           - 4 2 -

Sub-Component 3: New Program Development (USD425,000). As Ethiopia moves
towards greater economic diversification, the demand for new skills and the training
programs required to produce them also increases. This sub-component will enable
the central ministry, regional offices and TVET institutions to design and test new
instructional programs and or working relationships and partnerships by providing
seed money to develop curricula, test for their effectiveness and relevancy and to
develop prototype sets o f instructional materials and assessment instruments that can
be shared with other service providers. IDA resources will also be used to revise
existing curricula to incorporate new service standards and accreditation requirements
and to test them to ensure that they are fully compliant with certification norms and
expectations for learning outcomes.      Proposals will be solicited from Regional
Bureaus and TVET institutions on a semi-annual basis and subject to the same review
as specified in sub-component 2. Proposals which reflect government priorities
(e.g., self-employment strategies) as specified in the solicitation for proposals, and
which meet technical and content criteria for funding will be given priority.

Unallocated(USD 1.0 million).

This amount has been placed in the unallocated category to provide flexibility for
future funding needs related to the program's objectives. One such example is the
potential need to implement recommendations/guidelines that may emerge from the
national committee examining possible support to and collaboration with private
providers o fhigher education services.




                                         - 43 -

                                 Annex 5: ProjectCosts
                  Summary of IDA FundingSupport by ProjectCategory

                                                        Local *         Foreign        Total
ProjectCost By Component andor Activity
                                                     USDmillion      USDmillion      USDmillion

1. UniversityComponent                                      .20         35.0           35.2
  a. InstitutionalDevelopmentGrant Support                              (16.0)        (16.0)
  b. SystemsSupportUnits:                                 (0.2)          (4.0)         (4.2)
      i.EHESI                                             (0.05)         (1.0)         (1.05)
      ii.QUA                                              (0.02)         (0.75)        (0.77)
     iii.PRC                                              (0.03)         (0.75)        (0.78)
     iv. CentralMinistry                                  (0.1)          (1.5)         (1.6)
  c. DevelopmentInnovationFund                                          (15.0)        (15.0)
       i.Window1                                                         (7.5)         (7.5)
      ii.Window2                                                         (4.5)         (4.5)
      iii.Window3                                                        (3.0)         (3.0)
2. TVET Component                                          0.3            4.0           4.3
  a. CapacityDevelopment                                  (0.2)          (3.3)         (3.5)
  b. NewProgramDevelopment                                (0.0)          (0.425)       (0.425)
  c. Monitoring,Evaluation& Research                      (0.1)          (0.275)       (0.375)
3. Unallocated                                                            1.0           1.0
Total Baseline Cost                                        0.5           40.0          40.5
 Physical Contingencies                                                   0.0           0.0
PriceContingencies                                                        0.0           0.0
TotalProject Costs                                         0.5           40.0          40.5
Interest duringconstruction                                               0.0           0.0
Front-endFee                                                              0.0           0.0
TotalFinancingRequired                                     0.5           40.0          40.5
               *  Doesnotincludenormalgovernment financingofrecurrentandcapitalbudget




                                             - 44 -

                         Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
Development Innovation Fund Management Arrangements. (see Annex 15 - DIF
Operational Manual - for fully specified detail.)      The DIF will be financed with
Government counterpart funds from the national budget and from project financing
providedby IDA. Proposals will be submitted inresponse to well-publicized calls for
proposals issued on a semi-annual basis.        Collaboration across universities, with
academically related organizations such as professional associations, other national
tertiary institutions (public and private), business partners, non-governmental
organizations, etc. will be encouraged.
Activities eligible for financing under these proposals will include: post-graduate
degree education, professional training, research, teaching and laboratory equipment,
information technology, scientific joumals, textbooks, expatriate academic staff,
technical assistance, leadership development, management capacity building, and
institutional planning.
Depending on the size, nature and origin o f the proposals, they will be reviewed
through a peer review processes either at the level o f the institution where they are
submitted ( Level 1for small grants- up to USD 20,000) or at a national level (Level 2
- up to USD 150,000). Level 1proposals will be reviewed and approvedby campus-
based Proposal Review Committees.           Level 2 proposals will be reviewed and
approved by Academic Area Review Panels o f specialists convened by the Ministry
o f Education, with input, if requested, from other Higher Education System Support
Institutions.
Four mechanisms comprise the management structure o f the Development Innovation
Fund. They are: (i) Office of the Vice Minister for Higher Education, (ii)
                       the                                                         the
Planning and Programming Department (PPD) within the Ministry o f Education,
(iii) university Academic Vice-presidents and the DIF Campus Coordinators
     the
(DCC) who work under them, and (iv) the DIF Oversight Committee. The Office of
the Vice Minister will play a general supervisory role and ultimately be accountable
for project implementation performance. The PPD will issue the public calls for
proposals, receive proposals, convene the academic Area Review Panels that would
evaluate the proposals, and prepare the Performance Agreements for those proposals
approved for funding. The PPD will also provide training to university staff inproject
procurement and financial administration procedures, disburse funds on the basis o f
the signed Performance Agreements, prepare periodic progress reports, and organize
project monitoring visits. The Academic Vice-presidents on each campus will be
responsible for communicating, supporting and monitoring DIF activities, and for
ensuring that certain campus-based DIF coordination functions are carried out.
The DIF Oversight Committee, comprising the Vice-Minister o f Education,
a representative o f the Ministry o f Finance and Economic Development, the Director
o f EHESI, and the Head o f PPD will provide overall policy guidance and monitor DIF
performance.
 The Ministry's Planning and Programming Department, under the supervision o f its
Department Head, will carry out the following DIF functions:

         0      issue periodic public calls for the submission of DIFproposals;
         0      receive all DIFproposals and organize them for review;




                                          -45 -

        0      identify qualified national and international members of the Area
               Review Panels who will carry out these assessments, and to convene
               these Panels;
               prepare PerformanceAgreements for each approved proposal;
        0      convene periodically the DIF Oversight Committee;
               identify institutions' technical assistance needs for the purpose o f
               improving proposal preparation and organize technical support and/or
               training workshops to addressthese needs; and
        0      communicate and coordinate with the institutional Academic Vice-
               Presidents, and through them with the campus-based DIF Coordinators
               and DIF Proposal Review Committees (PRC), as necessary in order to
               further the objectives o f the DIF.
TheMinistry's Planning and Programming Department will, inaddition, carry out all
financial management, procurement, and routine administrative functions associated
with all aspects o f the University Component. Among its duties will be the timely
disbursement o f funds and the preparation o f periodic reports. With regard to the
Development Innovation Fund, the PPD will perform the following functions:

        0      disburse funds under signed DIF Performance Agreements and to
               monitor the proper use o f DIF resources insub-project execution;
        0      obtain quarterly financial and procurement progress reports from each
               participating institution using a standard reporting format and a
               standard chart o f accounts, and to consolidate these reports into
               quarterly reports for IDA that cover the entire Post-Secondary
               Education Project;
        0      provide technical assistance and training to institutional staff
               concerning use o f the DIF Operations Manual, the World Bank's
               procurement guidelines, and the actual activities o f procurement;
        0      arrange for annual project financial audits; and
        0      carry out any other activities necessary to ensure the timely
               implementationo f DIF activities.
Level I proposals (<USD 20,000) will be submitted to a review process at the
institution level, with final authority for approval resting with the Vice President for
Academics and Research, or designee, at each university. EachUniversity will either
create or use an existing Proposal Review Committee (PRC) to recommend courses o f
action to the Academic Vice President.         This PRC will carry out the following
functions:

        0      Review all proposals brought before it to assure their completeness,
               their relevance to their institution's Strategic Plan, and their potential
               to introduce innovations in the quality and relevance o f academic
               programs or institutional management.
        0      Evaluate and make funding decisions for all Level 1proposals (up to
               USD20,000) submitted to it. Baseduponthe merits of eachproposal
               according to stated selection criteria, the Committee may recommend
               approval o f those proposals deemed to have met the criteria




                                           - 46 -

                 satisfactorily.'     The process for assessment will follow guidelines
                 established and provided under the DIF Operations Manual
                 (Annex 15).        Proposals deemed to have merit, but not ready for
                 approval,       will be        retumed       to  the    proposing      party    with
                 recommendations for necessary revisions. Following revision, such
                 proposals may be resubmitted.                 Proposals deemed to be lacking
                 inrelevance or meritwillberejectedbythe Committee.
         e        Forward via the Academic Vice-president to the PPD all approved
                  Level 1 proposals so that the PPD may prepare the corresponding
                  PerformanceAgreement.
         e        Forward via the Academic Vice-president to the PPD for further
                  review by appropriate Area Review Panels all Level 2 proposals
                  (Le., those with budgets between USD 20,001 and USD 150,000) that
                  are judged complete, innovative, and relevant to the Strategic Plan o f
                  the institution.
         0        Forward via the Academic Vice-president to the DOC for appropriate
                  action any appeal o f a decision taken by the institution's Project
                  Review Committee.
         0        Take all necessary steps to ensure that the objectives andprocedures o f
                  DIFare widely understoodonits campus.
Any other functions that maybe deemedappropriateto achieve the goals ofDIF.
Level I1proposals (XJSD 20,000 and < USD 150,000) will be reviewed initially by
the Proposal Review Committee and Vice President o f Academic Affairs at the
institutional level to ensure that the proposal is an integrally related with the
university's Strategic Plan and priorities.                 If endorsed by the Academic Vice
President o f the institution, the proposal will be forwarded to the PPD at the national
level for assessmentbyArea Review Panels (ARP).
The PPD will establish and convene an Area Review Panel for more or less six broad
professional areas, as illustrated below:
1. Leadership andManagement
2. Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences
3. Natural Sciences and Mathematics
4. Health Sciences
5. Agriculture andVeterinary Medicine
6. Engineering and Technology


'The   authority of any Higher Education Institutionto approve proposals for up to USD 20,000 at the
PRC stage shall be limited according to the scheme outlined in Section 4.2 of the DIF Operational
Manual. Any qualified Level 1Proposalsapprovedafter the institution has reachedits annual funding
ceiling for Level 1Proposalswill needto be submittedto the Area Review Panels for assessment along
with other Level 2 proposals. The authority for an institution's PRCto approve Level 1proposalsmay
be withdrawn at any time by the Vice Minister for Higher Education if the institution is found to be
ineligible for participating in DIF, or ifthe institution's ProposalReview Committee fails to discharge
its functions in a satisfactory manner.      When the conditions that led to the withdrawal of proposal
approval authority have been satisfactorily remedied, the Vice Minister for Higher Education may
reinstate approval authority to the institution's ProposalReview Committee.


                                                   - 4 7 -

As inthe case of the campus-based Proposal Review Committees, the Area Review
Panels are the main quality control mechanism for the proposals brought to their
attention for assessment.
All proposals receivedby the PPD will be assigned to andreviewed by an ARP inthe
same funding cycle inwhich they are received. Whereas ARP 1will deal exclusively
with proposals submitted through the "window" for leadership andmanagement, ARP
2-6 may review proposals submitted through the "windows" for undergraduate
programs and also for graduate programs. In order to ensure prompt review, more
than one ARP may be appointed in a professional area if the number o f proposals
receivedwarrants such action.
The functions o f the Area Review Panels are to:

       0        review proposals submitted according to specific criteria established
                 for the three    "windows" under DIF. These criteria are indicated in
                 Section 6 o f the DIF Operations Manual. The process for assessment
                will follow guidelines established by the PPD for this purpose.
                 Proposals meeting the stated criteria may be recommendedby the Area
                 Review Panels for approval by the MoE. Proposals deemed to have
                 merit, but not ready for approval will be returned to the proposing
                 party with recommendations for necessary actions and may be re-
                 submitted during the next Request for Proposals (RFP) cycle.
                 Proposals deemed to be lacking inmerit will be rejected by the Panels.
        0        advise on steps that may be necessary to improve the quality o f
                 proposals and the functioning o f DIF; and
        0        provide a written report to the Head, PPD covering all actions taken.
The administrative process o f DIF review and approval i s summarized in the
following chart.


                            DIPReview and Approval Process


                                           DIFOversight Comittee
                                                     I


        Area ReviewPanel            Planningand ProgrammingDepartment              Area ReviewPanel


                                                     I
                                     UniversityAcademicVice President
                                    r
                                    CampusProposalReviewCommittee

              -I-
              ProposalPreparationTeam    Proposal PreparationTeam     ProposalPreparationTeam

                            eIIltI?I
                               UniversityPurchasing     UniversityFinanceOffice




                                                 - 4 8 -

Inorder to assist Ethiopian higher education institutions to identify innovations that
will help raise their academic programs to higher standards and to ensure that
Ethiopian industries are able to compete in a global economy and provide leadership
throughout the region, international experts in academic innovations will be
periodically invited to assist DIF in the selection, design, implementation, or
monitoring o f its activities and its structures. Likewise, higher education institutions
are encouraged to incorporate appropriate international expertise into their academic
and/or management proposals to the DIF. International participation may be
undertakeneither electronically or byphysicalpresence.
The DIF Oversight Committee (DOC) has responsibility for ensuring that the
aggregate results o f provisional funding decisions made by the ARPs and PRCs
advance the government's stated policy goals for higher education, as well as the
objectives o f DIF, both strategically and consistently. Indoing so, its role is to ensure
the overall policy relevance and effective performance o f the DIF program from one
year to the next.
The Development Innovation Fund will be implemented and monitored through
a series o f Performance Agreements (PA) (see Annex 15, DIF Operational Manual)
between departments/faculties, the university administration (inmost cases, the Office
o f the Vice President for Academic Programs), and the Ministry o f Education.
Quarterly financial accounting summaries o f rolling budgets (commitments,
allocations, expenditures, balance) will be submitted to IDA by the central ministry
for each Performance Agreement. With each release o f funds according to agreed
benchmarks o f progress inthe PA, the central ministryand university mustbe able to
demonstrate that the benchmark has been met that justifies the release o f those funds.
Duringthe twice yearly supervisionmissions, eachuniversity will be visited and each
PA will be reviewed by the IDA team to validate progress against expenditures.
The burden o f validation will be the responsibility o f the partners contracted through
the Performance Agreement.          Each university shall prepare a summary sheet
o f Performance Agreements in place, progress against benchmarks and a rolling
summary o f resource expenditures to date and commitments for the coming four
quarters.
System Support Units. As noted earlier, the Systems Support Units and the central
Ministry (higher education and TVET) will submit Annual Work Plans that will
include an assessment o f progress against the Plan in effect for the current year and
against the longer project objectives for each sub-component.          Progress will be
summarized in the AWP and submitted to IDA at least two weeks before the annual
May supervision mission. Budgets will be reviewed and approved inaccordance with
the content of the AWP. Each AWP will be reviewed and approved separately for
disbursement approval purposes.
Institutional Development Grants.         Resource allocations through the Institutional
Development Grant (IDG) sub-component will be tied to annual policy and
implementation benchmarks as indicated inthe matrix below.




                                            - 4 9 -

IYear I            InstitutionalDevelopmentGrantBenchmarks(IDG) for IDAFunding                               I
 2004           Application o f cost-sharing ("graduate tax") to the entering class o fundergraduates, and to
                subsequentclasses infollowing years.
                Completion o f draft Strategic Plan and Year 1 Operational Plan for the Quality &
                RelevanceAssurance Agency (QUA), The Ethiopian Higher Education Strategy Institute
                (EHESI), andthe National PedagogicalResourceCenter (NPRC).
 -              DIFArea Review Panels appointed.

 2005          Agreement oninitialformula for determining amountofblock grants for each university.
1              Implementationo fthe Block Grant Disbursement System.
                Completion of draft Strategic Development Plan for each university.

 2o06 I         Implementationo fInstitutional Accreditation System.
                Approved Strategic Plan for eachuniversity.

 2007           Review I Revision o fCost-Sharing Scheme.
                Review / Revision o fBlock Grant Formula.
                InterandIntrauniversity EMISRMS operational

There will be no partial funding allocations for partially completed benchmarks.
Upon validating that the benchmarks have been met IDA will then review the IDG
proposals from each university for their proposed use o f funds for capital expenditures
for that fiscal year. Following review and approval o f each IDG, the ministry and
university will be notified that that university's share o f the IDG can be released to
the university    in accordance with the block grant formula in effect for higher
education.   Each institution will be required to submit SOEs to the central ministry
and to IDA for all expenditures under the IDG sub-component.
TVET ComponentManagementArrangements
The TVET component will be located inthe office of the Vice Minister responsible
for TVET. The TVET office, in collaboration with the technical assistance provided
through GTZ to TVET office, will issue the public calls for sub-component 2 and 3
proposals. The TVET Steering Committee will establish review criteria, evaluate the
proposals, and make the awards.                  The Ministry's Planning and Programming
Department will be responsible for fiscal administration o f all the sub-components.
The TVET office will produce an Annual Work Planwhich will include:

        0   A review o f the previous year's activities with the previous AWP as a
            benchmark;
            A report for the pervious year's budget: requested, allocated, expended,
            anticipated expenditure through the end o f the current FY, by line item;
        0   Discussion o f accomplishments and shortcomings duringthe current FY;
        0   Description o f planned activities                    and strategy           for    overcoming
            implementation problems into he current FY;
        0   Indicators o f progress to be employed in assessing activities planned for
            the comingFY; and
        0   detailed Annual budget for the upcoming FY.
The Planwill also contain an update on the status o f the long-term trainees.
An average o f thirty three individuals per year will be trained ineach o f three groups
inthe advanced diplomaprogram, a total of 100over the life ofthe project in-country
in the newly opened Advanced Diploma programs. In addition, this training will


                                                  - 50 -

provide more specialized, intensive exposure to TVET models in other countries and
to take advantage o f non-degree skill development opportunities at specialized
training institutions, industrial job sites, public and private sector partnership
organizations. Emphasiswill be placedon acquiring practical skills and experience in
both academic and applied settings, and/or combination thereof, so that they can be
used to shape and strengthen progress in institutionalizing the five pillars noted
earlier.
The Terms o f Reference for consultants will require approval by IDA prior to
advertisement' recruitment and will be subject to the provisions o f the development
credit agreement. Proposals to conduct research activities, to initiate new programs,
and to establish sustainable monitoring and accreditation mechanisms will be subject
to review and approval by the national TVET Council. All submissions must be
acknowledged, reviewed, and actions taken within two months o f receipt o fproposals.
Examples o fpotential submissions that would be subject to this requirement include:

        e      Establishing TVET authorities and TVET Councils at Regional level;
        e      Pilot projects instandard and test item development;
               Labor market observatory activities;
        e      Development o f new models o f apprenticeship training; and
        e      Impact assessments of current and or new TVET development
               activities.
Semi-annual reviews will be conducted by the Bank, and may be carried out jointly
with other contributing donors, as is feasible. SOE and Procurement post-reviews
will be conducted for this subcomponent as described inAnnexes 7 and 8.




                                         - 51 -

       Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
FinancialManagement
The financial management assessmenti s done inline with the guidelines issued by the
Financial Management Board on June 30, 2001and revised on October 1,2003. The
objective o f the FM assessment i s to determine whether the implementing entities of
PSEP have acceptable financial management arrangements, which will ensure:
(1) that the funds are used only for the intended purposes in an efficient and
economical way, (2) the preparation o f accurate, reliable and timely periodic financial
reports, and (3) to safeguard the entities' assets. The FM assessment was done during
the months o f January and February 2004. The team visited the Ministry o f
Education, Jimma, Bahir-Dar and Mekelle Universities, and Gondar University
College. The Ethiopia CFAA was issued on June 17, 2003 and the results o f the
Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) have been taken into account
inperforming the assessmentfor thisProgram.
CountryIssues
The recent Country Financial Accountability Assessment carried out jointly by the
government, Bank and donors indicated that although considerable progress has been
made in the budgeting process, more needs to be done in the areas o f budgeting,
accounting, reporting and auditing. The CFAA report highlighted a development
action plan that should be implemented in order to improve the public financial
management systems. Most o f the action plan will be covered inthe existingfinancial
reforms under way through the financial support o f donors.
Until June 2004 when the project ended, the Bank financed the Education Sector
Development Program through a sector wide type o f lending.            For the Sector
Program, there were delays in obtaining regular reports from the regions by MoFED
so as to replenish the SAs on time and the audit reports were not submitted to IDA on
due dates. The audit reports for FY 2002 were not received untilearly 2004. This i s
mainly due to late submission o f reports from the regions.
StrengthandWeaknesses
The country's discipline in executing budget and compliance with the existing
government regulations i s the major strength inimplementing this project.
Some o f the staff at the Finance Unit o f the Planning and Programming Department
(PPD) o f MoE have many years o f experience in donor-financed projects, including
IDA. Some of the universities also have experience in implementing donor-financed
projects. Since all the universities are following the government system o f accounting
and the government accounting system requires periodic reporting and regular checks
bythe Auditor General and MoFED, the controlenvironment is adequate.
The number o f staff and their quality at the Finance Unit o f PPD and the universities
are not adequate considering the volume o f activities undertaken by the respective
departmentshnits. For example, the Finance Unit at the PPD i s currently handling
various donor-financed projects, which require various types o f reporting and auditing
arrangements. In addition to hiring new staff into the Finance Departments o f the
Universities and Finance Unito f the PPD, adequate training i s required for staff to be
engaged in this project. During the appraisal mission, the team was informedby the
universities that obtaining qualified accountants, given the current salary scale, is
problematic.     Currently, most o f the universities are designing new organizational


                                           - 52 -

structures which will help them attract qualified staff. This problem may be resolved
when the organizational structures of the universities are revised (on-going) and
approved by the respective boards of the universities.
RiskAnalysis
The project will be implemented by nine higher education institutions and various
federal offices. The capacities o f the universities vary and there i s a shortage of
qualified staff both at the federal and university levels. In order to mitigate this risk,
part o f the proceeds o f the credit will be usedto buildcapacity inthe area o f financial
management by recruiting additional staff and/or providingtraining to the staff.




                                            - 53 -

                                         Summary Risk Assessment


                                           - -
                                            Ri ;Assessment


                                           -
                                           H   SIY      N

InherentRisk

Lack o f trained manpower in the area o f                   [nthe short-run, contract skilled personnel
accountingand auditing                                      Ln these priority areas. Inthe long run, the
                                                            sngoing    CSRP        will   strengthen   the
                                                            accounting and auditing profession and
                                                            improve the salary scale for civil servants.

There     i s no  national   professional
association and accounting and auditing                     This area is covered under the civil services
                                                                                                              ~


standards                                                   reform Program

                    OverallInherent Risk


ControlRisk

 1.ImplementingEntities                                     The    O M    will     clearly   indicate  the
The project will be implemented by nine                     responsibilities o f all implementingentities.
universities and various federal offices.

 2. FundsFlow                                               Regular field visits by joint MoEiWorld
Fundsflow upto the university levels                        Bank missions.

~




 3. Staffing                                                The salary scale will be attractive to obtain
 Lack o f trained manpower and low                          qualified people.
 salary scale.

 4. AccountingPoliciesand Procedures
 The reporting formats have not yet been                    The reporting formats will be developed by
 finalized.                                                 PPDIMoE.

 5. InternalAudit
 There is a duplication o f work between                    The government should take initiatives to
 the internal audit department o f each                     consolidate the work o f internal audit and
 implementing agency and the inspection                     inspection.
 department of MOFED and BOFEDs.
~




 6. ExternalAudit                                           Developing the TOR o f the audit and
 Low capacity inthe auditing profession                     appointment o f auditors immediately after
                                                            effectiveness.

 7. ReportingandMonitoring
 Non-regular reporting from lower levels,                   Developing      a     good    reporting    and
 which are not complete and relevant                        monitoring mechanism.

 Overall Control Risk

 H= High,S = Substantial, M= Moderate, N=Negligible or Low




                                                 - 54 -

ImplementingEntities
The main implementing entities are the Ministry o f Education (MoE), the Ethiopian
Higher Education Strategy Institute (EHESI), the Quality and Relevancy Assurance
Agency (QRAA), the National Pedagogical Resources Center (NPRC), and nine
higher education institutions: Jimma, Bahir-Dar, Debub, Mekelle, Gondar, Arba-
Minch, Alemaya, and Addis Ababa universities, and Nazreth College o f Technical
Teacher Education. The MoE will be responsible for the overall implementation o f
the project. The Finance Unit at the PPD o f MoE will be responsible for the overall
management o f the resources o f the project, including recording, reporting and
auditing of the financial transactions o f the project.
Each university's Finance Department will be responsible for the financial
management o f their respective allocations through the project. The university's
Finance Department will report financial transactions to the Finance Unit at the PPD
o f MoE. All the source documents at the university level will be kept at the Finance
Department o f each university. The documents will be available to external auditors
and Bank mission members for audit and inspection.
The Finance Unit at the PPD o f MoE will be responsible for closing the annual
accounts o f the project and submittingthe same to external auditors. The Uniti s also
responsible for submitting the quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) to the
Bank 45 days after the end o f each quarter.
FundFlows
All donor funds and government contributions will go to the MoE. There will be two
Special Accounts (SA) inUSD to be opened at the NationalBank o f Ethiopia: one for
the DIF component and the other for the Institutional Development Grants, Systems
Support Units development, and TVET components. Two local currency accounts
will be opened either at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA or the NationalBank of
Ethiopia, to transfer amounts from the SAs and to deposit government contributions.
The MoE will transfer funds in local currency to each university based on the
achievement o f performance milestones for each approved sub-project as indicated in
each o f the sub-project Performance Agreements. All payments in foreign currency
under a sub-project and for the TVET sub-component will be made by the PPD,
Finance Unitinresponse to a documentedrequest from the awardee institution. Each
university i s expected to open one local currency account at a commercial bank
acceptable to IDA. All the transfers and payments will be made from the local
currency account opened for this project. Each university will send quarterly reports
on the movements o f the local currency account to MoE.
Subsequent replenishments to the SAs will be made on the basis o f the Statements o f
Expenditures (SOEs) to be submitted to the Bank by the PPD/MoE on regular basis.
Inorder to revolve the SAs at a rapid rate, all implementing entities need to submit
regular SOE reports on a regular basis, preferably monthly, but at least quarterly. The
flow o f funds i s graphically describedbelow.




                                            - 55 -

                  Local currency                  Local currency
                    Account-1                      Account-2




Staffing
The Finance Unit o f the PPD o f the M o E currently has seven staff, only one o f whom
has a BA degree and the rest have Diplomas. Inthe approved organizational structure
o f the Finance Unit o f PPD there are two vacant positions which require first degree
holders. Considering the volume o f work in this unit, IDA believes that the two
vacancies mentioned above should be filled as soon as possible.              Thus, the
recruitment of the two additional accountants will be an effectiveness condition.
Staffing levels at the universities vary from university to university. In general, the
university Finance Departments can handle the financial transactions o f the project,
provided adequate training is provided to the staff. The training should be supported
by a short financial management manual, which should be prepared prior to
disbursement o f project funds.
Accounting Policies and Procedures
All the universities and the MoE are using the Ministry o f Finance and Economic
Development (MoFED) system o f accounting, which i s modified basis o f accounting.
They use the manuals, formats and guidelines o f MoFED in recording and reporting
financial transactions o f the universities.
Some o f the universities, like Mekelle and Gondar, have project account units, which
look after the financial transactions o f the donor-financed projects.      The project
accounts sections use their own formats and chart o f accounts so as to fulfill donor

                                            - 56 -

reporting and auditing requirements. The project accounts o f the universities, where
they exist, will be the locus o f recording andreporting the financial transactions o f the
project.
Inorder to ensure that uniform reports are received from the universities, the MoE
shall develop or agree on a standardized reporting format and a chart o f accounts to
be usedby all the universities. This will be an effectiveness condition for the project.
InternalAudit
The internal audit units at each of the universities and the MoE will review the
financial transactions o f the project. Currently, the internal audit unit inmost of the
universities and MoE are not staffed with an adequate number o f personnel who are
adequately trained. The internal audit unit o f each university and the MoE will be
strengthened with the new organizational reforms underway at many o f the
universities.  The reforms will enable the universities to attract qualified people
through attractive salaries and benefits.
ExternalAudit
According to the Ethiopian Constitution, the Office o f the Federal Auditor General
(OFAG) is responsible for carrying out the audit o f all the financial transactions of the
federal government and subsidies to the regions. Each o f the regions has a regional
auditor general responsible for auditing financial transactions inthe region. The FAG
usually delegates responsibility to the Audit Services Corporations, the government
owned audit firm, and in some cases to private audit firms to carry out the audit o f
donor-financed projects. For this project, OFAG will assign an extemal auditor
acceptable to IDA.
MoFED is currently the main responsible body for closing the accounts and getting
the audit reports for the two sector Programs, ESDP and HSDP. The audit reports for
the year ended July 6, 2002 were significantly late in delivery. Currently audit
reports for the year ended July 6, 2003 are six months overdue. The submission o f
acceptable audit reports will be a condition for effectiveness. Inorder to improve the
reporting system for this project, the capacity at all the universities and MOE should
be strengthened by adding additional staff and providing regular training on recording
and reporting.
According to the new audit policy o f IDA, the MoE will prepare a consolidated
Project Account, which will include all project related expenditures and sources o f
funds from donors and the government. The auditors will express a single opinion on
the consolidated Project Account. The TOR for the extemal audit will be agreed
duringthe project launchworkshop. The audit reports should be submittedto IDA six
months after the end o f each fiscal year, which ends on 6 July o f eachyear.
Reportingand Monitoring
The Bank requires quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports to be submitted 45 days
after the end o f each quarter. The FMRsinclude:

        0       The Quarterly Financial Reports: consisting o f sources o f funds and
                their uses, statement o f uses o f funds by project components and
                activities, Special Account Reconciliation statement and a six month's
                Project Cash Forecastwhere needbe;
        0       Quarterly Project Progress Report:         The Report will contain a
                summary o f disbursements by Performance Agreement, requests for

                                           - 57 -

              additional funds in process by Performance Agreement,                and
              anticipated outlays for the coming four quarters (rolling budget); and
        e     Quarterly Procurement Report: The Report consist o f a rolling
              update o f procurement processes completed, underway and anticipated
              inthe coming quarter, to include goods, works andconsultancies.
The MoE will be responsible for consolidating the FMRs from all the universities and
will submitthe consolidatedFMRs to IDAwithin 45 days of the end of each calendar
quarter.
                                     ActionPlan

            Actionto betaken                Expectedcompletiondate        Responsible


     Preparation of a standard reporting
     format and chart of accounts on           Before effectiveness        Borrower
     recording and reporting of the
     Programfinancial transactions.
2    Organize a launch workshop for
     staff at all leveIs to familiarize       Within two months of         Borrower

     them with the flow o f funds,                 effectiveness

     recording and reporting
     Recruitmentoftwo additional
     accountants at the FinanceUnit of         Before effectiveness        Borrower
     the PPD
     Openingofbank accounts at the
     federal anduniversity levels              Before effectiveness        Borrower

5    Submit overdueESDPaudits                  Before effectiveness        Borrower




SupervisionPlan
Supervision missions will be conducted at least twice a year and each supervision
mission will visit a sample o f universities Records will be examined to ensure that
funds are usedfor the intendedpurposes.
DisbursementArrangements
The closing date o f the proposed credit will be September 1, 2009. The proposed
IDA credit will be disbursed against the categories shown in the table below.
Disbursements will be made in accordance with procedures and policies outlined in
the Bank's Disbursement Handbook.          The Development Innovation Fund (DIF)
Operations Manual will govern the use of the DIF funds within the framework o f the
Bank Handbook.




                                          - 58 -

                                       Allocationof Credit
     Expenditure               Amount in                        Financingpercentage
       Category               USDmillion
   Goods     *                     3.00.            100% o f foreign expenditures and 90%
      University                  (1.60)            o f localexpenditures

       TVET                       (1.40)


   Consultant Services             5.00           100%o f foreign expenditures and 85% o f loca:
     University                   (2.32)          expenditures

      TVET                        (2.68)
   Institutional                   16.00          100% o f amount disbursed
   Development Grants
   DIFSub-projects                 15.00          100% of amount disbursed
   Unallocated
Total                              40.00
*Higher Educ. (projected) = 40% goods; 60% services (of USD 4 m). WET (as submitted) = 33% goods; 67%
services (of USD4 m).



 There are two ways to disburse funds from the Bank. The first one i s the traditional
 disbursement method, which uses SA, SOE procedures and direct payment
 procedures. The second one i s the report-based method, in which regular Financial
 Monitoring Reports (FMR) plus additional statements will be the basis for
 disbursement.
 Capacities at all levels are deemed too low at present to produce regular financial and
 other reports through the report-based disbursement method. It has been agreed with
 government that disbursement from IDA will follow a traditional disbursement
 method at the start o f the project. Ifthe borrower i s interestedinfollowing the second
 method, it i s possible to switch to a report-method o f disbursement after the Bank has
 made a full assessment o f implementation capacity.
 Uses of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)
 Disbursementsmade on the basis o f SOEs (except for DIF Performance Agreements)
 will be as follows: (a) for goods, and consulting firms on all contracts less than
 US$ 150,000; (b) for individual consultants on all contracts less than US$50,000; and
 (c) for training and workshops, and operating costs on all contracts regardless o f the
 amount.       The borrower will retain all the supporting documentation for SOEs,
 including completion reports and certificates. The supporting documents will be
 made available to IDA during program supervision and will be audited annually by
 independent auditors acceptable to the Association. Disbursements for expenditures
 above these thresholds will be made against presentation of full documentation
 relating to those expenditures. During the project launch workshop, there will be a
 session on proper preparation o f withdrawal applications, including the preparation



                                                  - 59 -

and submission o f required supporting documents. IDA prior clearance will not be
required for IDGprocurements that are within defined thresholds.
SpecialAccount
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures under the Credit, the
Ministry of Education will establish two SpecialAccounts (SA) inthe NationalBank
o f Ethiopia: one for DIF (SA-1) and one for all other project components and sub-
components (SA-2).     The authorized allocation for the Special Accounts will be a
total o f USD 5 million: USD 2 m for DIF (SA-1) and USD 3 m for the other account
(SA-2).     Upon effectiveness,     IDA will deposit an initial amount up to
USD3.5 million (USD 1.5 m in DIF and USD 2 m in the other) into the Special
Accounts. Once the total disbursements from the Credit account, including
commitments, have reached an aggregate amount o f SDR 10,000,000, the initial
allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation. The NPCU will submit
replenishment applications at least once a month.
Counterpart Fund
The Government o f Ethiopia will open a local currency account ina commercial bank
acceptable to IDA and will make an initial deposit o f Birr 170,000 to finance its
contribution to the costs o f the project. Thereafler, it will deposit into the Project
Account on a quarterly basis, the amount required to timely replenish this Project
Account back to the amount o f the initial deposit.




                                         - 60 -

                            Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
A. General
Procurement inthe higher education institutes i s governed by the Federal procurement directive.
Based on an assessment done by the MOFED, the higher education institutions are considered
capable o f handling procurement for government finance contracts and have been delegated to
handle procurement without seeking clearance from MOFED for large value contracts.
Procurement for the proposedproject would be carried out inaccordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The general description o f various
items under different expenditure categories are described below. For each contract to be
financed by the Credit, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the
need for prequalification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed
between the Borrower and the Bankproject team inthe ProcurementPlan. The Procurement Plan
will be updated at least annually, or as requiredto reflect the actualproject implementationneeds
and improvements ininstitutional capacity.
The government, as part o f the procurementreform process, has drafted a new procurement code
and is planning to develop new standard biddingdocuments for the procurement of goods, works
and services. The National Biddingdocuments that are anticipated to be developed can be used
for National Competitive Bidding after verification by the Bank that the country's laws and
procedures also satisfy Bank requirements.
Procurement of Goods: the project will finance office and field equipment, computers,
textbooks and reading materials, school equipment and supplies. To the extent possible and
practicable, goods (with the exception o f textbooks and reading materials) and equipment to be
purchased under the project would be combined into packages worth at least USD 150,000.
Packages estimated to cost the equivalent o fUSD 150,000 or more would be procuredunder ICB
procedures using Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. Contracts estimated to cost less than
USD 150,000 equivalent would be procuredby NCB. Procurement for readily available off-the-
shelf goods that cannot be grouped together and estimated to cost less than USD 50,000
equivalent -would be procured on the basis o f Shopping Procedures - i.e. comparison o f written
quotations from at least three eligible suppliers. Written requests for such quotations will include
a clear descriptiodspecification and quantity of the goods; as well as requirements for delivery
time, place for the delivery or services, including any installation requirements as appropriate.
Quotations will be opened and evaluated at the same time. Alternatively, such goods may also
be procured from UN Agencies [e.g. IAPSO - Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office) or
UNICEF (United Nations Children's Fund)] provided each individual contract does not exceed
US$ 100,000.00.
Procurement of Text Books and Reading Materials. Low volumes o f books, proprietary
software, scientific magazines, journals to be procured by each University may be procured
under contracts negotiated directly with the manufactures/suppliers or their authorized agents.
Consulting Services; Consulting services for feasibility studies, supervision, management
studies; financial and technical audits; training course delivery; and provision o f specialized
skills through technical assistance arrangements) will be hired. Consultant services will be


                                                - 61 -

selected though the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method. Expression o f Interest
(EOI) for all consulting assignments estimated to cost the equivalent o f USD 200,000 or more
would be advertised in UNDB or DG-Market and in at least one newspaper with wide national
circulation.  In addition, for specialized assignments, the contracts may be advertised in a
specific international newspaper or magazine seeking "expressions o f interest [EOI]". Inthe case
o f assignments estimated to cost less than USD 200,000 the assignment will be advertised
nationally. For contracts estimated to cost less than the equivalent o f USD 200,000 per contract,
the shortlist may be made up entirely o f national consultants, provided that foreign consultants
who wish to participate are not excluded from consideration. The Least-Cost-Selection procedure
may be used for civil works engineering consultants and for audit contracts. Consulting
assignments costing less than USD 100,000 may be procuredby comparing the qualifications o f
consultants who have expressed an interest in the job or who have been identified. Individual
consultants will be selected inaccordance with Section V o fthe Guidelines.
Development Innovation Fund.           The project will finance sub-projects under the DIF
component on a demand-driven basis. Sub-projects will be subject to review and approval o f
written proposals submitted to the relevant approving panel. Arrangements for selecting and
funding proposals, including procurement will be carried out inaccordance with the procedures
detailed in the DIF Operations Manual (Annex 15). The types of activities eligible under these
sub-projects are described inthe Operations Manual. Eachproposal will constitute an agreement
between the M o E and the HEI, and will include a budget and procurement plan. The MOE will
follow the procedures in the Procurement Procedures Manual and use o f simplified bidding
documents to be providedby the project Procurement Unit.
Operational Costs: Costs associated with the implementation of this project which are above
and beyond normal operating expenses may be financed by the project. Costs associated with
managing the DIF, including inter alia, expenses for convening review panels, duplication and
travel costs associated with panel meetings, per diem, maintenance o f equipment and machines
used in direct support o f project activities would be procured using the implementing agency's
administrative procedures which were reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank.
B.      Assessment of the agency's capacityto implementprocurement
ProcurementCapacity
The Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) done in 1998 and 2002 has identified
procurement capacity as one o f the major weaknesses inpublic sector procurement. The capacity
assessments for the project also confirm these findings. It was further concluded fkom the
assessments that the procurement risk was high both at the Ministry of Education and Higher
Education Institutes (HEIs).
It was notedthat the Ministry o f Educationhas beenusingthe services of EMPDAto handle all
major procurement activities. In addition MOE has a procurement unit that handles small value
procurements. All HEIs have similar organizational structures. Procurement is handled by the
Property and Purchasing Division which is under the Administration Department. The
Administration Department reports directly to the Vice President for Administration and
Development o f the respective University. The HEIs based on the recently issued charter are
autonomous andhave beenhandlingall procurements.




                                               - 62 -

Procurement Capacity assessment was done at six HEIs and an in depth discussion was
conductedwith the Ministryo f Education. Fromthe discussions it was noted that the Ministryo f
Education Procurement Unit has very limited capacity and is not capable to handle the
procurement activities for the project. The HEIs have significant experience in handling goods
procurement using national procedures. However the HEIs have very limited experience in
procurement o f consulting services and international procurement. The major weaknesses
identified are the following: (i)number o f procurement staff not adequate and a majority o f the
staff-have not participated inprocurement training programs; (ii) limited experience especially in
selection o f consultants and International procurement; (iii) o f bidding documents not
                                                               quality
satisfactory; (iv) Records management systems not adequately organized; and (v) no standard
documents available for procurement o f goods and consulting services, ;inadequate
It was agreed that the following actions will be taken to enhance the procurement capacity o f the
University and MoE.

        0       One short-term highly qualified consultant and one permanently appointed
                national procurement specialist with adequate qualification and experience would
                be employed at the Ministry o f Education to assist in the management o f the
                procurement functions and buildingprocurement capacity. The advertisement for
                the employment o f the consultants would be issued prior to effectiveness and
                consultants would be employed within three months after the project effectiveness
                and before disbursement is made to the DIF component. The international
                consultant together with national consultants would be responsible for providing
                technical assistance for (i)preparing and delivering procurement capacity
                building workshops at central and University level, (ii)Preparingprocurement
                plans, bidding documents, bid evaluation reports, and contract documents (iii)
                mentoring procurement staff at the HEIs and MoE. (iv) reviewing procurement
                documents prepared by HEIs and (v) reviewing the institutional setup for
                managing procurement in the HEIs and making recommendations for building
                capacity. It is anticipated that adequate procurement capacity would be built
                within one year and the services o f the international consultant may not be
                required for more than a year.
        0       A comprehensive and intensive Procurement Training Program would be
                conducted for procurement staff in each o f the Implementation Agencies for all
                staff who have not already participated in such type o f training. At least two staff
                from each University that i s involved in the preparation o f bidding documents,
                and evaluation o f bids would participate in the training program. The training
                should cover all aspects o f procurement and focus on the identified weak areas
                such as: (i)procurement planning and monitoring, selection of consultants,
                preparation o f tender documents, and evaluation o f bids. The training program
                could include specialized training for selected staff at Management Procurement
                Training Institutes in Africa like ESAMI, GIMPA etc. The first round o f local
                training, including at least two procurement staff from each university and the
                MinistryofEducation, would be conducted prior to effectiveness.
        0       An Orientation Workshop will be conducted for staff inthe HEIs and MOE that
                are involved in the procurement decision-making process including tender



                                               - 63 -

               committee members, Division Heads, Department Heads. The Orientation would
               be conducted duringlauncho fthe project.
        0      The number and qualification o f the procurement staff in each University would
               be reviewed by the International Consultant and additional staff would be
               employed or assigned as required. The organizational setup for managing
               procurement at each University would be reviewed by a national or an
               International consultant and a system that would clearly define delegation o f
               procurement functions and give appropriate authority and recognition to the
               procurement specialist would be developed.
        0      Delegation would be given to the HEIs in a progressive manner. The HEIs would
               be delegated to handle national procurement using N C B and shopping
               immediately after     (i)employment or assignment of a qualified staff, (ii)
               participation o f the staff in the training program if already not adequately
               qualified, and (iii)
                                  implementationo f the Orientation program.
ProcurementImplementationArrangements
The Higher Education Department Procurement Unit under the Ministry o f Education will be
responsible for handling the procurement functions for the (i)  Quality and Relevance Assurance
Agency, (ii) Higher Education Strategy Institute, (iii)National Pedagogical Research Center; and
(iv) TVET sub-component. Inaddition, the Department will be responsible for consolidating the
reports received from the universities and for overall monitoring o f the procurement functions.
Each Higher Education Institution will prepare its own procurement plan for each IDG and will
get the plans cleared by IDA. Individual institutions will be fully responsible for preparation o f
biddingdocuments, bidevaluations, award o fcontracts, contract monitoring andmanagement. If
any o f the institutions lack capacity to implement the procurement functions, it can obtain the
services from consultants or other implementing Institutions. Each implementing Institution will
send reports to the Ministry o f Education, Higher Education Department. The MOE and each
Institution will have, as a minimum, one procurement staff who i s fully qualified in
procurement.
The Higher Education Department Procurement Unit will provide technical assistance to the
HEIs. Inaddition the first two contracts for each HE1for procurement of goods and consulting
services will be reviewedby the M o E to determine that the institute has the necessary capacity to
handle the procurement functions.
TVET procurement will be handledby the central ministry's Program and Planning Department
with the financial flow for this sub-component through the Special Account B as shown in the
diagram above.
The overall project risk for procurement is high.
C. ProcurementPlan
The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project implementation which
provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan was agreed between the Borrower
and the Project Team on June 3, 2004 and i s available at the Ministry o f Education's Program
and Planning Department. It will also be available in the Project's database and in the Bank's
external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Project Team



                                               - 64 -

annually, or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in
institutional capacity.
The plan does not incorporate the DIF component since it i s demand driven and it is not possible
to determine the procurement packages in advance. However each o f the proposals under the
DIFcomponentwill include aprocurement plan.

D. Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment o f the Implementing Agency has recommended once every six month supervision
missions to visit the field to carry out post review o f procurement actions.
The MOE will conduct and submit to the Bank a procurement review report, prior to the mid
term review o f the project prepared by consultants selected inaccordance with the guidelines for
selection o f consultants and Terms o f Reference incorporated in the Project Implementation
Manual.




                                                 - 65 -

               In
               ;         I

               2
                N


               In
               0i
                B
                r




                In
                f
                7
                -
                N




ajea paAoJddv




                                      I




                             -T       I
                  -x2          -
                   0             0




                           8H



Aj!iuenb                  z




-ON 'JR

a
._
01

._
U
m




      -m 0 0
          m  8  m
             z z
               0

                -             -
                   In
                   0             8




                                            n



                         1
                         ,
                                          3  7
                                             z

                                             7
                                             r



                                             0
                                             R



6U!Jn3OJd      w
               0                  I   8

               c                      b
               a
               0                   L

           -   Y                   y
               r                      m




               0                      0




                                      r
                                      8
                                      W
                                      c
                                      5E??
                                      3
                                      a
                                      e
                                   7



_ON                                -
   'JS    r                 m

aAOJddt/




            I



            I

i-                       +                          so-das-tz

                                                    so-Aew-vz



                                                    90-JdV-6Z




                                                                          I




                             SO-qaj-8Z  sO-qa4-8Z   90-qa4-8Z   o-qaj-ez    SO-qa3-8Z

                                                                0 - w - sc
                                                             8
                                                                     0-
                                                                     ID
                                                                     0

                                                                                         I
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         b
                                                                                         I

                                                 zI     8
                                                        -::          8         8
                                                                          B

                                                                     c         .-8
                                                 aa                   0        a
  pasea aw!l JO tuns dun1
                                                 Y Y




                                                                       s
                                                                       u)

                                                                .-a    E
                                                                 C     P
                                                                IE- eX
                                                                .-meo!
                                                                E .E   "


                                                             Y        ;m




                                       I
         -
         ON 'JS
                          r                       N                        m

                         so-des-cz   so-des-cz                so-das-tz

                                     so-Aew-vz    so-W-vz
                         so-kw-vc    s0-Aew-v t   so-Wv-vc

                                                  90-JdV-62




                                               88    Rm                 0
                                                                  0-
                                                                  0
                                                                  (D    8
                                                                        P (D




pasea aw!lJO wns dun1
                            v)           v)                       m



                             0     1     0                        0




         ._
          C

         La
         'C
         851




                       P

                        90-130-9e     90-130-9L     90-130-9 c       90-130-9L    90-130-9t

                        so-hew-6 e    GO-hew-6c    9o-~ew-6~         ~o-hew-6~    9o-l(ew-6~


                        90-JdV-6Z     SO-JdV-6Z




                        90-JdV-6      90JdV-6                        90-JdV-6


                        90-JeW-OE     90-Jew-OE                      90-JeW-OE

                                                                  I
                        90-4aj-8Z     90-4%-81      90-4aj-8Z        90-4ad-8Z


                                                                     90-Vj-EL


                        90-uw-pt


                        PO-AoN-91     PO-AoN-91     PO-AoN-9t        PO-AoN-91


                        PO-PO-9t      PO-130-91     PO-130-9L        PO-130-9L    PO-$30-91




                                      Po-das-9c
                     8888                                                              0
                            9             9             9                9             9
                            0             0             0                0
                            2             2             2                2             5


                            ._                          L
                                                        2                              .-
                                                                                       z
                                                                                       L


                     (L [L        A       b             ._
                                                                                       a
paseg aw!lJO wns dun1
                            Y             S l           Y




       -
       ON 'JS                       N              m

p

I    I
           I
           d

           I




I
I    II

                           Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis
It has not been possible to carry out a conventional and thorough economic analysis o f the
expansion o f post-secondary education, based on empirical calculation o f rates o f return
calculated from labor market or household surveys, because the data have not been available on
which to perform the analysis. However, a conventional analysis may not be appropriate for at
least two reasons.
First, the Ethiopianhigher education system is forecast to expand quickly with or without IDA'S
intervention. If the system expands as i s likely, then over the life o f the proposed credit the
percentage contributed by IDA to the recurrent cost o f the university system is around 57% for
only four years. This is unlikely to have much impact on the actual expansion o f the sector over
the medium to longterm period o f fifteen years or so.
Second, most o f the proceeds from the proposed loan will fund institutional innovations. While
all funding is fungible, it is likely that these funds are a true net additionality. It is unlikelythat
the Ethiopian government would be able to make comparable                investments in institutional
innovation, inthe absence o f this loan. Thus, even taking fungibility into account, the loan is not
being used to directly support additional enrollment. The institutional development grants are
also buying institutional innovation, because an important conditionality for this component is,
inter alia, the development and utilization of a formula-driven block-grant approach notjust for
the proceeds o fthe loan, but for higher educationfundingingeneral.
For this reason, the impact o f the loan can be analyzed largely interms o f its impact on savings
on a stream o f expenditure whose exogenous upper level is largely a given (not necessarily given
ex-ante, but exogenous to the loan). The expenditure stream could decline if costs per enrollee
receiving a given quality o f education declines.      Alternatively, if cost per enrollee receiving a
given quality o f education declines, more students could enroll or quality could increase and
keep expenditures as per the forecast path.          The notion that there is a rather exogenous
expenditure expansion path that is largely a given provides a very convenient analytical short-
cut.
Data for the TVET component are too scarce to estimate a possible rate o f return and the policy
framework into which the loan will fit i s yet to be fully defined. Our assumptionwill be that the
cost-benefit analysis for the TVET sub-sector would show a similar return .profile if this sub-
sector would undertake reforms similar to what the university sector has initiated and plans to
undertake with the stimulus o f the loan. Ifthey are made, then a similar rate o f return to that o f
the higher education component can be expected, although if the reforms come later, the rate o f
return will be lower-although      it is impossible to state how much lower. Ifthe improvements
are not made, then at this point the rate ofreturn is simply too uncertain to estimate.
Internal Efficiency. The drop-out rate among higher education students has beenbetween 10%
and 15% inrecent years, with the largest losses occurring in the first year o f study (Abebayehu,
1998). This i s reportedly due to difficulties in adjusting to campus life away from home. It is
anticipated that a number o f proposals to be submitted under the DIFwill involve the use o f ICT
to provide remediated and specialized instruction for students having academic difficulties.
Together with anticipated improvements in the quality o f instruction, availability o f textbooks
and other quality related improvements, the dropout-rate is expected to decline over the life o f
the project.



                                                  - 75 -

Institutional Expenditures. Analysis o f how institutions employ the resources provided to them
can help to determine how effectively they focus on their main mission o f teaching andresearch,
and how efficiently the institution is managed. The overall composition of university recurrent
budgets in 2002/2003 is presented in the Table                    below. No major misallocations in the
composition o f university spending are apparent. The share for student welfare i s large, but not
excessively so in comparison with other African countries that provide this benefit to students.
University managers realize that such welfare benefits represent a significant tax on their
budgets, and they acknowledge that the administration o f campus cafeterias is time-consuming.
Inrecognition ofthis, the costs ofstudent food andlodginghavebeenincludedinthe calculation
o f the recently approved graduate tax.

                       Composition of University Recurrent Budgets, 200212003


     Salaries    Student      Education       Supplies
                                               Other                              Capital in
                  -
                  Food         Materials                     SetViCeS Maintenance-recurrent  Grants

      40%          15%           10%             11%           9%        5%         6%        4%

    Source: WorldBank, Public Expenditure Review,POO4, vol. 1

When resources are in short supply, institutions often concentrate them on maintaining staff in
the assumption that they are the core resource for teaching. In doing so, however, they may
deprive staff o f the educational materials, maintenance, and other inputs they need in order to
teach effectively.     In many African countries, the economic crisis of recent years has led
universities to concentrate an unnecessarily highportion o f their budgets on staff remuneration,
sometimes as much as 65% or more. Incontrast, a salary share o f around 40% i s considered to
be a more appropriate reference point. Budgetary analysis carried out during the recent Public
Expenditure Review indicates that Ethiopian universities have spent approximately 40% o f their
budgets on salaries since 2000/2001.              It is noteworthy that the salary share in institutional
budgets has evolved favorably downwards from its 59% share in 1995/96. With most o f the
capital expenditures for expansion already reflected in the ESDP 11, it i s anticipated that the
percentage o f the higher education budget to the overall education budget will not increase, but
may decline slightly inthe coming five years. When the potential impact o f cost-recovery is felt
infive years time, the resources recoveredmaybe appliedto continued expansion ofthe system
without significant additional increases required to the proportional budget allocated to higher
education. The anticipated growth appears to be both affordable and sustainable.
The composition o f public spending on TVET shows an encouraging trend. With the exception
o f Tigrai, the relative share o f wages and salaries i s decreasing inall regions. Between 1999/00
and 2001/02, wages and salaries declined from 67.4% o f the TVET budget to 48.2% and the
proportion spent on education materials increased from 9.8% to 37.3 %. This trend, together
with the emphases placed on practical training in the recently approved TVET Proclamation,
give evidence to the Ministry's commitment to moving towards a more demand driven and
practical skill orientation inTVET programs.
General Comments on the Possible Profitability and SocialNeedfor Overall Expansion.
Ethiopian higher education enrollment has been growing at approximately 15% per year for the
past decade or so, and accelerating intrend inthe last few years. The construction efforts o f the
period 2001-2005 will add, by 2005, approximately 160% to the undergraduate enrollment


                                                        - 76 -

capacity that existed in2000. This rate of growth i s not sustainable over the longer term. Local
and international evidence offers some suggestions on what rate might be fiscally sustainable
and economically and sociallyjustifiable.
In Ethiopia, the rates of return on tertiary education, both private (approximately 27%) and
public (approximately 12%) are reasonably high and, importantly, reasonably close to the rates
of return for both primary and secondary education, at least as o f the last time these rates were
measured (see World Bank 1998). This suggests that as o f the late 1990s or early 2000s, the
outputs of the sector were reasonably balanced between primary, secondary, and tertiary-albeit
balancedat an extremely low level. The implicationis that balanced growthwill tendto keep the
right proportionality of returns. Furthermore, ifmore of the public cost of tertiary education can
be passed on to beneficiaries, it may be possible to expand supply without lowering the social
returns.
According to the EFA-FTI projection exercises, the Gross Enrollment Ratio for secondary
education as a whole would expand fiom approximately 11.6 in 2001 to 15.3 % in 2015, a
change o f 3.7 %. A cross-country regression analysis of the sensitivity of the tertiary gross
enrollment ratio to the lagged (4-year lag) secondary gross enrollment ratio reveals that for every
percentage point increase in the secondary gross enrollment ratio there tends to be a % point
increase in the tertiary ratio. This i s a strong relationship (t = 15).  (The coefficient o f this
relationship decreases to ?4 point if only poorer countries are included in the cross-country
regression.) This suggests that the change in the tertiary gross enrollment ratio ought to be
approximately 1.75 % (around K of 3.7). Since the tertiary gross enrollment ratio currently
stands at 2.6 %, the target by 2018 (given the four-year lag between secondary and tertiary)
should be 4.4%.       Population growing at 2.7%, implies a growth in tertiary enrollment of
approximately 5% (iftertiary adjuststo secondary with a coefficient of ?4 of 6.5%
Thus, a balanced growth approach, together with apolicy of cost recovery, would seem tojustify
a rate o f enrollment expansion of 6% per year. Ethiopia, like many countries, would like to
make further efforts to join the "knowledge economy." A simple indicator o f readiness to join
the knowledge economy is the use of personal computers per 1000 persons. An analysis o f the
use of computers shows that the tertiary gross enrollment ratio i s quite a good correlate o f this
computer indicator, even after controlling for income per capita: the elasticity of computer use
with respect to tertiary enrollment is 0.30 (taken at the mean of both variables), and this is
statistically significant (t-value 4.2).
Analysis of the Loan Basedon Cost-Savings.
As noted above, the analysis of the specific loan attempts to ascertain the likely impact of the
loan and the innovations, reforms, or conditionalities the loan brings, on the exogenous cost
stream o f the Ethiopian higher education sector. For the sake of framing estimates, two broad
reforms or improvements stand as proxies for others that may be generated, since not much is
known at this point as to what exact innovations the proposedloanwill fund.
The first innovation, which is a policy conditionality, is the design and implementation of a
formula-funded approach. I t is proposed that part o f the proceeds o f the loan will partially fund
Institutional Development Grants to be transferred according to the formula funding. The
conditionality o f the first grant transfer proposed for 2005, namely the implementation o f the
Block Grant Disbursement System, and, simultaneously, o f the FormulaFundingapproach, i s an



                                               - 77 -

apposite conditionality. The use o fthe Institutional Development Grant according to the formula
and block grant system thus neatly rewards the achievement o f the benchmark.
The second innovation is the creation and operationalization o f an innovation fund. A key
assumption is that all o f the innovations are cost-saving. It may be that many o f the innovations
will be quality-enhancing for a given cost. But the impact on the savings inthe cost stream, or
on getting more value-for-money out o f a given cost stream, is the same.
It is worth notingtwo importantpoints inthis analysis.
First, tertiary education inEthiopia is currently quite expensive relative to GDP. The following
table shows the cost per university enrollee inthe country economies that grew fastest inthe last
three decades, in the country economies that grew most slowly o f the three decades, and in
Ethiopia. The data for Ethiopia are rounded and approximate.

                 Group of countries           Cost of tertiary enrollee as a
                                                       proportion
                                               of GDP or GNI per capita

            Fastest growing economies                     55.0%

            Slowest growing economies                     265.0%

            Ethiopia                                     1000.0%

                  Source: CalculatedfromEDSTATS data

There would seem to be, prima facie, need for lowering costs in Ethiopia. However, using the
per unit cost o f a tertiary student as a ratio o f per capita GDP loses some meaning ina very poor
country like Ethiopia. Here the denominator o f the ratio is extremely low ($100 per capita). As
a result, even the equally low cost per tertiary student (around $670) -which is one o f the lowest
inAfrica - generates a highly imbalanced ratio which could be used to conclude that there is
need to lower costs. Inreality, the quality o f higher education inEthiopia is already poor and a
lowering o f costs, even if accompanied by some improvements inmanagement efficiency (which
is already better in Ethiopia than in some other African countries), will only produce a further
decline in educational quality. Redistributing some o f the direct costs o f higher education to
government among beneficiaries and the private sector in a sustainable and socially responsible
manner i s perhaps the best way to both expand the system and ensure the maintenance o f some
measure o f quality. Although it is hard to argue that affordable tertiary education i s only cause
and not effect o f fast growth, it is clear that managing to contain costs, but without sacrificing
critical investments in quality, so as to be able to enroll considerable numbers o f students, is at
least partly contributing to the success o f the fast-growing economies.
Second, as in all countries, some universities seem more cost-competitive than others.
Unfortunately in Ethiopia there are, at present, no per-enrollee cost data that hold type o f
specialization or program constant. However, data from other countries suggest that, prior to the
imposition o f a funding formula, there is great variation inper enrollee costs. Over the past three
years in Ethiopia the mean absolute deviation o f per student costs for universities as a whole,
even leaving out Gondar MedicalCollege (which is naturally higher) i s 15% o f the median.



                                                    - 78 -

Inestimating potential returns to the investment, one must make certain assumptions to frame
the analysis.    Post hoc review may find these to be in error, but each would appear to be
reasonable in the current context.       First, it i s assumed that half o f the cost deviation is due to
program differences, and half is due to inefficiency. This i s equivalent to assuming there is 7.5%
"slack" in the system, given the 15% cost variation. Second, we assume that in the first four
years efficiency is improved inthe half o f universities that are above the median inexpenditure,
but that after four years all universities improve efficiency by the same amount. Third, it is
assumed that all improvements are phased inover four years, at 25% increments each year until
reaching loo%, and that the effects o f these improvements do not start to be felt until the third
year o f the loan and are conservative assumptions. Fourth, the loan is assumed to amount to
some $40 million for the higher education sector, or 340 million birr, and it is assumed that its
disbursement i s 15% the first year, then 17.5%, 22.5%, 25% and 20%. Fifth, it i s assumed that
the institutional benefits from the loan are relevant for ten years after the loan ends. Sixth, it is
assumed that the only marginal cost introduced by the loan i s paid by the loan itself. It is
assumed that government expenditure on the project i s shifted from expenditure that would have
taken place anyway, on possibly less productive activities. Lastly, it i s assumed that the amount
o f the loan is sufficient to generate the maximumefficiency gain (7.5%).
The second assumption above is the most important: that the innovations will spread to all
universities.    This would clearly be the case with the funding formula and the efficiency
enhancements driven by the funding formula. But we also assume that cost-saving innovations
(and ideally those that enhance quality as well) discovered via the innovation fund would also
spread to all universities.    The possibility o f spread must not simply be assumed: it must be
assured, or else the rate o f retum to the investment is lower than potentially feasible. This can be
assured in two ways. First, by favoring innovations that have a likelihood o f transferability.
Second, by ensuring that the new higher education support institutions have, as a strong mission,
the duty to force the lateral spread of efficiency-enhancing innovations. Ifthe innovation fund
only supports activities o f relevance to the immediate receiving institutions, then the retum to the
project is much less likely to be profitable. This i s a standard assumption made in calculating
rates o f return to public investment in innovation: innovation should spread, not just enhance
reform and innovation at particular institutions.
The last assumption above is complex andhas implications for how the loan is managed.               First,
we assume that while the maximum efficiency gain is fairly modest, it can be achieved via the
loan because the main constraint is knowledge.              If the constraints are political or policy
problems, then this assumption cannot bejustified. A second aspect o f this complex assumption
i s that we have no explicit, simple, and mechanistic "production function" whereby investments
ininnovationofx birr will producey results interms of efficiency increases. This is unlike the
case o f "producing" enrollment at a given cost, where one can assume a fairly simple functional
relationship between investment and output. This would be the case if the loan was aiming to
simply fund expansion. Butinthe case at handthere is simply an assumption that the y results in
efficiency savings can be produced by the innovation investment. Yet, to make this assumption
a reality, the innovation fund has to be actually managed in such a way as to assure that this
happens. That i s why we have noted that the innovation fund should emphasize innovations that
decrease unit costs, or increase value-for-money, and spread.




                                                    - 79 -

   These assumptions are formally captured in a set of parameters as follows:


             exogenous cost trend of the higher education system(t=O at 2004)
             total size o f loan
             proportiono f the loan going to higher education
             proportion of loandisbursedat time t
             baseline degree ofrecurrent cost variation betweenuniversities, measured as the mean absolutedeviation over the median
             baseline proportion of cost variation assumeddue to inefficiencyrather than programcomponents
             proportion of inefficient (those below the median in costs at the baseline) universities assumedto adopt efficiency-enhancing
             behaviors at time t
             proportion of other universities assumed to adopt efficiency-enhancingbehaviors at time t
             time limit of utility of innovations

   Using those parameters, the internal rate ofretum is calculated as the solution to r inthe usual polynomial

   O=C   T
            i2004 e2004 ('t     -k bt   ' t -Lpdt
        t=l                   (1+ r)'



The assumptions, and the results they drive, are summarized intable below, The result i s an
internal rate of return o f 14%.



           Table 9-1. CostsandBenefitsofthe HigherEducationCapacityBuildingProject


       intervention
               Of the        Recurrentcost of                                           Y O             Savings
                                                              %            Implementationat (million
       (millionbirr)           the university
                              system(million        Implementation
                                                       at inefficient      rest of universities           birr)     Net benefit
                                     birr)              universities

Year

2005                   51                       775                    0%                   0%                    0              -5 1
2006                   60                       860                    0%                   0%                    0              -60
2007                   77                       919                  25%                    0%                    9              -68
2008                   85                       966                   50%                   0%                   18              -67
2009                   68                       998                  75%                    0%                   28              -40
2010                     0                     1029                 100%                    0%                   39               39
2011                     0                     1062                 100%                  25%                    50               50
2012                     0                     1096                 100%                   50%                   62               62
2013                     0                     1131                 100%                   75%                   74               74
2014                     0                     1168                 100%                  100%                   88               88
2015                     0                     1205                 100%                  100%                   90               90
2016                     0                     1244                 100%                  100%                   93               93
2017                     0                     1283                 100%                  100%                   96               96
2018                     0                     1324                 100%                  100%                   99               99
2019                     0                     1367                 100%                  100%                  103              103




                                                                    - 80 -

                               Annex 10: SafeguardPolicy Issues
As noted inthe maintext, becausethis project's physical works will not include construction or
rehabilitation o f buildings and all project supported activities will take place on grounds already
reserved for the universities or TVETs, no activities inthe project require safeguard policies,




                                                - 81 -

                        Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision



                                                Planned                  Actual
PCNreview                                   November, 2003          September26,2003
InitialPID to PIC                           October 15,2003         October 20,2003
InitialISDS to PIC                          January 15,2004          January 22,2004
Amraisal                                    Feb.2-18.2004            Feb.2-18.2004
Negotiations                               April 23-27,2004         June 21-23,2004"
BoardRVP approval                            May 13,2004           September 16,2004**
Planned date o f effectiveness             November 1,2004
Planned date of mid-termreview                March, 2006
Planned closing date                       September 1,2009




Keyinstitutions responsible for preparationofthe project:
        Central Ministryof Education
        EthiopianUniversities (six)
        Ministry o fFinance andEconomic Development
Bank staff and consultantswho worked on the project included:

Name                                        Title                      Unit
Gary Theisen                      Senior Education Specialist        AFTH3
William Saint                      LeadEducation Specialist          AFTH3
GetahunGebru                       Senior Operations Officer         AFTH3
EshetuYimer                        Senior Financial Analyst          AFTQK
SamuelHaile Selassie             Senior Procurement Specialist       AFTPC
Southsavy Nakhavanit                  Program Assistant              AFTH3
EleniAlbejo                             Team Assistant               AFC06
LuisCrouch                        Senior Education Economist         HDNED
Tom Coyle                                 Consultant

Bank funds expendedto date on project preparation:
     1. Bank resources: $230,000
    2. Trust funds: 0
    3. Total: $230,000
Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
     1. Remaining costs to approval: $1,000
    2. Estimatedannual supervision cost: $90,000




                                            - 82 -

                        Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile


1998. Abeyayehu, A. "Problems of Gender Equity in Institutions of Higher Learning in
      Ethiopia." Inh a r e Asgedom et al. (eds.), Quality Education in Ethiopia: Visionsfor
      the 21st Century. Addis Ababa:      Institute for Educational Research, Addis Ababa
     University.
2002. Abebayehu, A. Tekleselassie.      "Cost-Sharing in Higher Education in Ethiopia:
      Demystifyingthe Myth." Discussion paper. Buffalo, NY: Center for Comparative and
      Global Studies inEducation, StateUniversityo fNewYork.
1998. Aredo, D. and Zelalem, Y. "Skilled Labor Migration from Developing Countries: An
      Assessment o f Brain Drain from Ethiopia." In Senait Seyoum and Alemayehu Seyoum
      (eds.), Human ResourcesDevelopment in Ethiopia. Addis Ababa: Ethiopian Economics
      Association.
2002. Blom, Andreas and Hansen, Thomas. "Economic Perspectives of Tertiary Education:
      The Case of Colombia." LCSHD Paper Series No. 75. Washington, D.C.: The World
      Bank.
2002. Budu, Joseph. "Final Report on Strategic Planning Study in Ethiopia."     Consultant's
      report. Addis Ababa: Ministry o f Education.
2003. Chapman, Bruce.     "Income Contingent Loans for Higher Education:        International
      Reform." Draft paper presented at the World Bank. April. Washington, D.C.
2003. Chetty, Dhianaraj. "AnAIDS Toolkit for Tertiary Institutions." Paper presented at the
      Africa regional training conference entitled Improving Tertiary Education in Sub-
      Saharan Africa: Things that Work! heldinAccra, Ghana on September 23-25,2003.
2000. European Development Fund. "Financing Higher Education inEthiopia." Addis Ababa:
      MinistryofEducation.
2003. Franz, J. "Technical and Vocational Education and Training Expenditure and Costs.    "
      Addis Ababa: GTZ.
2003. Government of Ethiopia. Higher Education Proclamation. No. 351/2003. Addis Ababa:
      Negarit Gazeta.
2003. Hayward, FredandNcayiyana, Daniel. A Guide to Strategic Planningfor African Higher
      Education Institutions.   Pretoria, South Africa:     Centre for Higher Education
      Transformation.
2003. Johnstone, Bruce. "Higher Education Finance and Accessibility:       Tuition Fees and
      Student Loans in Sub-Saharan Africa." Paper presented at the Africa regional training
      conference entitled Improving Tertiary Education in Sub-Saharan Africa:    Things that
      Work! heldinAccra, Ghana on September23-25, 2003.
1999. Kastbjerg, Gunnar. "Financing Higher Education in Ethiopia." European Development
      Fund. Addis Ababa: MinistryofEducation.
2003. Ministry of Capacity Building. "National Capacity Building Plan:         2003/2004 -
      2007/2008." Addis Ababa.

                                           - 83 -

2003. Ministry o f Education. "Education Sector Development Programme: Consolidated
     NationalPerformanceReport -2001/02." Addis Ababa: Ministry of Education.
1995. Ministry o f Education. Education Statistics Annual Abstract 1993/94. Addis Ababa:
      EducationManagementInformationSystems.
1996. Ministry o f Education. Education Statistics Annual Abstract 1994/95. Addis Ababa:
      EducationManagementInformationSystems.
1997. Ministry o f Education. Education Statistics Annual Abstract 1995/96. Addis Ababa:
      EducationManagementInformationSystems.
1998. Ministry o f Education. Education Statistics Annual Abstract 1996/97. Addis Ababa:
      EducationManagementInformation Systems.
1999. Ministry o f Education. Education Statistics Annual Abstract 1997/98. Addis Ababa:
     Education ManagementInformation Systems.
2000. Ministry o f Education. Education Statistics Annual Abstract 1998/99. Addis Ababa:
      EducationManagement InformationSystems.
2001. Ministry of Education. Education Statistics Annual Abstract 1999/00. Addis Ababa:
      Education Management InformationSystems.
2001* Ministry of Education. Education Statistics Annual Abstract 2000/01. Addis Ababa:
      EducationManagement InformationSystems.
2002. Ministry of Education. Education Statistics Annual Abstract 2001/02. Addis Ababa:
      EducationManagement Information Systems.
2002. Ministry o f Education.      "Higher Education Capacity Building Program:         Main
      Document." Addis Ababa: Ministryo f Education.
2003. Ministry of Education. Education Statistics Annual Abstract 2002/03. Addis Ababa:
      EducationManagement Information Systems.
2002. Ministry of Finance and Economic Development. Ethiopia: Sustainable Development
      and Poverty Reduction Program.        Addis Ababa:     Federal Democratic Republic of
      Ethiopia.
2003. Mkude, Daniel. "Contracting Non-Academic Services to Private Providers: The Dar es
      Salaam Experience." Paper presented at the Africa regional training conference entitled
      Improving Tertiary Education in Sub-Saharan Africa: Things that Work! held inAccra,
      Ghanaon September 23-25,2003.
2002. Murphy,P., Anzalone, S., Bosch, A. and Moulton, J. Enhancing Learning Opportunities
      in Africa:  Distance Education and Communication and Information Technologies for
      Learning. Africa Region Human Development Working Paper Series.            Washington,
      D.C.: The World Bank.
2001. Nichols, Jane. "Cost Recovery in Ethiopian Higher Education." Addis Ababa: World
      Bank.
2003. Otaala, Bamabas. "Institutional Policies for ManagingAIDS inAfrica." Paperpresented
      at the Africa regional training conference entitled Improving Tertiary Education in Sub-
      Saharan Africa: Things that Work! heldinAccra, Ghanaon September23-25,2003.

                                            - 84 -

2000. Saint, William. Tertiary Distance Education and Technology in Sub-Saharan Africa.
       Education and Technology Technical Note Series, vol. 5, no. 1. Washington, D.C.: The
       World Bank.
2000. Task Force on Higher Education and Society.          Higher Education in Developing
       Countries: Peril and Promise. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank.
2003. Teshome Yizengaw. "Transformations in Higher Education: Experiences with Reform
       andExpansioninthe Ethiopian Higher Education System." Keynote speechpresentedat
       the Africa regional training conference entitled Improving Tertiary Education in Sub-
       Saharan Africa: Things that Work! heldinAccra, Ghana on September23-25,2003.
2003. Till, Graham. Harnessing Distance Learning and ICT for Higher Education in Sub-
       Saharan Africa. UnitedKingdom: BurnhamBusiness College.
2003 UNESCO Institute for Statistics and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
       Development. Financing Education - Investments and Returns: Analysis of the World
       Education Indicators. Paris: UNESCO.
1990 Wagaw, Teshome G. The Development of Higher Education and Social Change: The
       Ethiopian Experience. East Lansing, Michigan, USA: MichiganStateUniversityPress.
2003. Wondimu, Habtamu. "Ethiopia." InTeferra, Damtew and Altbach, Philip (eds.), African
       Higher Education:    An International Reference Handbook.       Bloomington, Indiana:
       University of Indiana Press.
1998. World Bank. Ethiopia: Social Sector Report. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank.
2002. World Bank.       Constructing Knowledge Societies:      New Challenges for Tertiary
       Education. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank.
2003. World Bank.      Public Expenditure Review:     Public Spending in the Social Sectors.
       Washington, D.C.: The World Bank.


                                   TVET REFERENCES
Ethio-German TVET Programme. March2003. Ethiopian TVET QualiJication System, Draft.
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Guder, M., F. Hammerschmidt, D. Moll and Gunnar Specht. 2002. Review of the Reform
Process of the Ethiopian and Vocational Education and Training System (TVET System):
Report of the Finding Mission Team.
Ethio-German Programme for the reform of Technical and Vocational Education and Training
2002. Minutes of Meeting. Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
Ethio-German TVET Programme. 2002 "Federal Technical and Vocational Education and
Training (TVET) Policy". Draft. Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
Ministry of EducatiodEthio-German TVET Programme. February 2003. Financing TVET in
Ethiopia: National Strategy to Raise Resources Availablefor TVET. 3'd Draft. Addis Ababa,
Ethiopia.



                                            - 85 -

Ministry of Capacity Building Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. Ethiopia: Public
Sewice Delivery Capacity Building Program (PSCAP). Concept Document.
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia Ministry o f Capacity Building.           April 2003.
Consolidated Strategic Public Sector Capacity Building Programme, Volume 1. Addis Ababa,
Ethiopia.
Ziderman, Adrian. 2003. "Financing Vocational Training in Sub-SaharanAfrica". The World
Bank, Washington, DC
9THjveYear Plan Education Sector Implementation Plan. November 2002. Draft.
Tilahun, Aleazar. January 2003. Expansion and Cost Sharing on Credit-Basis: Contemporary
Agendas o fthe Higher Education Sector". DiscussionPaper.
Mekelle University: Strategic Plan of 20years. February 2002. 2ndDraft.
Bennett, Nicholas, F. Rosati, E. Sutherland-Addy, and B. Chapman. Ethiopia: Implementation
of cost Sharing Proposals in Higher Education. Report of an Advisory Mission April 20-May 7,
1999.
Ministry of Education, Ethiopian Chamber of Commerce, Ethio-German TVET Programme
Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung. Human Resourcesfor Economic Development: the Role of the Private
Sector in TVET. Report on the Workshop.
Tigray national Regional State. 2000 (December). Technical and Vocational Education and
Training(WET)Strategy. FinalDraft. Mekelle, Ethiopia.
Johanson, Richard K & A. V. Adams. Skills Development in Sub-Saharan Africa.              2003
(February). The World Bank. Washington, DC.
Proposalfor the Review of the School Grantprogram. February 2003.
Grants Operational Manual for the implementation of the Education Quality Improvement
Grants: Education Quality Improvement Grant.
Guinea: Small Grants for School Improvement.
Bennell, Paul and J. Segerstrom. 1998.     Vocational Education and Training in Developing
Countries: Has the World Bank Got it Right? Int.J. Educational Development, Vol. 18, No. 4,
pp. 271-287, 1998.
Intemational Association o fUniversities. Guide to Higher Education in Africa, Zndedition.
Johnstone, Bruce. 2001. "Student Loans in Intemational Perspective: Promises, and Failures,
Myths andpartialTruths". University at Buffalo, NY.
Johnstone, Bruce and Abebayehuy Aemero. 2001. "The Applicability for Developing Countries
o f Income Contingent Loans or Graduate Taxes, with Special Consideration of an Australian
HECS Type Income contingent LoanProgram for Ethiopia". Universityat Buffalo, NY.
Nicholls, Jane. Cost Recovery in Ethiopian Higher Education: Interim Report to the Ministry of
Education. March2001. The World Bank. Washington, DC.




                                            - 8 6 -

Dembach, Andreas andIFOA. Higher Education management in Ethiopia. Presentation.
Ministryof Education. ICTSfor Education. Higher Education management in Ethiopia. 2000.
FinalReport
Strategic issues and Plan of Action. February 2002. Addis Ababa University. Addis Ababa,
Ethiopia.
Budu,Joseph. February 2002. Final Report on Strategic Planning Study in Ethiopia.
Higher Education ReformTask Group. October 2002. "Draft constitution of the Association o f
EthiopianHigherEducation Institutions (AEHEI):volume V. Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
Institute for Intemational Cooperation o f the German Adult Education Association. May 2002.
Non-Formal Basic Education and Community Skill Training as Income Oriented Integrated
Adult Education. IntemalPaperNo. 4 Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
Education Unit Cost Study- Ethiopia. July 2003. Standard Unit Costs and Assessment of the
Costings of the Education Sector Development Program 11-Primary and Secondary Education.
Final Version. Rotterdam, Netherlands
Government-Donors Meetingon RevisedESDP-I1Program Action Plan. June 2002.
Granheim, Marit Ketilsson. SEN and donor Activity Matrix
Ethiopia: Technical and Vocational Education and Trainingfor the Rural Capacity Building and
Market Development Project. July 2003 Draft.




                                               - 87 -

                ?                               r
                 3                              c4
                                                d              km




                 -o-omomor roNocm m m m -o- m c o P l m r * a *
                 o o o o o o moooomm oo o o m o m o o ~ o
                                o             o m o m o o m o
                 " N N N N r N N - N N P l - N r N N r N




                                                                               I
                                                                              00
                                                                     4        00
                                                                     .-EE8
                                                                     E         I




0
r-                                                                   .-0a




                        L




.-alE
#        c
         U


n        .-aE
U
:
al       .-s
         LL


B        2
         c

                                            IFC and MIGA Programfor Ethiopia
                                                   As of August IO, 2004

                                                                               2000 2001       2002 2003


                       IFC approvals (US$m)                                      0.0           25.0*

                       Sector (YO)
                       Foodand agri-business                                      _-             100

                       Investmentinstrument(%)
                       Loan                                                                       60
                       Equity                                                                     40

                       MIGAguarantees(US$m)                                                      0.0


         * Total IFC investmentin Coca-ColaSABCO for five countries:Ethiopia, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania,and Mozambique




                                    Statementof IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                                   As of August 10,2004


                                                                                       Original Gross Commitments
Year                BorrowerIPurpose                                                      Loan        Equity Participant Total


Fullycanceled. terminated, written-off. sold, redeemed, or repaid investments
1965-73             Dire Dawa (Spinning, weaving and finishing)                              2.4          1.4        1.1  4.8
1966                EthiopianPulp (Manuf. of pulp paper andpaperboard)                       0.0          1.9        0.0   1.9
1968                Metahara (Sugar factories and refineries)                                4.9         3.5         0.7  9.0
1989                Red Sea (Crude petroleum and natural gas)                                0.0         7.8         0.0  7.8

Approvals pending commitment

2002                Coca-Cola SABCO (Ethiopia, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania,
                    Mozambique)                                                            15.0         10.0         0.0  25.0


Total gross commitments 11                                                                 22.3         24.6         1.7  48.6
Less: cancellations, terminations, repaymentsand sales                                       7.3        14.6         1.7  23.6
Total commitments now held                                                                 15.0         10.0         0.0  25.0



Source: World Bank.




                                                         - 89 -

                                           Annex 14: Country at a Glance

                                                                                                                                 8116/04


                                                                     Sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                 Saharan         LOW.
                                                       Ethiopia     Africa      income     Developmentdlamond'
2002
Population,mid-year (millions)                              67.2      688         2,495                      Lifeexpectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                           100      450           430
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                              6.5      306         1,072                             T
Average annual growth, 1998-02
Population1%)                                                2.4        2.4         1.9
Laborforce (%)                                               2.2        2 5         2 3    GNI
                                                                                            per
Most recent estimate (latestyear available, 1998-02)                                       capita
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)               44
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                         16        33           30
                                                              42        46           59
Infantmortality(per 7,        rths)                          114       105           81
Child malnutrition(%           under5)                        47                                 Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)            24        58           76
illiteracy(% ofpopulationage 15+)                             58        37           37
Gross primaryenrollment (% ofschool-agepopulationf            62        86           95            ---Ethiopia
    Male                                                      72        92          103                         Low-income group
    Female                                                    51        80           87

KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                 1982      1992      2001         2002
GDP (US$ billions)                                 5.4       10.0       6 5         6 1
Gross domestic investmenUGDP                      13.4        9.2     17.8         20 5
Exportsof goodsand services/GDP                    9.5        4.5     15.1         16 2                           Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                         5 6        3.0       3 1         2 5
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                          6 8        9.6     13.0         12 6

Currentaccount balance/GDP                        -6.8        0.4      -4.8         -7 9
InterestpaymentdGDP                                0.4        0 4       0.9         0 7
Total debt/GDP                                    60.2       93.0     87.5        107 6
Total debt service/exports                        13.8       23.1     178           10 4
Presentvalue of debUGDP                                               44 8
Presentvalue of debuexports                                          284 6
                                                                                                                Indebtedness
                                    1982-92    1992-02     2001      2002       2002-06
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                       1.0       5.5       8.8       2.7          5.4              -.-Ethiopia
GDP per capita                           -2.1       3.1       6.4       0 5          3 1
Exportsof goodsand services               0.0     11.3        7.8     13.1           7 4


                                                                                                                                        c
STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                  1982      1992     2001          2002     Growth of Investmentand GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                       54.4       63.8     47.1          42.3    20I



Industry                                          12.4        7.9       9.9         11.1
    Manufacturing                                   7.6       4.7
Services                                          33.2       28.3     43.0          46.5
Privateconsumption                                79.4       86.9     80.1          78.1
Generalgovernmentconsumption                      15.0       10.1      16.8         19.3
Importsof goodsand services                       17.4       10.7     29.8          34.2


                                               1982-92  1992-02      2001          2002
(average annualgrowth)                                                                      Growth of exports and Imports (%)

Agriculture                                         1.4       2.4      11.5         -2.3      T                                         I
Industry                                           -1.8       6.0       5.0          5.8
    Manufacturing                                  -2.8       6.4       3.9          4.1
Services                                            2.1       8.3       4.7          4.6
Privateconsumption                                  1.8       3.0      14.3         -3.1
Generalgovernment consumption                      -1.1      16.5    -19.6          19.5
Gross domestic investment                           0.2       7.8      15.8         13.3
Importsof goods and services                        1.6       7.3      -0.4         10.0


Note: 2002 data are preliminaryestimates.
* The diamondsshowfour key indicatorsin the country(in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing,the diamondwill
     be incomplete.



                                                                 - 90 -

                                                                                                                EthioDia

PRICES and GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                        1982   1992    2001   2002                                                       I
Domesticprices
/% change)                                                             l5T                                               I
Consumer prices                           7.3  21.0     -5.2   -7.2    10
Implicit GDP deflator                     4.2  15.8     6.3    -7.0        5

                                                                       5l
Government finance                                                         0
(% of GDP, includes cunent grants)                                                 97    98     99       00            02

Current revenue                         17.8   12.6    22.4    22.6  -10
Current budget balance                    0.8   -3.1     3.2    2.3  I
Overall surplusldeficit                  -5.5   -7.6    6.6   -11.3               -GDPdeflator          '-0-CPI          I

TRADE                                                                I,
                                        1982   1992    2001   2002
(US$mi//ions)                                                              Exportand Import levels (US$mill.)
Total exports (fob)                      376    154     463    452     ,...R M-
 Coffee                                  232     81     182     163   1.600
 Leatherand leather products              24       0     41     66    1.4W

 Manufactures                             79     38      86     67    1.200
                                                                      1.000
Total imports (cif)                      848    875    1,557  1,696        800
 Food                                           131     110     209        600
 Fueland energy                                 120     292     268        400

                                                                     I     200
 Capitalgoods                                   322     487     523          0

Exportprice index /1995=100)              81     77      61      53              96   97    98    99     00     01   02

Importprice index (1995=100)              107    94      115    113                     h8 Expo-           Imports
Terms of trade /1995=100)                  76    82       53     47

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                        1982   1992    2001   2002
/US$ millions)                                                             Current account balanceto GDP (Oh)
Exportsof goods and services             512    453     979     983    2 T
Importsof goods and services             946   1,074   1,936  2,073    1

Resourcebalance                         -435   -621    -957  -1,091    0
                                                                       1
Net income                                 -9    -86     -51    -40    2
Net currenttransfers                       73   747     694     653    3
                                                                      4

Current account balance                 -371      40   -314    -478    5
                                                                      -6
Financingitems (net)                     431      39    293     762    7

Changes in net reserves                   -60    -79      22   -285    8
                                                                       9
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold /US$ mi//ionsJ     277     172     337    664
Conversionrate (DEC, loca//US$)           2.1    2.1     8.3    8.5

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                        1982   1992    2001   2002
/US$ millions)                                                             Composition of 2002 debt (US$mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed     3,280 9,341    5,697  6,523
  IBRD                                     48     12       0      0
  IDA                                    302    964    2,151  2,756   I                    F 98G: 66

Total debt service                         76    109     182    108
  iBRD                                      8      8       0      0
  IDA                                       3     13      36     17          E 2.348                            B 2,756

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                          107   886      413
  Officialcreditors                     1,345    184     434    548
  Privatecreditors                         98     80     -10     -4
  Foreigndirect investment                  2      0      20
  Portfolioequity                           0      0       0      0                    D 1.112          C 143

World Bank program
  Commitments                              30    150     202    343        A IBRD                          E Bilateral
  Disbursements                            28    112     455    465        B IDA
                                                                            --       D Other multilateral
                                                                                       -                   F Private
                                                                                                            --
  Principalrepayments                       5     13      22      5        C-IMF                           G Short-term
                                                                                                               ~

  Net flows                               23      99    433     460
  Interest payments                         6      8      14     12
  Nettransfers                             17     92    419     447


Development Economics                                                                                             8116104



                                                    - 91 -

Annex 15: OPERATIONS   MANUAL   (Development Innovation Fund)




    Copy filed separatelyandnot includedwith this document.




                            - 92 -

