Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB335 
Project Name 
Higher Education Capacity Building 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Tertiary education (80%);Vocational training (20%) 
Project ID 
P078692 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA 
Implementing Agency 
The Federal Democratic of Republic of Ethiopia 
Ministry of Education 
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia 
 
Contact Person: Dr. Teshome Yizengaw Alemneh, Vice Minister 
Telephone: (251-1) 553133 
 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [X] S
2
  [] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
September 22, 2003 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
Dec. 20, 2003 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 15, 2004 
 
 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The proposed project directly supports one of the principal components of the borrower’s 
national development and sectoral goals:  the expansion and strengthening of human  capacity to 
lead the transition from an agrarian based economy to a service and production oriented one.  
The government’s human capacity development initiative proposes dramatic, wide-scale efforts 
to redefine managerial and technical roles in both public and private sectors, including 
strengthening the quality and availability of post-secondary education : university level and 
technical vocational education training TVET). 
  
The current sector development plan, Education Support Development Program II (ESDPII), 
which outlines sector vestments and development strategies for the period 2002 – 2005, proposes 
doubling undergraduate enrollment to 30,000, tripling graduate level enrollment to 10,000             
and increasing TVET enrollment to 30,000 and raising full-time undergraduate female 
participation from 17% to 30%.  Before embarking on this expansion, government recognizes the 
need to undertake a revision of the fiscal sustainability of the program and is formulating new 
strategies to strengthen the quality of service delivery and institutional autonomy.  Among the 
key reforms are: 1) creation of two semi-independent policy advisory groups for university 
education– a Quality Assurance Group and a Strategic Policy Institute; 2) a block-grant formula 
for funding combined with institutional incentive packages; 3) strengthened leadership and 
financial management in individual institutions; 4) expansion of facilities, instructional resources 
and implementation of information communication technologies (ICT) to facilitate both 
Page  2
 
 
instruction and management ; and 5) growing reliance on the private sector as an important 
partner. 
The project would support the CAS objective of strengthening human capacity and economic 
transition. 
 
The Bank’s sector work globally has demonstrated the importance of achieving a better balance 
in its education investments across sub-sectors.  Although Ethiopia is aggressively pursuing the 
EFA and MDG targets for basic education, it will not be able to realize those ambitions with less 
than one percent of each age cohort enrolling in university level training.  Bank projects globally, 
and in the Africa region in particular, have shown that investments in higher education have the 
greatest impact when they are part of institution-generated, comprehensive development 
schemes.  TVET investments are most successful when they are clearly demand driven, closely 
linked to private sector investment and when public subsidies are complemented by individual 
investments.  TVET emphasis should be on generic skill training with high levels of 
transferability. 
  
GTZ has been very active in TVET reforms in Ethiopia and the Bank anticipates working closely 
with them to continue and expand technically appropriate skill programs.  The Government of 
Italy and the Government of the Netherlands have been and will be providing modest support to 
university level training and GTZ will continue to be a long-term partner in TVET, having just 
signed a multi-year Memoranda of Understanding with government.  These partners are 
providing valuable technical advice to governments, but Bank resources are needed to carry out 
the costly process of university faculty upgrading, establishing a university net to integrate 
computers electronically, to upgrade financial and personnel management systems and to 
complete facilities upgrading and institutional material purchases.  The Bank is currently 
providing some support for TVET and university support through the ESDP project ending in 
June 2004.  Future support for basic and secondary education will be provided by the Bank 
through a PRSC.  Government has requested Bank assistance for higher education and TVET 
through project funding.  The Ministry has commissioned numerous background studies in post-
secondary education in the past eighteen months and has worked closely with the Bank in project 
identification to examine investment and strategy options.  Those analyses  and 
recommendations are being summarized in an ESW report to be completed shortly.  University 
presidents have been part of that dialogue and the Ministry has formed a team to work with Bank 
staff on project design.  The TVET dialogue has been on-going but is marked by less agreement 
on overall policy direction. 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The Project Development Objective (PDO) is to expand the number of Ethiopian citizens who 
have access to a quality, well-managed post-secondary education.  Key beneficiaries will be 
post-secondary age students who possess the talents and demonstrated competence to enroll in 
advanced levels of education.  All Ethiopian universities will benefit from the project though 
base grant funding and, differentially, through competitive incentive schemes linked to 
innovation and performance.  The support mechanisms for TVET are yet to be worked out, but 
beneficiaries will be urban and rural youth seeking to develop job-relevant skills and employers 
who participate in the program. 
Page  3
 
 
  
At the close of the project, major reform of administrative and financial management of 
universities will be accomplished, institutional autonomy increased, faculty strengthened and 
quality of instruction improved.  TVET training institutions will be more demand driven and the 
quality and relevance of instruction improved.  Enrollments at the undergraduate and graduate 
levels will have increased, 500 faculty will be better trained, and some 150 mangers will have 
skill upgrading.  Students will have access to better learning materials and faculties will have 
been made stronger and more efficient through development of proposals for incentive funds to 
be awarded on a competitive basis. 
 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
Funding for University education and TVET was not included in the PRSC formula because of 
the scale of reform underway in post-secondary education.  A considerable amount of technical 
assistance, international twinning arrangements and experimentation will be required before the 
policies and mechanisms of their implementation are finalized.  TVET is in need of even more 
radical reformulation as government shifts from a supply-driven, public sector financing scheme 
to one that is demand driven with services largely provided by the private sector.  Through a 
traditional project instrument (SIL), with creative incentive schemes built in, it is felt that the 
Bank and its donor partners may have greater leverage and value-added in realizing the PDO’s 
than might be achieved by inclusion in the PRSC.  An APL was considered but the university 
resource requirements were sufficiently large and planning sufficiently well advanced that an 
APL was not thought to be appropriate.  An APL might be appropriate for the TVET if it were 
broken off as a separate project.  However, the design team feels that a traditional investment 
project format provides sufficient flexibility to combine the university and TVET elements into a 
single investment package. 
  
The key project components for each element and their anticipated costs include: 
1)  University $40 ( 80%) 
a)  Admin and management training/facilities --$2 m (4%) 
b)  Faculty development-- $5 m (10%) 
c)  Instructional materials/supplies $10 m-- (20%) 
d)  ICT networking and linkages $3 m-- (6%) 
e)  Block grant support $10 m-- (20%) 
f) 
Institutional Incentive Program-- $5 m (10%) 
g)  Civil works/ rehabilitation--$5m (10%) 
 
2)  TVET $10 m (20%) 
tbd. 
 
The Government of the Netherlands has agreed to support the development of the Quality 
Assurance Group and the Strategy Institute through a grant for TA.  DFID has expressed an 
interest in co-financing through support for TA and foreign training, but amounts have not been 
indicated or agreed upon.  Other co-financing is unlikely except for GTZ’s on-going support for 
TVET. 
Page  4
 
 
 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
[Guideline:  Refer to section 5 of the PCN.  Which safeguard policies might apply to the project 
and in what ways?  What actions might be needed during project preparation to assess 
safeguard issues and prepare to mitigate them?]
 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECEPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
50 
 Total 
50 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Gary L. Theisen 
Title: Sr Education Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-7630 
Fax:  
Email: Gtheisen@worldbank.org
 
