                             Document of

                          The World Bank



                                            Report No: ICR00001285




         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-39840)



                                ON A

                               CREDIT

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 27.3 MILLION

                    (USD 40.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                               TO THE

             FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA

                               FOR A

                 POST SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT



                             May 26, 2010



Human Development Unit
AFCE3
Africa Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 2004)

                        Currency Unit    =    Birr
                        US$1             =    8.6 Birr
                        SDR1             =    US$ 1.46275

                                FISCAL YEAR
                                 July 6-July 7

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AM      Aide Memoire
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DIF     Development Innovation Fund
DOC     DIF Oversight Committee
ESDP    Education Sector Development Program
FM      Financial Management
FMR     Financial Management Report
GER     Gross Enrollment Ratio
GOE     Government of Ethiopia
HEI     Higher Education Institution
HESC    Higher Education Strategy Center
HEPCO   Higher Education Project Coordination Office
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Association
IDG     Institutional Development Grant
MA      Master of Arts
MOE     Ministry of Education
MTR     Mid-Term Review
NPRC    National Pedagogical Resource Center
OP      Operational Manual
PA      Performance Agreement
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
Ph.D.   Doctor of Philosophy
PPD     Planning & Programming Department (Ministry of Education)
PRC     Proposal Review Committee
PSEP    Post Secondary Education Project
SOE     Statement of Expenditure
SSU     System Support Unit
TOR     Terms of Reference
TVET    Technical and Vocational Education and Training
USD     United States Dollar
     Vice President: Obiageli Ezekwesili
   Country Director: Kenichi Ohashi
    Sector Manager: Christopher J. Thomas
Project Team Leader: Rajendra Dhoj Joshi
  ICR Team Leader: Rajendra Joshi
ICR Primary Author: Jacob Bregman
                             Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
                                Post Secondary Education Project




                                                  CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 13
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 17
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 18
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 20
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 21
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results .......................................................................... 23
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 24
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 25
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 33
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 34
  Annex 10: Detailed Project Procurement and Financial Management Performance ... 35
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                       Post Secondary
Country:                Ethiopia                Project Name:
                                                                       Education Project
Project ID:             P078692                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-39840
ICR Date:               05/26/2010              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                       ETHIOPIA
Original Total
                        XDR 27.4M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 14.8M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 14.8M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/26/2003     Effectiveness:          04/04/2005        04/04/2005
Appraisal:            02/03/2004     Restructuring(s):                         12/12/2008
Approval:             09/16/2004     Mid-term Review:        10/12/2006        12/11/2006
                                     Closing:                09/01/2009        09/01/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower                     Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:                Not Applicable
                        Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately         Implementing
Quality of Supervision:                                               Not Applicable
                        Unsatisfactory     Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately         Overall Borrower           Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory     Performance:               Unsatisfactory




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                           No                                             Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           Yes                                            None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                    10                   10
Tertiary education                                                   80                   90
Vocational training                                                  10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for the knowledge economy                                  67                   100
Improving labor markets                                              33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili          Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Kenichi Ohashi                      Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager:            Christopher J. Thomas               Laura Frigenti
Project Team Leader:       Rajendra Dhoj Joshi                 Gary L. Theisen
ICR Team Leader:           Rajendra Dhoj Joshi
ICR Primary Author:        Jacob Bergman


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To improve human resource development capacity at the post secondary education level.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                                 ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target        Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from          Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval             Target       Completion or
                                              documents)             Values       Target Years
                Increase in capacity of universities to support tertiary programs
Indicator 1 :
                                         Number of DIF      Number of
                Number of DIF proposals
                                         proposals          DIF proposals Number of DIF
                submitted and
Value                                    submitted and      submitted and proposals submitted
                successfully implemented
quantitative or                          successfully       successfully and successfully
                = 0;
Qualitative)                             implemented =      implemented = implemented = 187
                Number of IDG awards =
                                         250                227           IDG awards = 22
                0
                                         IDG = 36           IDG = 22
Date achieved 03/23/2005                 09/01/2009         12/12/2008    09/01/2009
Comments        DIF proposals submitted and successfully implemented = 73%; IDG awards =
(incl. %        100%; Reliable data on number of degrees awarded annually not available. This
achievement) indicator dropped during the restructuring.
Indicator 2 : Percentage of undergraduate students completing on time, by gender.
Value
                M= 75                    M = 92             M = 92
quantitative or                                                           N/A
                F =62                    F = 82             F = 82
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/04/2005                 09/01/2009         09/01/2009    09/01/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Data not available.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                 approval                       Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 : Number of pre-accredited and accredited institutions and programs
                                           Pre-accredited                    Pre-accredited
                Pre-accredited             institutions: 40                  institutions: 22
                institutions: 0            Pre-accredited                    Pre-accredited
Value
                Pre-accredited programs: programs: 120                       programs: 35
(quantitative
                0                          Accredited                        Accredited
or Qualitative)
                Accredited institutions: 0 institutions: 40                  institutions: 31
                Accredited programs: 0 Accredited                            Accredited
                                           programs: 120                     programs: 90
Date achieved 01/04/2005                   09/01/2009                        09/01/2009
Comments        The achievement rates for pre-accredited institutions and programs are 55% and
(incl. %        29% respectively, and for accredited institutions and programs are 77% and 75%
achievement) respectively.
                Number of faculty/instructors and university administrators/managers upgraded
Indicator 2 :
                through short-term and degree training with PSEP funds


                                               iii
                                              Faculty/instructors
                                              :                                    Faculty/instructors:
                  Faculty/instructors:        ST=1139; LT=                         ST=556; LT= 164
Value
                  ST= 0; LT= 0                298                                  University
(quantitative
                  University administrators/ University                            administrators/
or Qualitative)
                  managers: ST=0; LT=0 administrators/                             managers: ST=117;
                                              managers: ST=92;                     LT= 52
                                              LT=110
Date achieved     01/04/2005                  09/01/2009                           09/01/2009
                  The achievement rates:
Comments
                  faculty/ instructors: ST = 49%, LT = 55%;
(incl. %
                  university administrators/managers:
achievement)
                  ST = 127%, LT = 47%
Indicator 3 :     Institutional Development Grant Conditions
                                              Graduate tax;
                                                                  Graduate tax; Graduate tax;
Value                                         accreditation;
                                                                  accreditation; accreditation;
(quantitative     Graduate tax                block grants;
                                                                  strategic plans; strategic plans;
or Qualitative)                               strategic plans;
                                                                  EMIS/FMIS EMIS/FMIS
                                              EMIS/FMIS
Date achieved     10/25/2004                  09/01/2009          12/12/2008       09/01/2009
Comments
(incl. %      Block grant trigger deleted during the restructuring. All others triggers met.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                       Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                DO                            IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                   (USD millions)
  1     11/30/2004           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/02/2004           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     12/22/2004           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      0.00
  4     05/16/2005       Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      0.00
  5     12/19/2005          Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                     3.50
  6     12/28/2005       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory               3.50
  7     06/06/2006          Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                     3.50
  8     02/06/2007          Unsatisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory               5.12
  9     06/21/2007       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory               5.78
 10     12/28/2007       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory               7.81
                              Moderately
 11     07/26/2008                                          Unsatisfactory                    11.17
                            Unsatisfactory
 12     08/31/2008           Satisfactory                   Unsatisfactory                    12.79
                              Moderately
 13     03/02/2009                                          Unsatisfactory                    18.48
                            Unsatisfactory
                              Moderately
 14     06/30/2009                                          Unsatisfactory                    20.46
                            Unsatisfactory
 15     09/03/2009            Moderately                    Unsatisfactory                    21.88



                                                   iv
                        Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Overall portfolio restructuring
                                                     to redeploy resources from
                                                     unsatisfactory projects to Global
 12/12/2008       N       S      U           15.87   Food Crisis Response Project.
                                                     TEVT component dropped.
                                                     SDR 9.5m equivalent to
                                                     US$15m cancelled.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.      Education and Training Policy, announced in 1997, was the road map for the
long-term development of the education sector of Ethiopia. Drawing upon this policy the
Government of Ethiopia (GOE) launched Education Sector Development Plan (ESDP) I
from 1997/98 to 2001/02, and ESDP II from 2002/03 to 2004/05. ESDPs aimed at rapid
expansion of the education sector. Access to post-secondary education in Ethiopia had
significantly improved between 1990/91 and 2002/03, when enrollments rose from
around 18,000 to over 100,000. Non-agricultural technical and vocational education and
training (TVET) enrollments also grew from less than 3,000 students in 1995/96 to an
estimated 54,000 in 2002/03, while aggregate enrollments in Grades 1-12 rose at about 9
percent a year between 1992/93 and 2001/02.
2.      Despite improvements in the enrollment across the education sector during the
decade preceding the preparation of the Post Secondary Education Project (PSEP),
significant challenges remained. University and TVET enrollments were only about 0.8
percent and 1.4 percent respectively of the corresponding age cohorts. The upsurge in
primary enrollments was already generating pressure for expansion of secondary
education. In order to accommodate this growth, post-secondary institutions needed
capacity development to produce more teachers, administrators and support staff.
Curricula at both university and TVET levels were generally acknowledged to be in need
of improvement. Faculty numbers and quality also needed to be enhanced. Performance
and accountability measures needed strengthening as well to improve planning and
administration of educational services.
3.      In 2003/04, the Government issued the "Higher Education Proclamation" that
paved the way for granting extensive autonomy to Higher Education Institutions (HEI),
strengthening their accountability and enhancing academic freedom. Staff administration,
including employment, financial administration and procurement, and establishment of
relations with local and international counterparts, were devolved to HEIs.
                                                                                      1
4.      The International Development Association (IDA) was one of the few donors to
fund higher education through the ESDPs at a significant level. IDA funds had been used
to expand university libraries, construct classroom buildings, establish and expand
teaching hospitals, and build laboratories for physical science faculties. As important as
these investments were, they were insufficient to enable Ethiopia to keep pace with the
need for graduates with higher level skills. Government's planned expansion of TVET
involved a ten-fold increase in public TVET over four years at a capital cost of US$210
million for the construction of 71 new TVET facilities and five colleges. It was
imperative that an investment of this magnitude produced individuals with skills that are
relevant to the labor market.


1
 Other donors with significant involvement in higher education were Netherlands and
Germany.



                                            1
5.      The 2003-05 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Ethiopia highlighted human
capacity development as one of its two main pillars, the other being good governance. In
particular, transforming from a predominantly agrarian economy to one more focused on
industry and services. The Higher Education and TVET sub-sectors were to provide the
necessary skilled graduates. In addition, one of the cross-cutting themes in the CAS was
decentralization. As such, increased autonomy, and accountability to standards within
post-secondary institutions were perceived as important areas of focus for future capacity
development.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
6.     The Project Development Objective as stated in the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) is: "The development objective of the project is to increase the human resource
development capacity of Ethiopia at the post-secondary education level." The PDO
statement in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) is consistent with that in the
PAD. The key indicators in the PAD are consistent with those in the DCA except for the
exclusion of the indicator related to the enrollment in the DCA. The key indicators are as
follows:
Within higher education:
       1.      Percentage of age cohort enrolled in: (a) undergraduate programs; (b)
               graduate programs; and (c) TVET programs, all disaggregated by gender;
       2.      Post-graduate enrolment levels disaggregated by gender;
       3.      Percentage of entering students finishing on time, disaggregated by
               gender;
       4.      Number of M.A. and Ph.D. awarded annually, disaggregated by gender;
       5.      Number of institutional administrators and managers upgraded through
               training programs and apprenticeships;
       6.      An estimated 250 comprehensive Innovation Proposals submitted and
               completed satisfactorily (150 - level 1; and 100 - level 2);
       7.      Number of faculty/ instructors upgraded through short-term and degree
               training, disaggregated by gender;
       8.      Number of accredited programs and institutions;
       9.      Benchmark policy triggers completed as scheduled; and
       10.     System Support Units (SSUs) strengthened with 90% of the work defined
               in Annual Plans completed within Work Plan period.
Within TVET:
       1.      Twenty course curricula revised and improved;
       2.      Six regional trade and testing centers established and functioning;
       3.      1,250 institution and department level administrators upgraded through
               short-term and degree training;
       4.      Twenty-five short-term courses/workshops offered;
       5.      Trade certification standards established in five technical fields;



                                            2
       6.     Seven tracer studies and labor market assessments conducted;
       7.     Equipment at TVET teacher training centers upgraded;
       8.     150 teachers and experts trained at M.A./M.Sc. level (80% male and 20%
              female); and
       9.     100 teachers and experts trained at advanced diploma level (80% male and
              20% female).

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
7.       At the request of the GOE, the PSEP's DCA was amended on December 12,
2008, in conjunction with overall portfolio restructuring to redeploy resources from
unsatisfactory projects to the Global Food Crisis Response Project. The PDO was not
revised. The amended DCA reflects: (a) cancelling the TVET Innovation Program
component because very little implementation progress had been reported since the start
of the Project; (b) reducing the scope of the University Component by cancelling some
IDG and DIF sub-projects which were stalled or had not yet started; (c) updating key
indicators for the University Education component; and (d) modifying the Project's
institutional arrangements based on the new structure established after the Project became
effective. The updated performance indicators, as reflected in the DCA Amendment of
December 2008, were as follows:
       1.     Number of pre-accredited and accredited institutions and programs;
       2.     Number of comprehensive DIF proposals submitted and successfully
              implemented, disaggregated by level;
       3.     Number of Master's and Doctoral degrees awarded annually, by gender;
       4.     Number of faculty/ instructors upgraded through short-term and degree
              training by gender;
       5.     Number of university administrators and managers upgraded through
              short-term and degree training by gender, with project funds;
       6.     Percentage of entering undergraduate students finishing on time,
              disaggregated by gender;
       7.     Completion of draft Strategic Plan for System Support Units (SSU);
       8.     Completion of Strategic Development Plan for the participating
              universities;
       9.     Application of cost sharing (graduate tax) to students entering
              undergraduate class;
       10.    Review/revision of system of the block grants; and
       11.    Implementation of Institutional Accreditation System.

8.       The main changes in the updated indicators were as follows: (a) the indicator
related to enrolments were deleted, as the project would not meaningfully influence the
change in enrolments; (b) monitoring of students completing courses on time extended to
undergraduate programs only; (c) addition of the number of pre-accredited programs and
institutions; and (d) streamlining of the definition of benchmark policy triggers.



                                            3
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
9.       The Project was to benefit the following groups under the University Education
component: (a) students, faculty, and administrators and managers at nine public
universities- Addis Ababa, Haramaya (formerly Alemaya), Arba Minch, Bahir Dar,
Gondar, Hawassa (formerly Debub), Jimma, Makele and Adama (formerly Nazareth
College of Technical Teacher Education); (b) three newly established SSUs - the Higher
Education Strategy Center (HESC, formerly the Ethiopian Higher Education Strategy
Institute), Higher Education Quality and Relevance Assurance Agency (HERQA,
formerly the Quality and Relevance Assurance Agency) and National Pedagogical
Resources Center (NPRC); and (c) higher education functions within the MOE. Under
the TVET component, which was cancelled during the project restructuring, the
following groups were to benefit: (a) students, teachers and managers of public TVET
institutions; and (b) TVET functions within the MOE and regional offices.

1.5 Original Components:
10.   Component 1: University Education (US$35 million).                This component
comprised of three sub-components:
       (a) Institutional Development Grants (US$16 million). This subcomponent
           supported basic capital expenses of eligible institutions to supplement the
           Government's financing to universities. The PSEP would provide annual
           allocations of US$4 million beginning from 2004, with each allocation
           triggered by policy benchmarks (DCA, Schedule 4, section 7b; and Annex 6
           PAD) derived from the Higher Education Proclamation. The IDG-linked
           policy triggers were: (i) commencing from FY2004/05, establish a graduate
           tax to entering undergraduate students; (ii) appoint the DIF Area Review
           Panels during 2004/05; (iii) during FY2005/06, approve and implement
           formula for determining block grants for each university; (iv) during
           FY2006/07, implement the institutional accreditation system; (v) during
           FY2007/08, review the cost-sharing scheme and the block grant formula; and
           (vi) have the inter and intra university education information system and
           financial management reporting systems operational in FY2007/08. The
           investment list includes: staff development, management training, pedagogical
           materials, library holdings, instructional equipment, technical assistance,
           visiting lecturers, and information and communications technology.
       (b) Higher Education System Support Units (US$4 million). This subcomponent
           supported the HESC, HERQA, the NPRC and the MOE for capital expenses,
           research, seminars, publications, and technical assistance. The objectives of
           the SSUs were to: (a) facilitate decentralization of university management; (b)
           improve institutional finance mechanisms; (c) increase institutional autonomy
           and foster the development of a valid accreditation and accountability system;
           and (d) improve access to and use of instructional resources.
       (c) Development Innovation Fund (US$15 million). This subcomponent was
           designed as a flexible mechanism to stimulate innovation, promote
           modernization and reward quality-enhancing effort within universities. The


                                            4
          DIF included three windows through which proposals were submitted: (i)
          Window I (US$7.5 million) for undergraduate program proposals; (ii)
          Window II (US$4.5 million) for post-graduate program proposals; and (iii)
          Window III (US$3.0 million) for institutional leadership and management
          proposals. Eligible inputs included graduate training, short-term training,
          distance education, technical assistance, staff exchanges, visiting professors,
          teaching equipment, textbooks, scientific journals, research activities,
          computers, seminars, and institutional linkages.
11.   Component 2: TVET Innovation Program (US$4 million). This component
comprised of the following three subcomponents:
       (a) Professional and Skill Development (US$3 million). This subcomponent
           aimed to support a professional and skill development program that consisted
           of: (i) in-country Master's degree level training in high priority skill areas; (ii)
           advanced diploma programs (one-year overseas study and training); and (iii)
           short-term in-country training in the form of workshops and seminars.
       (b) Monitoring, Evaluation and Research (US$375,000). This subcomponent
           aimed to support MOE and regional offices to undertake studies in particular
           occupational areas to define training needs, shape curricula with more
           accuracy and quality, develop and field test new curricula and assessment
           methodologies, and to validate testing and certification procedures.
       (c) New Program Development (US$425,000). This subcomponent planned to:
           (i) enable the MOE, regional offices and TVET institutions to design and test
           new instructional programs; (ii) develop training curricula for new areas of
           post graduate studies to build the capacity of TVET personnel at policy and
           implementation levels; and (iii) revise the existing middle level training
           curricula to incorporate new service standards and accreditation requirements
           and to ensure that they are compliant with certification norms and
           expectations for learning outcomes.

1.6 Revised Components

12.    TVET Innovation Program component was eliminated from the Project in
December 2008 in course of the project restructuring. And the following changes were
made in the University Education component: (a) dropping the trigger of implementing
block grant funding of universities from the IDG subcomponent. The allocation for this
component was reduced from SDR10.94 million (equivalent to US$16 million) to
SDR5.17 million (equivalent to US$8.3 million) due to the slow progress; and (b) the
DIF allocation was decreased from SDR10.30 million (equivalent to US$15 million) to
SDR9.57 million (equivalent to US$15.40 million), and 32 DIF projects that were not
making satisfactory progress were cancelled.

1.7 Other Significant Changes
13.    After the project restructuring in December 2008, the MOE Higher Education
Projects Coordination Office (HEPCO) assumed greater responsibility for project



                                              5
implementation taking over some responsibilities from the MOE Planning and
Programming Department (PPD).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
14.     Soundness of the background analysis. The preparation of the project was backed
by a solid analytical work. Nevertheless the project preparation Team did not succeed in
clearly identifying key sector issues and then chose the issues to be addressed by the
project. This is reflected in the formulation of a vague PDO. Bulk of the project funds
were allocated to IDG, which implies that supporting reforms was one of the major
objectives of the project. Among IDG triggers are the following three triggers related
with major reforms: implementation of cost sharing, accreditation system and block grant
financing. The PAD contains only sketchy details about these reforms. It does not make a
distinction between pre-accreditation and accreditation though the former was already in
practice for private institutions before the project. Similarly, it does not discuss the
distinction between private and public institutions in terms of accreditation.
15.     The following conclusions were drawn from a review and analysis of lessons
learned from previous Bank-financed tertiary education projects to inform the design of
the project: (a) consultation with institutions and stakeholders is essential for effective
project design and implementation; (b) incentives generate more significant and lasting
reforms than do conditionalities; (c) universities are generally stronger, better endowed
and more capable than other public sector institutions; (d) apply lessons learned from
social investment funds in other countries (on which DIF is patterned); (e) project
objectives need to be scaled to take into account local implementation capacity; and (f)
TVET training works best when it is competitive, flexible and adjustable to changing
output requirements. But the design has not fully used these lessons. Particularly, the
project objectives did not correspond to the local implementation capacity.
16.     Assessment of the project design. The PDO was not specific enough to guide the
project design including the formulation of the results framework. Though cost sharing
was one of the three reforms supported by the project, the results framework did not
contain any indicator that monitors the progress in this area. There are some differences
between the key performance and outcome indicator framework in the main text and
Annex 3 of the PAD. Annex 3 identifies twelve conditions for release of IDG, but these
are not discussed adequately in the PAD. There was also confusion between the PDO,
indicators and activities.
17.     The design team may not have fully used the lessons drawn from the international
experience. For example, assigning a substantial role in DIF coordination to the PPD was
not compatible with the lesson that universities are generally stronger, better endowed
and more capable than other public sector institutions. Similarly, the assumption that the
project employing innovative funding modalities like DIF could be completed in four
years in spite of the low implementation capacity may not be compatible with the lesson
that project objectives need to be scaled to take into account the local implementation
capacity.



                                            6
18.     The original design of the project envisaged financing of US$60 million, which
was reduced to US$40 million, just before the negotiations. Apparently because of the
reduction in the amount of the Credit, the duration of the project was reduced from five
years to four years. Given the project was aimed at changing the culture of universities,
the original duration of five years would have been more appropriate. It also appears that
retaining TVET component in spite of the significant reduction in financing may not have
been a good choice.
19.      While IDG resources were used to fund development activities identified at the
institutional level, the DIF resources were used for activities identified at individual or
group levels. The PAD does not discuss if the activities identified at individual or group
levels would result in institutional transformation. During the implementation it became
evident that in a number of cases individual initiatives did not become shared initiatives
and DIF projects had to be discontinued after the team leader abandoned the project.
20.    The absorption capacity of universities, in terms of the use of IDG and DIF, were
very different, and it depended on their initiative and commitment. While some
universities were able to fully use these funds, others struggled to use it. The project did
not envisage allocating more funds to those universities which had higher absorption
capacity. This was one of the reasons for the slow disbursement.
21.     In retrospect it is clear that the inappropriate implementation arrangement is one
of the main reasons behind the unsatisfactory outcome of the project. The project
employed an implementation arrangement led by the PPD of MOE in spite of the fact that
the project team did not think it was the right approach. This was the outcome of the
project negotiations, which could have been avoided.
22.     Assessment of Risks. The PAD identified three critical risks: (a) multiple
concurrent executions of education projects could lead to implementation delays; (b)
introduction of unfamiliar funding mechanisms through the DIF could require
considerable training and leadership; and (c) institutional weaknesses in procurement
capacity. However, mitigation measures and risk levels were not discussed. Thus it is
not clear whether the project design incorporated counter-measures. Other essential risks
that were not indentified were: (a) insufficient project management and administration
capacity within the MOE and its institutions, combined with high staff turnover; (b) the
lack of integration of PSEP activities with existing institutional systems, thus remaining
tangential to mainstreamed programs and activities; and (c) lack of staff incentives for
MOE and participating universities.

2.2 Implementation
23.    Soon after the effectiveness of the project, the State Minister for Higher
Education, who was actively involved in the design of the project, was replaced. In
addition, there was a significant change in the staffing of the MOE. Because of the
learning curve needed for the new team as well as changed priorities, the project
implementation was affected seriously. The new team was keen to support new
universities, established after the start of the project. The project was not able to come to
an amicable solution with respect to this priority of the new team, and as a result the
MOE ownership of the project was compromised.



                                             7
24.     The poor ownership of the project by the Government persisted almost to the end
of the project. Although the problems with the implementation arrangements were clearly
evident, the project team proved to be helpless to address these problems throughout the
project.
25.     Although the DCA envisaged a Mid-Term Review (MTR) in March 2006, it took
place only in December 2006. The MTR did not, in any appreciable way, address the
problems being faced by the project. Restructuring of the project, which was long
overdue, started in June 2008 and was completed in December 2008; about eight months
before the Closing Date. The key outcomes of the restructuring were the cancellation of
US$15 million, dropping of the TVET component, revision of the key performance
indicators, and assignment of a greater role in project implementation to HEPCO - away
from PPD. The restructuring was too late to have a meaningful impact on the project
implementation.
26.    The delays in establishment of SSUs played a detrimental role in project
implementation. Similarly, reluctance to grant due autonomy to SSUs, at the initial stage,
also hampered project implementation.
27.     Staff involved in implementation of the project expected additional incentives
since the project activities, particularly DIF, were not perceived as a part of their regular
job. High staff turnover, together with the dissatisfaction due to the lack of additional
incentives, hampered project implementation.
28.    "Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP)" conducted in November 2008
concluded that achievement of the PDO was Unlikely.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
29.    The design of monitoring and evaluation system was not satisfactory, and the
PAD did not contain baseline values for the indicators. As the PDO was defined in a
vague way, it is not possible to assess the adequacy of the indicators based on the PDO.
The adequacy of indicators has been assessed here based on the components.
Implementation of the block grants funding to universities and cost sharing (graduate tax)
were two of the three major reforms agendas of the project. Yet there are no indicators
associated with the progress in these areas.
30.     Incentives for accreditation are different for public and privates HEIs. It would
have been better if the indicator for accreditation was segregated by private and public
HEIs. During the restructuring, an indicator for pre-accreditation was added. This
addition does not seem to have value added, as all private HEIs have to get permission
for their operation, which essentially is the pre-accreditation. The project could have
benefitted significantly if the impact of accreditation was assessed.
31.     IDG and DIF were the main interventions of the project, that were aimed at
improving quality and relevance of higher education. There were no indicators that could
have adequately captured the impact of these objectives. It would have been useful to
assess the impact of these interventions.




                                             8
32.    Meaningful monitoring of the performance indicators did not take place. Towards
the end of the project the indicators were revised and baseline established. The indicators
were updated during the preparation of the MOE Project Completion Report.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
33.    Safeguards. The project was classified as category C for the purposes of
environmental assessment. The PSEP's physical works, which were minor, did not
include any resettlement or environmental disruption, nor construction or rehabilitation of
buildings. All project supported activities took place on land already reserved for the
universities.
34.     Fiduciary Compliance. Although in compliance with the Bank's fiduciary
requirements, submission of consolidated Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
acceptable to the Bank was required under the legal covenants of the DCA, quarterly
reports and FMRs were not submitted on a regular and timely basis throughout the life of
the project. During appraisal, the Financial Management (FM) risk was assessed to be
"Substantial." The MOE submitted its first comprehensive FMR in December 2008. The
PSEP suffered from data discrepancy and incompleteness due to the lack of information
from some participating universities. In general, the quality of most FMRs was relatively
poor and at times the Bank was forced to reject some reports. At the close of the project,
the overall project risk was rated to be Substantial and the FM was rated Moderately
Unsatisfactory. Reasons for these ratings were: (a) delays and poor quality of FMRs; (b)
lack of adequate internal audit oversight; (c) low level of disbursements and instances of
ineligible expenditures; (d) weaknesses in budget monitoring; and (e) delays in audit
reporting.

35.    Procurement. Overall monitoring of procurement and reporting was the
responsibility of the MOE. However, the MOE could not provide sufficient and regular
support to the participating universities. It also failed to hire consultants to provide these
services. An international procurement consultant was contracted, but left too early to
have provided adequate technical support. A procurement capacity-building workshop
was organized during the first year of the implementation, but it was not repeated to
address the high staff turnover. The Bank's procurement support was also inadequate,
notably during the early stages of the project implementation.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
36.     No follow-on project has been identified, though higher education would require
further support for enhancing its quality, relevance and financial sustainability. Reforms
supported by the project ­ cost sharing and accreditation ­ are likely to continue, and
there is little risk that physical and human assets created by the project will not be
sustained.




                                              9
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
37.    The PDO was linked to the CAS which supported Ethiopia's ESDP III. The PDO
remains relevant for poverty reduction through economic growth. Improving the quality
of the labor force is seen as one of the keys to raising employment opportunities for
Ethiopia's young population by enhancing quality of education and skills. Improving
linkages between the education and training system and the regional labor market is the
main priority of Bank support. The PSEP design was certainly relevant to the
government's sector plan because it aimed to bring about institutional reform, promote
innovation, and build capacity at the MOE and decentralized (university) levels. The
project rightly aimed to create incentives and accountability mechanisms that would
encourage faculty and administrators to focus on quality, efficiency and relevance.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

38.    Based on the description in Annex 4 of the PAD, the PDO of improving human
resource development capacity at the post-secondary level may be interpreted as
expansion of enrolment and quality enhancement. The indicator related to enrolment
expansion was dropped during the restructuring of the project. Therefore, the
achievement of PDO will be assessed based on the objective of enhancing quality. Annex
4 further elaborates the PDO by stating that the three guiding objectives for the higher
education objectives are: boosting educational quality and relevance; supplementing the
government's budget for higher education till revenues from the graduate tax are colleted;
and encouraging innovation and modernization of teaching and learning.
39.      The project employed twin strategies for enhancement of the quality of higher
education. First, rewarding the sector for undertaking reforms aimed at improving quality
through IDG, and second, providing incentives for innovation through DIF. Accreditation
and graduate tax were two key reforms rewarded by the project. HERQA, one of the
SSUs supported by the project, has been conducting quality audits fairly well on a
sustained basis. This audit established the culture of exposing HEIs, particularly public
ones, to public scrutiny by disclosing audit reports. This is an important outcome
resulting from the project. The target for number of pre-accredited and accredited
institutions/programs was however not achieved.
40.     The ICR team was informed that the MOE had conducted a review of the
graduate tax, but it did not make the report available to IDA. The information received on
the status of the collection of the graduate tax was contradictory. Though implementation
of the graduate tax is an important step in terms of the introduction of cost sharing in
higher education, MOE has not been meaningfully monitoring the progress in the
implementation of the graduate tax.
41.     The project had limited success in terms of supplementing the government
resources during the period of massive expansion of higher education on the following
counts: (a) the bulk of project resources available for the sector was not used; and (b)
there is no basis to support the assumption that the revenues from the graduate tax will
meaningfully substitute for the project resources once they start to be collected.


                                           10
42.     Though little over 70% of the planned DIF proposals were implemented, it
nurtured faculty level initiatives to improve quality of education. The Borrower' Project
Completion Report contains a number of success stories which clearly indicates that
faculty initiatives mattered for improvement of universities. The shift from the culture of
top down initiative to the culture of bottom up initiative, however small it may be, is an
important outcome of the project that is likely to have lasting impact.
43.      Summary of Borrower's Project Completion Report (Annex 7) presents a full list
of project achievements that should contribute to enhancing quality of education. In spite
of all the odds, the project seems to have made significant contribution in strengthening
higher education. Some of the major contributions are as follows:
           ·     The entire range of their curricula, except in law and engineering, was
                 revised.
           ·     Forty nine new postgraduate and undergraduate programs were developed
                 and implemented.
           ·     One hundred ten laboratories, demonstration and experiment sites etc.
                 were developed to improve the teaching-learning process.
           ·     The project financed 350 research projects.
           ·     Hundred and ninety faculty upgraded their qualifications to M.Sc./M.A.
                 (142) and Ph.D (48).

3.3 Efficiency

44.     The financial analysis, in PAD, showed an IRR of 14% for the project, because it
was assumed that innovations financed by the project would result in cost savings.
Financial analysis was not conducted as a part of the ICR, as it was not possible to
calculate the cost savings directly attributable to the project.

3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

45.     The overall outcome has been rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory, as there are
significant shortcomings in the achievements of development objectives. These
shortcomings are as follows:
       ·   The project succeeded in strengthening the quality assurance and accreditation
           system established just before the project by enabling it to conduct quality
           audits of a large number of private and public HEIs. But, HERQA
           significantly fell short of meeting the target for accreditation and pre-
           accreditation. In addition, instead of accrediting institutions/programs, it
           audited them.
       ·   The implementation of the graduate tax started prior to the start of the project.
           Therefore, graduate tax cannot be attributed to the project outcome. The
           project did not succeed in monitoring the progress of the graduate tax.



                                            11
         ·   A substantial part of the allocated funds for IDG and DIF could not be used.
             The impact of IDG and DIF was not accessed.

46.    The Borrowers assessment for the achievement of the project outcomes is
                           2
"Remarkably Satisfactory" . This disconnect may be explained by the fact that while the
Borrower has assessed the outcome in terms of the value of the money spent, whereas the
Bank in terms of the achievement of the PDO.

3.5      Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

47.    Although it is difficult to assess the broader contributions of the PSEP to the
narrowing of the gender gap in the Ethiopian higher education, female-targeted projects
were implemented by three of the nine participating universities. Approximately 50
female students who could not have had the opportunity to attend postgraduate programs
were sponsored under the project (Haramaya -30, Hawassa -19 and Gonder - 1).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

48.     The higher education sector was set for a change following the Higher Education
Proclamation in 2003. One of the main objectives of the Proclamation was institutional
strengthening. The project helped HERQA develop quality assurance and accreditation
system, and the universities to engage in quality audit and strategic planning.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

49.      No significant unintended outcomes observed.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

NA

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Risk Rating: Moderate

50.     The overall risk to sustaining the development outcome is rated as Moderate. The
reversal of the major reforms supported by the project ­ graduate tax and accreditation ­
is unlikely. The institutional strengthening and quality enhancement gained through
strategic planning, accreditation and DIF initiatives are unlikely to be lost. But the
government may not be able to find resources for continuing IDG and DIF activities.




2
    Refer to Annex 7.



                                            12
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

51.    The Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated Moderately
Unsatisfactory. In retrospect the PDO was vaguely stated and overambitious. Indicators
were inadequate to monitor achievement of PDO, and the baseline was not established at
the beginning of the project. Lessons drawn were not fully utilized in the project design.
There is no evidence that there was adequate preparation to support the key reforms:
graduate tax, accreditation and block grants. The preparation team underestimated the
challenges in project implementation.
52.    A "Quality at Entry Assessment (QAE7)" was conducted by the QAG in July
2005. It rated the overall "Quality at Entry" as Satisfactory (except strategic relevance
and implementation arrangements, which were rated Moderately Satisfactory). Bank
inputs and processes were also rated Moderately Satisfactory. The Panel noted that the
PAD did not do justice to the high quality of the PSEP design and background work. It
also found the PDO "too broad" and its "intent not specified enough" by the indicators.
The Operations Manual for the DIF was judged "best practice". The QEA7 panel also
advised to clarify issues surrounding the Government's capacity to implement the IDG
and DIF sub-components.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

53.     Project supervision by the Bank team was rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.
Supervision missions were conducted on a regular basis and Project Implementation
Status Reports (ISRs) were regularly updated. The Bank's Task Team did provide
satisfactory strategic support by bringing international experts (in the areas of higher
education reform, accreditation, labor market issues, and project management) to work
with MOE. Initial Aide-Memoires indicate that procurement and financial management
support provided by the Bank was unsatisfactory. Improved support to strengthen
procurement and FM capacity was provided only after project restructuring towards the
flag end of the project. Though implementation problems were evident since the start of
the project, the Task Team was not able to take timely corrective actions. The MTR was
delayed by about nine months, and when it took place, fell short of taking adequate
measures to improve the implementation. The restructuring, completed nine months
before closure, clearly could not have succeeded in turning the project around.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory



                                           13
54.     The rating for overall Bank performance is Moderately Unsatisfactory. The
Bank should have insisted during project preparation and supervision that: (a) more
detailed work- and action plans needed to be developed; (b) an adequate monitoring and
evaluation of performance framework should have been in place early on; (b) more
intensive capacity-building technical assistance support should have been insisted upon
during the first year of implementation; and (d) a more thorough mitigation of risks (both
identified and those emerging during implementation) should have been undertaken.
During the MTR, the Bank should have insisted on a major restructuring of the project.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

NA

Rating:
(b) Implementing Agency Performance

NA

Rating:

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

55.     In this case the Borrower performance is indistinguishable from the implementing
agency performance. Therefore, only overall Borrower performance is assessed. Overall
Borrower rating is Moderately Unsatisfactory. A major mistake was made when the
capacity of PPD was overestimated and it was assigned the key role for implementation
of the project. Further, the Government did not succeed in strengthening the capacity of
PPD. The difficulty in communication between the PPD and universities was apparent
from the beginning, and it persisted till the end of the project. The Government was not
able to take an action to address this problem even when it was clear that this problem
will have a detrimental effect in the project implementation. The project appeared
abandoned, and it remained with this impression till the Closing Date.

6. Lessons Learned

56.    Compromise should not be made on major issues. The Bank team envisaged
assigning some key responsibilities for implementation of DIF to Ethiopian Institute for
Higher Education Strategy (renamed later as the Higher Education Strategy Center). But
MOE preferred PPD-based implementation of the project. Like-wise, the Bank team was
not able to convince the MOE about the need for establishment of a DIF Coordination
Unit, manned by experts within the PPD. During the negotiations, though the Bank team
was not convinced, it agreed to PPD-based implementation. This proved to be a fatal
mistake for the project.



                                           14
57.      Universities do not like to be guided. Throughout the project period universities
failed to provide reports to MOE on time. Universities enjoy significant autonomy
worldwide. Universities, as a rule, resent frequent reporting to ministry officials on their
activities. They prefer to be monitored on the basis of key outcomes rather than on
details. The design of the project entailed building a supervisor-sub-ordinate relationship
between the PPD and universities, which did not work.

58.     Projects should respond to changes in Borrower's priorities during the
implementation. While PSEP was primarily targeted at enhancing the quality of education
at the existing universities, soon after the beginning of the project, the GOE embarked on
a massive expansion of the higher education sector. The failure of the project in
responding to the changed priority resulted in the loss of the Borrower's ownership, and
as a consequence, unsatisfactory project outcomes. Had the project been able to respond
to the changed priority, the outcomes of the project could have been better.

59.      Projects promoting innovations and initiative of beneficiaries would be more
successful if the allocations to beneficiaries are linked to their performance. The project
did not allocate funds for predefined activities of universities but it allowed them to use
predetermined IDG and DIF resources as per their own choice. As such the absorption
capacity of universities was contingent upon their initative, commitment and capacity. As
the initiative, commitment and capacity of universities differed, allocation of predefined
resources to universities led to underutilization of funds in some universities and unmet
demands in others. 61.         The importance of project readiness should not be
overlooked. PSEP is an innovative project, different from a traditional brick and mortar
type. Such projects require a lot more preparation by virtue of the fact that the Bank does
not have enough experience in such operations, and that deeper local knowledge is
critical for such projects.

60.     Project ambitions need to match with local constraints. There is nothing wrong
in setting ambitious goals. But it is important to acknowledge that always there will be
some binding constraints. Staff turn-over due to poor incentives or political interference,
poor monitoring due to low per diems, and reluctance to use technical assistance are
some of them. Given that most of these constraints have remained unaddressed or
addressed marginally at the best across the portfolio for a long time, project designs need
to be robust enough to operate under such constraints. The issue here is about
acknowledging that the pace of development depends upon the local culture and
capabilities.

61.     Project aimed at transformational changes should be developed with extensive
stakeholder participation. The introduction of formula-based block grant funding for
universities was a radical reform to be supported by the project. Such a radical reform is
difficult to force through without a broad stakeholder buy-in. The consultations that took
place during the preparation of the project, in the form of a couple of meetings with the
management of the university, did not prove to be enough for ensuring this buy-in. As a
consequence, the IDG trigger of the implementation of block grant funding had to be
dropped. If projects are to succeed in supporting the implementation of radical reforms,
the project preparation should be backed by a sustained dialogue on reforms led by


                                            15
nationals of the country. This would be accomplished best when there are committed
country staff and a country-based TTL.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
NA.

(b) Cofinanciers
NA.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
NA.




                                       16
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                         Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
           Components                                    Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                          Appraisal
                                                            millions)
1. U            C
                                           35.20               22.69            64.5
1.1. IDG
                                           16.00                9.93            62.1
1.2. SSU
                                            4.20                1.18            28.1
1.3. DIF
                                           15.00               11.58            77.2
2. TVET C
                                            4.30                0.00            0.0
3. U
                                            1.00                0.00            0.0
            Total Baseline Cost            40.50               22.69            56.0
Physical Contingencies                      0.00                0.00
Price Contingencies                         0.00                0.00
             Total Project Costs           40.50               22.69            56.0
Front-end fee PPF                           0.00                0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                          0.00                0.00
      Total Financing Required             40.50               22.69            56.0


(b) Financing

                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                         Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                       Cofinancing       (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                        millions)    millions)
Borrower                                             0.50         0.00         0.0
International Development
                                                     40.00       22.69        56.0
Association (IDA)
Note: The total actual amount is a historically disbursed amount, and other actual
amounts are prorated values. The actual total may not match with the amount in the
datasheet, which is USD equivalent of the SDR amount for the applicable date of
conversion from SDR to USD.




                                              17
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The PAD does not contain a table on project outputs. The following table has been
compiled identifying the key outputs of the project.

Component 1. University Education

Activity                    Target after    Achievement        Original   Remarks
                            restructuring                      target

Sub-component 1.1:
Institutional Development
Grants

Number of universities      9               9                  9
accessing IDG

Number of IDG awards        27              22                 22

Allocation for IDG, SDR     5.17            5.83               10.94
Million

Number institutions                         31 (335)           40         Figures under
accredited (private)                                                      the parentheses
                                                                          are from the
                                                                          Borrower's
                                                                          Project
                                                                          Completion
                                                                          Report

Number of master's                          90 (921)           120
degree programs
accredited (private)

Number of MA supported                      116 (104           298
for faculty/instructors                     partially
                                            financed)

Number of Ph.D.                             48 (39 partially
supported for                               financed)
faculty/instructors

Number of short term                        556                1139
training for
faculty/instructors




                                            18
Number of long term              117               298
training for
administrators/managers

Number of short term             554               452
training for
administrators/managers

Sub-component 1.2:
System Support Units

Number of SSUs            3      3                 3
established

Sub-component 1.3:
Development Innovation
Fund

Allocation for DIF, SDR   9.57   5.88              10.30
Million

Number of DIF projects    227    187               250
successfully completed

Number of new programs           Undergraduate
started                          ­ 18
                                 Post-graduate ­
                                 22
                                 Distance
                                 education - 22

Number of new                    72
curriculum developed




                                 19
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

N/A. Economic and financial analysis not conducted as the benefit stream is hard to
quantify with meaningful accuracy.




                                           20
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
           Names                            Title                  Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Luis A. Crouch              Consultant                            LCSHS
Getahun Gebru               Sr. Operations Officer                AFTED
Samuel Haile Selassie       Sr. Procurement Specialist            EAPPR
Southsavy V. Nakhavanit     Temporary                             AFTSP
Abdolreza B. Rezaian        Sr. Energy Specialist                 AFTEG
William Saint               Consultant                            HDNED
Gary L. Theisen             Sr. Education Specialist              AFTH3
Eshetu Yimer                Sr. Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
Supervision/ICR
Tafesse Freminatos Abrham   Financial Management Specialist       AFTFM
Tesfaye Ayele               Procurement Specialist                AFTPC
Abiy Demissie Belay         Financial Management Analyst          AFTFM
Marylou R. Bradley          Senior Operations Officer             AFTSP
Halil Dundar                Sr. Education Economist               AFTED
Getahun Gebru               Sr. Operations Officer                AFTED
Fekerte Getachew            Program Assistant                     SARSQ
Samuel Haile Selassie       Senior Procurement Specialist         EAPPR
James Keith Hinchliffe      Lead Education Economist              AFTH3
Deborah Newitter Mikesell   Senior Operations Officer             AFTED
J. Roger Pearson            Consultant                            MNSHD
William Saint               Consultant                            HDNED
Mulat Negash Tegegn         Consultant                            AFTFM
Abiy Admassu Temechew       Procurement Analyst                   AFTPC
Girma Woldetsadik           E T Consultant                        AFTED
Shimeles Worku              Sr. Consultant                        AFTED
Eshetu Yimer                Sr.Financial Management Specialist    AFTFM




                                             21
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                    12                         109.04
  FY04                                    51                         239.60
  FY05                                    41                         120.93
                          Total:         104                         469.57
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                    24                         141.17
  FY06                                    80                         242.95
  FY07                                    55                         218.63
  FY08                                    46                         162.79
  FY09                                    26                           0.00
                          Total:         231                         765.54




                                       22
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
NA.




                                      23
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

NA.




                                   24
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Summary of Project Completion Report (PCR)

Introduction

1.      Ethiopia continues to make strenuous efforts to achieve fast-track comprehensive
development to overcome poverty and achieve a lower-middle income status. Expanding
the access to good quality higher education and building an outcome-based system of
skills formation to contribute directly to social and economic growth are among the key
development efforts. The PSEP was aimed at supporting this specific Ethiopian effort.
Project design took place during 2003-04 and its implementation began in April 2005.
This report summarizes the achievements, challenges and the basic lessons of the project.
   ·   Project Negotiations:                       May 2004
   ·   Board Approval:                             July 2004
   ·   Project Signing:                            January 2005
   ·   Date of Effectiveness:                      April, 2005
   ·   Disbursement Conditions met:                April 2006
   ·   Mid-Term Review:                            December 1-16, 2006
   ·   Completion of Project Restructuring         December 12, 2008
   ·   Project End:                                March 1, 2009
   ·   Project Closing:                            September 1, 2009
   ·   End of Grace Period                         December 31, 2009

Project Development Objective

2.     The Project Development Objective (PDO) was "To improve human development
capacity at the post-secondary education level in Ethiopia."

Project Description

3.     The project was an IDA/WB Specific Investment Loan financed by a Credit of
SDR 27.4 million, USD$40 million equivalent at the time of Board approval.
Restructuring of the project reduced the Credit to SDR 17.9 million (US$25 million
equivalent). The project components consisted of university education and TVET.
Restructuring resulted in the cancellation of SDR 9.5 million (US$15 million equivalent)
including the TVET component.
4.       The university component, aimed at improving human resource capacity of
undergraduate and graduate education, and comprised three sub-components:
Institutional Development Grants, Development Innovation Fund and System Support
Units and MOE. The original allocation of the Credit among the three subcomponents
amounted to US$16 million for DIF, US$15 million for IDG, and US$ 4 million for
SSUs and MOE.
5.    The IDG and SSU approach allowed a more flexible use of funds, while the DIF
earmarked budget would be committed to individual DIF proposals, passing through


                                           25
proposal appraisals, endorsement and approvals within the universities and at the level of
the Ministry as well as finally a No-Objection from the Bank. Both IDG and DIF were
awarded in three rounds. The SSUs and MOE were funded with block grants on
presentation of the operational plans with budgets for each budget year.

Project Design

6.      The Project design covered 13 entities: nine universities, three support units and
MOE. The nine universities were to use the IDG and DIF funds, close to 89% of the
original Credit.
7.       The project design also provided for structures, procedures and policy triggers
(conditionality) for the universities to tap the funds. The DCA required development of
institutional strategic plans and annual work plans as benchmarks to access IDG funds.
The universities had to submit SOEs both to account for the use of the grant and
replenishment of funds. It also required the SSUs and MOE to submit detailed
operational plans as part of the overall annual work plans.
8.      DIF proposals had to pass through hierarchies of appraisals and approvals in each
university and at the level of the Ministry: campus based Proposal Review Committee
(PRC), Area Review Committee (ARC) and the DIF Oversight Committee. The PRC
evaluated Level 1 proposals (with budget of up to US$20,000) and forwarded endorsed
proposals to the academic vice president. ARC reviewed Level 2 proposals (budget range
of USS$20,000 to 150,000) and submitted endorsed proposals to the designated academic
officer. The DOC ensured the appropriateness of proposals in view of the objectives of
higher education.
9.      The DIF consisted of three "windows", namely, undergraduate programs,
graduate programs and institutional leadership and management. Financial resources for
the windows were conceived to be 50%, 30%, and 20% respectively. In practice, this was
too difficult to respect.
10.     The academic vice presidents had to coordinate and lead the project at the
universities. Directors/deputy directors of SSUs had similar responsibilities. The Ministry
had to coordinate the whole project as well as use the funds allocated to it. This meant
essentially that it had to manage flow of information and flow funds, interceding for the
project, the implementers and the Bank.

Implementation: Major Achievements and Challenges

11.     In three rounds, 27 IDG and 259 DIF awards were made. DIF funded awards
based on the funding window consisted of the following: 73% supported innovation in
undergraduate programs, 20% focused on postgraduate programs and only 7% for
leadership and management. In terms of academic disciplines, agriculture took the major
share (31%), followed by engineering and technology (18%), humanities and social
sciences (17%), natural sciences and mathematics (15%), and health sciences (12%). The
restructuring of the project affected 32 DIF projects fully and 34 partially. Affected IDG
projects were 3 fully and 11 partially. The MOE itself cancelled 4 activities from its
annual work plan of 2008/09.


                                            26
12.    The major achievements of the project included human resource development,
physical capacity building, curriculum development and opening of new academic
programs, and others. The following summarizes the achievements:
   x   A total of 190 Academics upgraded their qualifications to M.Sc./M.A. (142) and
       Ph.D. (48);
   x   More than 180 Academics and professionals took educational tours in Africa,
       Asia, and some western countries. The tours were aimed a at benchmarking for
       institutional transformation, to acquire leadership and management experience
       and to improve the quality of the teaching-learning process. Some 310 Academics
       and a large number of students similarly visited industries, universities, various
       organizations, and hospitals within Ethiopia;
   x   About 2,800 Academics and other staff also benefited from a number of capacity
       building trainings largely in Ethiopia and some abroad;
   x   The Project helped the universities to strengthen their physical facilities, and
       focus on their core mission;
   x   The universities reviewed and redeveloped virtually the entire range of their
       curricula, except in law and engineering, which were funded from other sources.
       Over 1,700 Academics participated in curricula review and redevelopment of 72
       fields of study. Through the process, the universities have opened at least 49 new
       postgraduate and undergraduate programs. They also developed educational
       materials and procured books;
   x   The universities established some 110 laboratories, centers, demonstration and
       experiment sites, etc. to improve the teaching-learning process, for research
       undertakings and community services;
   x   The universities undertook about 350 research initiatives; and
   x   The Project enabled the university leaders to benefit from capacity building to
       implement institutional transformation through regular interactions among
       themselves and with MOE and one of the SSUs.

The Challenges

13.      Evidently, the project design conceptually predicated the success of the project on
the efficiency of our universities, and ultimately on the ability of the academic vice
presidents to coordinate implementation. At the same time, it depended on the ability of
the MOE and SSUs. Secondly, the project's procedures were premised on effective
institutions, that is, as effective as the stringent procedural requirements of the Bank
expressed in the DCA. It also assumed stable leaderships of the universities. On the
contrary, our universities required fundamental reforms (institutional transformation)
before they could digest an infusion of funds such as the project funds. Thirdly, the
project design was new to the implementers and therefore required a learning curve of its
own even under the best of institutional circumstance. There was no provision for
piloting before embarking on full-scale implementation. Although not necessarily the
PDO per se, certainly the project design (architecture, scope, procedures, approach and




                                            27
duration) was incompatible with the institutional realities of the universities and the
MOE. These fundamentally conspired against successful implementation.
14.     The fundamental challenge being as it is, it is also right to consider the following
specific challenges that constrained implementation:
   (a) Turnover of staff in the universities disrupted project implementation, both the
       process of project internalization and actual performance. Six of the nine
       universities experienced changes of their academic vice presidents during the
       project period. There were turnovers of PSEP coordinators, resulting in
       inconsistent direction, handover problems, reporting failures and breakdowns in
       communication. There was also staff turnover on the Bank's side, making it hard
       for the new comer to appreciate the difficult context of the project
       implementation.
   (b) Project financial management and reporting at the universities rested on existing
       structures. The MOE on the other hand hired two financial consultants, back in
       2006, but had to be embedded in the existing structure, which was itself overdue
       for reform.
   (c) Inherently, and partly due to staff turnover, there was very limited capacity for
       procurement, at MOE and the universities. The project provided for consultants,
       national and international. Attempts to hire an international consultant proved
       difficult. Hiring and retention of a national consultant also proved tenuous. The
       trainings that were given to build procurement capacity of implementers did help,
       but could not achieve institutional breakthroughs since the status quo required
       institutional transformation rather than mere training.
   (d) The Ministry could not obtain properly crafted submissions of procurement
       proposals and reporting of accurate SOEs on time. . The Bank on its part delayed
       its responses, i.e., delay in offering "No Objection," in replenishment of
       Withdrawal Applications and in transferring budget from IDG to DIF for the
       Third Round proposals. Release of funds from the Special Accounts to
       universities without receiving financial reports (SOEs) from them starved the
       Special Accounts. The shortage of funds in the Special Accounts hampered flow
       of funds to the universities, particularly in the second half the project.
   (e) The character of the project and the institutional capacity of implementers were
       such that the project could not but make patience incumbent on the Bank, and
       persistence, with huffs and puffs, the daily life of the MOE's project office staff.
       In these circumstances, to talk of consequences for non-compliance with project
       guidelines and consequently the loss of opportunity for institutional earning and
       early corrective measures would be academic, although bringing out the issues in
       reports as such should not be considered unnecessary.
   (f) A stronger M&E system and greater supply of professionals to the project office
       could have probably improved performance. However, it is arguable whether this
       could have resulted in more than modest improvement in quantitative
       performance. In fact, a much greater nagging of the university leaders by the
       Ministers than was done could have resulted in far more improved quantitative
       performance. The trouble is there was a limit to how far the scales could be tipped
       in this direction, given the extraordinary circumstances the university leaders


                                             28
          operated in, burdened as they were with institutional transformation, curriculum
          reform, managing academic and student affairs, and presiding over the many
          other mundane duties of their offices, while they experience staff turnovers at the
          same time.
      (g) Conditions for disbursement were met exactly a year after the date of project
          effectiveness. Therefore the project's effective life span was shorter than planned.
          The project's performance must also be measured by shorter yardsticks. There
          were in fact suggestions early on that MOE should request for its extension by
          one more year. The Ministry found it difficult to argue for the extension of an
          admittedly difficult project.
      (h) For some reason the Bank also failed to appreciate the Ministry's request to use
          project funds to finance faculties studying in China, India and Russia as well as
          faculties studying through distance modes, delivered by Indian and South African
          institutions. We had to finance the above expenditures from scarce Ethiopian
          foreign currency earnings, while part of the Credit designed "To improve human
          resource development capacity at the post-secondary education level in Ethiopia"
          remained unutilized.

Lessons Learned

15.      We have no other evidence for the design of the project, but the DCA itself. On
the basis of the evidence and the challenges of the implementation, it would be right to
conclude that the PSEP was ambitiously optimistic. It lacked an adequate reading of the
institutional context and was therefore insufficiently rooted. On the other hand, the
project proves how much good could be done in Ethiopia even in the context of design
limitations and constraining institutional circumstances.
16.      Within this framework, the following lessons could be learned from the project:
         (a) Notwithstanding the limits of general statements and without prejudice to the
             attenuating circumstances, implementation of the PSEP was also constrained
             by inadequate systematic leadership from its immediate top supervisor.
             Projects such as PSEP require a systematic leadership attending also to details.
         (b) It is improbable that we had achieved sufficient understanding and project
             ownership by implementing institutions during project design. The further
             weakness is that we neither appreciated nor addressed ourselves to the issue
             right up to the closing date of the project. Serious weakness in M&E has more
             meaning in this sense than in the frequency of field visits and the
             incompleteness of attempted monitoring visits. M&E, as well as Bank
             Missions and Mid-Term Reviews, should be approached from the quality side
             of the task rather than from its quantitative and routine sides.
         (c) It is critical to recognize that projects such as PSEP that are novel to a given
             country, although probably tried out in other countries, require a good deal of
             investment at the stage of design, including full participation of all who could
             make a difference in its implementation, and must give room for pre-
             implementation that tests and makes subsequent adjustments on the basis of
             the lessons learned. Designs successfully implemented elsewhere require


                                              29
      careful re-considerations in view of the new institutional contexts. The
      necessary time to complete the learning curve must be considered very
      carefully in this regard.
(d)   It is proper that projects such as PSEP be embedded in the recipient
      institutions. How they could be embedded is, however, a matter of
      understanding the existing institutions (therefore the expertise and its modus
      operandi to understand the institutions) rather than the sum of the opinions of
      the recipients and the technical expertise of the Bank for design per Bank
      experience, norms and procedures. In other words, how to organize
      implementation is a function of expertly learning about and from recipient
      institutions as much as it is about transfer of relevant experiences from
      elsewhere in accordance with the norms and procedures of the Bank. A
      careful scrutiny of recipients (implementing institutions) should provide for
      carefully crafted strategies of implementation in a project design. In case this
      was overlooked, the MTR for instance should provide also for a rethinking of
      the project design and its modification to the extent the findings warrant. This
      should be included in the TOR of the MTR. However, if the findings were to
      go beyond the design itself, creating a box and then compelling the Bank and
      the Borrower to operate within the box is a contradiction in terms of
      attainment of the project development objectives.
(e)   It is necessary to have mutual clarity beyond any reasonable doubt, at the
      designing stage, on the project development objective in view of what it is and
      in relation to the subject of its implementation. In the case of PSEP
      implementation there lurked in practice, as a consequence of the deficits in the
      design, the tension whether institutional capacity building via reform or that
      based on existing capacity was being aimed at.
(f)   The idea that capacity building trainings should have been directed towards
      institutions, not individuals may well be true. It may be better stated about the
      PSEP experience however, that such trainings were merely focused on
      technical skills, leaving untouched the affective domains of the participants
      and insufficiently connected, if at all, to the wider picture of what was at
      stake. At the same time, such capacity building trainings should be owned by
      the institutions. These are important lessons for the Ministry, although perhaps
      not for the Bank.
(g)   Implicitly, the project imposed a psychology of patience on the Bank and
      persistence with guarded, in a way, self criticism on MOE. Understandably,
      pushy incidents were not absent after the change of the Bank's front
      personnel. Given the objective circumstances, however, there was everything
      to learn together, which we did not exploit, and nothing to unduly blame each
      other. Yoked together as we were, so to say, by the project we strove to do
      what we should, even though deadlines failed to be met, more frequently than
      occasionally. None of us desired such delays, but the project unfortunately
      had put us in this situation. This is not a lesson one would desire for, but it is a
      good lesson when circumstances rather than human attitudes dictate.




                                        30
Sustainability

17.     The Bank mission, using the Bank's parameters, has qualified the PSEP overall
performance as a whole as "Moderately Unsatisfactory". Given the complexity of the
project, its achievements and the implementation challenges, however, it would be
correct to advance the rival qualification that it was "Remarkably Satisfactory". This is
by way of a statement of facts focusing on what had been achieved in spite of the odds
and appreciating the constrained results rather than basing one's judgment on the
character of the processes and the results in view of the script of the DCA.
18.     There are now very strong signs of awakening in Ethiopian HEIs to live up to
their core mission. This was not a consequence of the project, but the project did
financially contribute to the processes that led to the awakening. The project gains would
be sustained consequently. The paradox is, the PSEP is now absent when the universities
would have required it most, implemented it more successfully, and would have
contributed to its better design. A better designed PSEP would have now helped to speed
up the tempo and enhance the quality of institutional transformation and development of
our universities.

Ratings

1. Outcomes
19.     On the basis of the PDO and considering the significant results of the key
indicators of its achievement, outcomes are rated as satisfactory.

2. Borrower's Performance
20.     The overall implementation progress of the project is rated as "Moderately
Unsatisfactory" primarily because most universities could not fully implement or
complete the IDG or DIF activities by the Closing Date. After restructuring, completed
IDG subprojects numbered 13 out of 22. In terms of volume of disbursement, however, it
did reach 89.17%. The DIF component reached an implementation of 73.70%, while
aggregate budget utilization by the SSUs and MOE reached only 58.88%. The TVET
factor should not also be used to question the position, although the cancellation could
have been done earlier than later.

3. Risk to Development Outcomes
21.    It is rated negligible to low since the achievement will be sustained due to
continuing strong government support and the increasingly conducive institutional
ambiance of the universities for ownership as well as the relevant of the gains.

4. Bank Performance
22.     The Bank's performance rating is related to the extent to which it ensured quality
at entry and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision towards
the achievement of the PDO. It is rated as moderately unsatisfactory. There are concrete


                                           31
examples that the Bank was lagging behind rather than acting promptly to achieve project
execution, which are as follows:

   (a) There were delays by the Bank in its response to withdrawal applications
       (examples: Application Numbers DIF 21, and IDG 29 took 37 days for
       replenishment).
   (b) The delays in offering "No Objection" for ICB Procurement request by the project
       (example: ICB of Mekelle University).
   (c) The unprecedented rejection of the procurement of vehicles for Jimma and Arba-
       Minch universities using IDG funds. It is to be remembered that the Bank had
       notified the MOE that the Bank's review was required only for the first year of
       the IDG proposals (letter from Bank March 31, 2006). The rejection was made,
       even as the MOE sent the IDG projects to the Bank for review, and the Bank
       could have rejected the procurement of the vehicles at the time of the submission.
   (d) The Bank did not accept faculty development activity in the Annual Work plan of
       the Ministry of the year 2008/09. This budget was supposed to support the
       Master's and Ph.D. student tuition and other expenses that the MOE had
       committed to its postgraduate students, whose studies required expenses in
       foreign currency.




                                          32
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

NA




                                    33
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
   1. Post-Secondary Education Project Appraisal Document, Report No.: 28169-ET,
      IDA, World Bank, August 18, 2004.
   2. PSEP Development Credit Agreement, Credit Number 3984-ET, IDA, January 4,
      2005.
   3. Amendment to Development Credit Agreement for the Post-Secondary Education
      Project (Credit No. 3984-ET), IDA letter to the Minister of Finance and Economic
      Development, December 12, 2008, IDA.
   4. Quality Enhancement Review for the PSEP, IDA, January 27, 2004.
   5. William Saint, Note for an Eventual ICR for the Ethiopia Post-Secondary
      Education Project, July 14, 2004.
   6. Seventh Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA7) for Fiscal Year 2004-2005 for the
      PSEP, IDA, July 12, 2005.
   7. Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP-1) for the PSEP, IDA,
      November 3, 2008.
   8. PSEP Aide-Memoires and ICRs, PSEP project files.
   9. Monitoring and Evaluation Report of Post-Secondary Education Project in
      Ethiopia, Liz Reisberg, Laura Rumbley and Teshome Nekatibeb, Addis Ababa,
      2009.
   10. PSEP Completion Summary Report; MOE, Addis Ababa, 2009
   11. Education Sector Development Plan III for 2005/06 ­ 2010/11; Program Action
       Plan, Ministry of Education, Addis Ababa, 2005.
   12. Education Statistics Annual Abstracts (2007-08), Ministry of Education, Addis
       Ababa, 2009.
   13. Achieving better Delivery through Decentralization in Ethiopia, Marito Garcia
       and Andrew Sunil Rajkumar, Africa Human Development Series, Working Paper
       No. 131, World Bank, 2008.




                                          34
Annex 10: Detailed Project Procurement and Financial Management
Performance

Overall procurement performance
1.      The procurement performance of the PSEP is rated Unsatisfactory. The overall
monitoring of procurement functions and consolidation of procurement plans and reports
was the responsibility of the MOE. The Procurement capacity of the MOE was
insufficient and the MOE failed to play a major role in coordination and capacity building
at the level of the universities and SSUs. The Bank's procurement supervision and
follow-up was rated as Unsatisfactory early in the implementation period.
2.      In accordance with the different supervision and implementation support mission
AMs and the FY2007/08 and FY2008/09 Post Procurement Review Reports (PPRs), it
was concluded that the procurement management capacity limitations, especially at the
participating Universities, were critical. At the national level, the Government had
introduced a new Procurement Proclamation in July 2005, and subsequently, following
the Procurement Act, directives and standard bidding documents were introduced. But
the implementation of the regulations and standard procedures were not very effective.
In the universities and SSUs procurement units were not staffed adequately by
procurement-skilled professionals.
3.      Lessons learned from the procurement perspective are:
     (a) When decentralized entities are expected to be responsible for procurement
         planning, implementation and monitoring adequate arrangements, in terms of
         procurement staff assignments and implementation arrangements, should be in
         place before the effectiveness. . And the central entity with overall responsibility
         (in this case the MOE) should ensure adequate training and technical assistance
         for its core staff from the beginning.
     (b) In projects that are implemented in a decentralized environment the Bank should
         consider assigning a full-time procurement specialist in the project team to
         minimize project implementation bottlenecks from the start.
     (c) Procurement support at an early stage of implementation (within the first six
         months) would have maximum impact on project procurement and disbursement
         performance.

Overall Financial Management performance

Key Information on the Project:
Project Name:                    Post Secondary Education Project
Project ID:                      P078692
IDA Credit/Grant No.:            IDA Credit No 3984-ET
Implementing Agency:             Ministry of Education
Effectiveness Date:              April 4, 2005
Closing Date:                    September 1, 2009



                                              35
Application Deadline:              December 31, 2009
Credit/Grant Amount:               SDR 27,400,000.00
Program Duration                   4.5 years
Disbursed Amount:                  SDR 14,773,244.30
Undisbursed balance at closing     SDR 0.00
Cancelled Amount                   SDR 12,626,756
FM Risk Rating at appraisal:                      FM Risk Rating at closing:
    · Inherent Risk                      S           · Inherent Risk                      S
    · Control risk                       M           · Control risk                       S
    · Overall risk                       S           · Overall risk                       S
FM ISR Rating at closing:               MU

4.      During the appraisal, the financial management risk on inherent risk was assessed
to be Substantial and the control risk was assessed to be Moderate. The main strengths
identified during the appraisal were the country's overall budget discipline and
compliance with regulations as well as the familiarity of some MOE planning and
programming department staff with donor financed projects (including IDA.) The main
weakness identified during appraisal was FM staffing (number and quality) in the MOE
and in universities. Throughout the project life, FM supervision missions were
undertaken as per Bank policies3.
5.     FM Risk rating. At project closure, the overall project risk was rated to be
Substantial and the FM was rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory in the ISR. The main
reasons underlying the decision on the rating include: (a) delays and poor quality of
FMRs; (b) the lack of adequate internal audit oversight; (c) the low level of
disbursements and instances of ineligible expenditures; (d) the weaknesses in budget-
monitoring; and (e) delays in submitting audit reports.
6.      Based on IDA supervision missions, the overall FM ISR rating of the project
deteriorated from Moderately Satisfactory to Moderately Unsatisfactory. While the
project's inherent risk remained Substantial throughout the life of the project, the control
risk deteriorated from Moderate to Substantial. The FM supervision missions focused on
the areas of budgeting, accounting, fund flow, internal control, financial reporting and
external audit. Based on the implementation support missions conducted the following
aspects were observed as challenges, strengths and problems on key FM aspects:
    (a) Budgeting: The budget preparation process, notably at HEPCO, was in line with
        the GOE's budget preparation process. Although the budgetary information and
        the utilization thereof were submitted to the MOE upon request, explanations and
        corrective action for variances were not taken (or not documented.) The situation
        was worse at universities' level.
    (b) Accounting. There was a computerized accounting system established in most
        implementation units with varying degrees of capability to use the system. Filing
        and record keeping mechanisms were good. The Financial Management
        Guidelines were distributed to most universities.


3
 Guidelines issued by Financial Management Sector Board on June 30 2001 and revised on October 1
2003, OP/BP10.02, Financial Management manual issued on Nov 2005.


                                                 36
     (c) High staff turn-over. There was high staff turnover over the life of the project,
         but this was most apparent at earlier years of the project. Capacity building
         activities in the form of regular training and regular field visits from the MOE to
         the universities were inadequate.
     (d) Internal control and audits. The overall internal control environment was
         relatively strong especially in terms of payment authorization and segregation of
         duties. However, the internal audit oversight of project activities was not
         satisfactory both at the MOE and at the participating universities. In most cases
         auditors did not review the project activities. If audits were performed (rarely),
         reports were often not produced and submitted to the management. The
         importance of an internal audit oversight was repeatedly highlighted by Bank
         supervision missions.
     (e) Fund flow and disbursement. Generally, the disbursement of the project funds
         was not satisfactory. Of the original SDR 27.4 million SDR 12.6 million was
         cancelled and SDR14.8 million disbursed. At the MTR, in December 2006, only
         11% of the Credit was disbursed. At the initial stages of the project, withdrawal
         applications were not sent to the Bank regularly, but this picked up later in 2008-
         2009.
     (f) Fund flows to universities were also unsatisfactory. Universities were usually
         cash-constrained while performing project activities. They were forced in most
         cases to use other funds' (at times of cash shortages). This was also confirmed
         during supervision visits and from audit reports. Some of the reasons for this
         were: (a) delays in project implementation (especially at earlier years of the
         project); (b) the lack of use of other disbursement methods of the Bank such as
         the "reimbursement" method; (c) delays in settlement of advances sent to
         universities; and (d) the lack of performance-based disbursement to universities.
         Some ineligible expenditures were identified during the project supervision, and
         the GOE was asked to reimburse these expenditures. .
     (g) FM reporting. The project was to provide its FMR within 45 days of each
         quarter. However, there were considerable delays in providing acceptable FMRs
         to the Bank. In general, the quality of most FMRs was relatively poor and at
         times, the Bank was forced to reject some reports.
     (h) Auditing. The Audit Services Corporation was the auditor for the project. The
         first audit report (up to the end of 2006) was delayed. Improved audit reports for
         2007 and 2008 were submitted on time. Auditors gave an unqualified (clean)
         opinion on the project's financial statements and the designated account for all
         past audit years. The final audit report for the period up to December 31, 2009
         was submitted to the Bank.
7.      Lessons learned from the perspective of Financial Management are:
     (a) Regular refresher training courses for financial management procedures and Bank
         requirements in FM reporting and disbursement areas could have helped to
         improve FM and disbursement performance significantly.
     (b) Support for universities by the MOE with "a trouble shooting and a hands-on
         approach" should have been provided from the start of implementation and this


                                             37
         could have helped the universities to better understand detailed routine-technical
         issues.


Final Disbursement Status in SDR
                                                Allocation after
                         Original Allocation    Restructuring         Disbursed
Category Description
Totals                       27,400,000           17,850,600          14,635,339
GOODS for SSUs                1,100,000            1,100,000            12,841
GOODS TVET                     900,000                                     0
Consultancy Services                               1,418,600
for SSUs                      1,630,000                                 22,148
Consultancy Services
for TVET                      1,850,000                                    0
IDG                          10,940,000            5,174,600          6,738,295
DIF                          10,300,000            9,568,800          7,862,055
UNALLOCATED                    680,000              588,60                 0


Final Disbursement Status in USD
                         Original allocation,     Allocation after Restructuring, US$
Historically Disbursed   USD equivalent           equivalent
22,692,682.63            40,000,000               25,000,000




                                                      38
              32°E                                                          36°E                                                                                 40°E                                  42°E                                44°E


                                                                                                                 ERIT REA
                                                                                                                 ERITREA
                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                    Keren                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ET H IOP IA




                                                                                                                                                                                                       e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OF                                            SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS




                                                                                                                                                                                                       d
                       ETHIOPIA                                         To
                                                                                                     Humera
                                                                                                                                                            Adigrat                                                             YEMEN                                           REGION CAPITALS




                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                      Gedaref                                        ek




                                                                                                                 T
            14°N                                                                                                        eze            Axum                                                                                                   14°N                              NATIONAL CAPITAL




                                                                                                                                                                  D
                                                                                                                                                                  D




                                                                                                                                                                                                              e
                                                                                                       T I G R AY




                                                                                                                                                                      en




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                              Mekele




                                                                                                                                                                          ak
                                                                                                                                     Ras Dashen
                                                                                                                                     Terara (4620 m)                                                                                                                            MAIN ROADS




                                                                                                                                                                           ki
                                                                                         Atb




                                                                                                                                                                             il
                                                                                               ara                                                                                                                                                                              RAILROADS
                                                                                                                Gonder




                                                                                                                                                                                 De
                                                                                                                                                                                 De
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                AMHARA                                                A FA R
                                                                                                Lake                                                                                                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                                                                    se
                                                                           Dinder               Tana
            12°N                                                                                                              Debra                                                                                                           12°N
                                                                                                                              Tabor




                                                                                                                                                                                       r
                                                                                                                                                                                       rt
                                                                                                                                                Weldiya
                                                                                                Bahir Dar
                                                                                                                                                                                                              DJIBOUTI
                                                                                                                                                                                                              DJIB
                                                                                                                                                                                     Asayita                                                                                46°E                     48°E
                                                                                                                      ue




                                                                                                                 Bl
                                                                                                                           Nile                                                                                                                                                     n
                                                                                                                                                       Dese
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    o f       A d e
                                                               Abay




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G u l f
                                                                b




                          UD
                        S UD AN




                                                                                                                                                                        Awa
                                                                                                                 Debre
                                                      BENSHANGUL




                                                                                                                                                                         w sh
                                                                                     er



                                                                                                                 Markos
                                                                                  ng




                                                       Asosa
                                                                                                                                  Ethiopian
                                                                                Ha




            10°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10°N
                                                                                                                                   Plateau                                             DIRE DAWA
                                                                                                                                                                                               Dire Dawa
                                                                                Didesa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Harer                                 Hargeysa

                                                                 Gimbi                    Nekemte             ADDIS ABABA                     ADDIS                                     HARARI          Jijiga
                                                                                                                                              ABABA                     Awash                                                                                                          OMAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S OM AL I A
                                                                                                                                                        Nazret                            R
                                           Baro                                                                                                                                                                                                   Aware




                                                                                                                                                                                           am
                                                                                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                       Welkite                                                                                          Degeh Bur
                                                                                                                                                            O R O M I YA




                                                                                                                                                                                              is
                                                                         Gore
                                                 Gambela
            8°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Domo                    8°N
                                   GAMBELA
                                                                                                                                                      y
                                                                                                                                            Asela
                                                                                                                                                    e

                                          Ak
                                                                                                                                                            abe Shebele
                                                                                                                                                l l



                                             o                                                       Jima                  Hosaina
                                                                                                                                                       W



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Oga d e n
                                             bo




                                                                                                                                              a




                                                                                         Bonga
                                                                                                                                            V




                                                                                                                                        Shashemene
                                                                                                                                                                      Goba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SOMALI                               Warder
                                                                                                              Sodo      Awasa                         Dodola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kebri Dehar
                                                                                                                                      f t




                                                                                                                        Wendo
                                                             SOUTHERN NATIONS,
                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Imi
                                                                                                                                  R i




                                                               NATIONALITES                                                                                                              ab
                                                                                                                                                                                            e Ge
                                                                                                                                                                                                   t
            6°N
                                                                AND PEOPLES                                                                                                                    e
                                                                                                                                                                                               sr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Wa                                                                                    6°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                ro                         be
                                                                                                                              t




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Shebe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   le
                                                                                                                          e a




                   0   50    100   150    200 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                  Genale
                                                                                                                      G r




                                                                                                                                                    Negele
                   0        50      100          150 Miles                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ferfer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                  Yavello                      Dawa                                                                                                Mogadishu


                                                                                                                                                                                                           Dolo
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Odo                   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33405 R1
            4°N
                                                                Lake                                                                 Mega                                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                             Turkana                                                                                                                                                             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IN DIAN
JUNE 2007




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                    Moyale
                       UGANDA                                                                    KENYA                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    O CE AN
              32°E                        34°E                              36°E                                       38°E                                      40°E        Wajir                     42°E                                44°E                             46°E                     48°E
                                                                                                                                     Marsabit                                                                  Mogadishu
