CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 558 YAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 20, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 558 YAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 20, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1975, between the YEMEN ARAB
REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower intends to contract from the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund) a loan (hereinafter
called the Kuwait Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to five million dollars
($5,000,000) to assist in the financing of the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and the Kuwait Fund; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "Authority" means the Highway Authority
established under the Borrower's Decree No. 16 of the year 1972.


﻿4
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million dollars ($9,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Associat,on shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project shall be awarded
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 15
and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing
July 15, 1985, and ending January 15, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on January 15, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿5
ARTICLE IH
Execution of the Project
Section 3.0 1. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Authority
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial,
administrative and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the supervision of the
construction of the road described under Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for th. Project
until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause the Authority to
furnish, to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause the Authority to maintain,
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish, and shall cause
the Authority to furnish, to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿6
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out of Part A of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause the road included under Part A of
the Project to be constructed in accordance with the design standards set forth
in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause the Authority to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of the Authority.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, with the assistance of the consultants
provided under Part B of the Project, establish, not later than one year after the
Effective Date, or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, highway
design standards satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) cause the Authority to prepare and
furnish to the Association for its comments, not later than eight months after the
Effective Date or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, a work
program for the Authority for a period of not less than three years after the
Effective Date; (ii) cause the Authority to furnish to the Association for its
comments in each year during the implementation of said program, the proposed
work program for the succeeding year together with the budgetary allocations
proposed therefor; and (iii) take, or cause to be taken, promptly after the
preparation of said program, all measures (including but not limited to the provision
of funds) as shall be necessary or appropriate for the implementation of said
program.
Section 4.04. Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall provide
the Authority with funds adequate to cover: (i) the cost of highway administration;
and (ii) the cost of road improvement works ordered by the Borrower and the
cost of road maintenance.
Section 4.05. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
measures referred to under Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.


﻿7
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i)        the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the
Kuwait Fund Loan shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement, or
(ii)       such Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the agreed
maturity thereof.
(b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes
to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i)        such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such Agreement, and
(ii)       adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in
paragraph (a)(ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Kuwait Fund Loan
Agreement shall have been signed by the Borrower and the Kuwait Fund.
Section 6.02. The date October 17, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿8
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01 and 4.04
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Development of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Central Planning Organization
P. 0. Box 175
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:
CENPLAN
Sana'a
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /s / Ahmad Zabarah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Willi A. Wapenhans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                   6,770,000           54%
(2)  Consultants'                    420,000           100% of foreign
services for                                      expenditures
supervision of
construction
(3)  Technical assis-                860,000           100% of foreign
tance under Part B                                expenditures
of the Project
(4)  Unallocated                     950,000
TOTAL        9,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods or services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency,
of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds


﻿11
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expendiL.res prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding  the allocation  of an   amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A.    Road Construction:
The construction of the Taiz-Km 64 road.
Part B.     Technical Assistance:
The provision of about 120 man-months of consultant services to assist
the Authority in the planning, programing and budgeting of road
construction and maintenance, the establishment of design standards,
the collection of data, the preparation of traffic regulations, the
administration, accounting, organization and quality control of works,
the administration of contracts, the establishment of appropriate
workshops procedure and the training of the staff of the Authority.
Part A of the Project is expected to be completed by September 1977,
and Part B thereof is expected to be completed by February 1978.


﻿13
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Design Standards for Taiz-Km 64 Road
Terrain
Design Elements                  Unit       Flat      Hilly    Mountainous
Design speed                           kph       100        65        40
Width of pavement                       m          7         7         7
Width of shoulders                      m          2         1         1
Minimum horizontal radius               m       400        150        50
Maximum gradient                        %          4         7         9
Minimum stopping sight distance         m        170        85        40
Pavement type                              Double bituminous surface treatment
Structures                               Design loads according to BS 153 HA


﻿14
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
The road included in Part A of the Project shall be tendered as one bidding
section and the contract shall be let under procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences for Domestic
Con tractors
With respect to the contract for civil works included under Category 1 of
the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Borrower may grant a
maryin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Applicants for such preference shall be required to prequalify as
provided in Part 2.2 of the Guidelines and shall be asked to provide, as part of
the information for qualification, such information, including details of ownership,
as shall be required to determine whether, according to the classification established
by the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of
firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall clearly
indicate the preference and the method that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce


﻿15
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under Part B
above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for
its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association
shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to the contract for civil works to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
is         before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the
bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the


﻿16
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.


