Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17244
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
(LOAN 2925-UNI)
December 19,1997
Water and Urban Group 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =            Naira
1987 US$1          =            .5.645
1988            :               6.848
1989               =            10.655
1990                            9.363
1991               =            13.133
1992               =           20.837
1993               =           37.260
1994               =           62.308
1995               =           84.321
1996               -           82.095
1997               =           75.268
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYmS
CBN                Central Bank of Nigeria
FMBN               Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria
FMF                Federal Ministry of Finance
FMWH               Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
IBRD               Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
IDF                Infrastructure Development Fund
LG                 Local Government
NMB                Nigerian Merchant Bank
NNPC               Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation
O&M                Operation and Maintenance
PFI                Participating Financial Intermediary
PIU                Project Implementation Unit
PSP                Private Sector Participation
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SPO                Standing Payment Order
Vice President: Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director:    Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager: Letitia A. Obeng
Task Manager: Alan Carroll



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS                                      ii
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                                     iv
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED                              iv
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                     1
PROJECT BACKGROUND                                                          I
STATEMENT AND ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES                             1
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                                         6
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                                     9
BANK PERFORMANCE                                                           9
BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                                       10
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                                                      13
FUTURE OPERATION                                                           14
KEY LESSONS LEARNED                                                        14
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES                                                  17
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Cost
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table I1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDIX A: BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR
APPENDIX B: BORROWER'S EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
LOAN 2925-UNI
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Infrastructure
Development Fund Project (IDF) in Nigeria, for which Loan 2925-UNI in the amount of
US$69.5 million was approved on March 29, 1988 and became effective on May 29,
1990.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1997, 30 months after the original closing date of
December 31, 1994. On January 1, 1996 US$7.5 million of the loan was canceled. As of
the date of this ICR, US$60.68 million had been disbursed.
Data collection and drafting of the ICR were carried out by a team composed of
Jonadab Metibaiye (Civil Engineer, World Bank Resident Mission, Abuja), Oluwole
Komolafe (Consultant Financial Analyst/Economist), and David Garnvwa (Consultant
Urban Planner). The ICR was finalized by Alan Carroll (Senior Urban Development
Specialist, AFTU2). It was reviewed by Jerome Chevallier (Acting Country Director,
AFC12 and Manager, Operations Support, AFTS3).
The Federal Ministry of Works and Housing (FMWH) submitted comments on
the draft ICR and prepared its own project evaluation report. These appear in Appendices
A and B, respectively. FMWH's conclusions about the project's outcome and lessons are
similar to those of the World Bank. FMWH takes issue with the Bank's view of its
(FMWH's) performance, pointing to its successful management of investment
programming studies and its issuance of a National Urban Policy. FMWH also feels that
the Bank exercised excessive control over project supervision, especially procurement.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
LOAN 2925-UNI
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Infrastructure Development Fund (IDF) project was the fourth urban
infrastructure project supported by the World Bank in Nigeria. The prior projects
covered sites and services developments for lower income households (Bauchi State 1977
and Imo State 1986) and solid waste and drainage (Lagos State 1985).
2.    The IDF loan was signed on August 4, 1989 and became effective on May 29,
1990. The IBRD provided a loan of US$69.5 million, of which US$36.5 million was
allocated to pre-appraised sub-projects in three States, US$26.7 million to sub-projects to
be identified and appraised during project implementation in other States, and US$5.3
million to technical assistance through the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
(FMWH).
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
3.    The primary objective of the project was to initiate the establishment of a
mechanism for financing urban infrastructure using selected merchant banks to identify,
appraise, supervise and cofinance sub-projects executed by the States. This was referred
to in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) as a "wholesaling mechanism".  The
implementation of the IDF was intended to help States (a) to manage, maintain and
consolidate existing urban infrastructure and services, (b) to improve financial
management and resource mobilization, and (c) to improve infrastructure investment
planning and programming.
4.    The project included: (a) a line of credit to five selected Nigerian merchant banks
to finance pre-appraised infrastructure sub-projects in Benue, Gongola and Ondo States
and future merchant bank-appraised State infrastructure sub-projects; (b) funding for
FMWH to implement (i) training of merchant banks and States in infrastructure project
selection, appraisal and supervision; (ii) consultant services to undertake performance
audits and studies of IDF Project Guidelines; (iii) training and studies to assist FMWH to
monitor and post evaluate infrastructure projects and programs; (iv) training and studies
to assist States to prioritize infrastructure investments; (v) studies to restructure the
Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN); (vi) studies to prepare future projects; and
(c) vehicles and equipment for IDF support activities.



- ii -
5.    The on-lending arrangement was originally structured such that IBRD loan funds-
-equivalent to 75 percent of the cost of the sub-projects--were to be channeled to States
through the merchant banks, known as Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs). The
PFIs were to make financial contributions of 10 percent of the sub-project costs and were
to bear the credit risk on the portion of the loan on-lent through them and on their own
exposure to the project. The States were to contribute 15 percent of the costs of the sub-
projects from their own resources.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
Financial Objectives
6.    The establishment of the IDF mechanism reflected a broad conception of the
financial objectives of the project, which included: (a) to monitor and improve the
creditworthiness of State Governments, (b) to develop a relationship between State
governments and the Nigerian capital market, and (c) to help States improve their fiscal
revenue base, thereby moving urban services toward financial sustainability. These
objectives appeared to be well founded, achievable and relevant to the realities of the
sector at the time they were formulated. The PFIs, which were found to be capable and
well managed at the time of appraisal, proved during project implementation not to be
effective institutions for urban infrastructure financing.
7.   In the end, the wholesaling mechanism for infrastructure financing was not
established. State governments did not become more creditworthy, and the transparency
of State fiscal affairs did not improve. Soon after Board approval, the Nigerian banking
system, including the merchant banks, went into crisis, eliminating any possibility of
developing a role for the capital market in public infrastructure financing.
8.    Although the on-lending sequence and terms described above were agreed at
negotiations, in which all parties were represented, the PFIs subsequently refused to
accept the credit risk of funds on-lent to the States and would not enter into subsidiary
loan agreements, which were a condition of IBRD loan effectiveness. The major causes
were the rapid deterioration of the Nigerian economy and the emergence of the banking
sector crisis, both soon after Board presentation.
9.   In response to the failure of the original financing arrangements, the lending and
legal agreements were modified to channel the loan funds directly to the State
governments, thus making the States the primary obligors on the loan with the
responsibility of bearing the credit and foreign exchange risks. States retained the option
of borrowing 10 percent of project costs from the PFIs at the market rate. However, the
States did not do so, choosing instead to increase their counterpart fund contributions
from 15 percent to 25 percent. The PFIs were thus relieved of the responsibility of
making financial contributions to the project.



- iii -
Institutional Objectives
10.   Delivery of urban services: The project was designed to reinforce infrastructure
provision through Nigeria's mainstream public and private institutions. The country's
severe macroeconomic and governance problems, which started soon after Board
approval and continued during the project's entire implementation period, defeated
attempts to improve the efficiency and sustainability of infrastructure provision.
11.   State public agencies: To the extent that staff of the State Ministries of Finance,
Works, and others involved in the project gained on-the-job training and experience in
areas such as project administration, works supervision, property taxation, solid waste
management, and vehicle and equipment maintenance, these entities have been
strengthened. New tenement rating and collection agencies were created in most of the
States. However, little or no formal training of State personnel took place.
12.   Merchant banks:  While some PFIs were able to acquire experience in the
administration of externally funded projects, they did not develop the capacity to identify
and appraise public infrastructure investments.
13.   FMWH: FMWH did not provide pro-active leadership or coordination. It failed
to utilize most of the funds allocated to it for implementing training programs.
14.   Nigerian consultants and contractors: In some cases their capacity was enhanced
by working within the more disciplined technical and financial controls of a World Bank-
assisted project.
Physical Objectives
15.   Although the actual cost of the State sub-projects totaled US$67.3 million
compared with the appraisal estimate of US$91.0 million, the project can be said to have
achieved most of its construction objectives. In addition to covering the three Phase I
States, the project extended to eight other States in Phase II. A total of 92 km. of urban
roads and 122 km. of drainage were upgraded or rehabilitated in eight states. The project
financed the laying of 28 km. of water transmission mains and 91 km. of water
distribution pipelines in three states. The numbers of sub-projects implemented by type
were: 23 road and drainage, 12 water supply (including a major system in Edo State),
four solid waste collection, six electricity distribution, one industrial estate, one sites and
services project for housing, infrastructure for one major regional market, infrastructure
for a government housing estate, and infrastructure for a transport terminal.
16.   The loan was extended three times from its original closing date of December 31,
1994 to the final closing on June 30, 1997, mainly to allow ongoing works to be
completed. Almost all the works suffered from construction delays due to poor
performance of contractors and consultants, governance problems, turnover of State
administrations, and weak management by some States and merchant banks. At loan



- iv -
closing, nine sub-projects remained between 90 and 98 percent completed. One roads
and drains sub-project in Kogi State was only 80 percent completed at loan closing.
17.   Despite the extent of the works constructed, they generally have not produced a
substantial improvement in the quality of urban services because (a) in many cases the
investments were too limited in scope and too widely scattered to make an impact and (b)
operation and maintenance of the facilities has been inadequate or non-existent.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
18.   The project failed to establish a sustainable financing mechanism for urban
infrastructure. As explained above, this was due mostly to macroeconomic and
governance factors not subject to the project's control. However, in hindsight, the
project's design did not adequately take into account some of these major risk factors
which were foreseeable.
19.   The sustainability of the physical improvements financed through the project is
unlikely. None of the States presented a project sustainability plan by the loan closing
date. The original design assumed that technical assistance would produce increased
general revenues and tariffs for operation and maintenance. In reality, tenement rate
(property tax) collections in Benue and Gongola States (now Adamawa and Taraba)
during 1992 to 1997 were less than 10 percent of projected levels. Though the project
helped establish property rating and valuation systems in Bomo, Ondo, Kogi and Yobe
States, collections had not commenced at loan closing. Tariff increases for water and
waste management were small or non-existent. The main factors behind this failure were:
*   Absence of political incentives to raise taxes and tariffs.
*   Lack of confidence by the public that higher taxes and tariffs would result in
better services.
*   Inadequate involvement of users in investment decisions.
*   Marginalization of Local Governments in the current governance system,
and their inability to take over operation and maintenance of facilities.
*   Inefficient revenue collection mechanisms, and absence of legal action
against defaulters.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
20.   Outcome: The project's outcome is unsatisfactory, as it failed to achieve its
objectives. The infrastructure financing system involving merchant banks was not



- v -
established; in fact, it never got off the ground. Although a considerable number of
physical facilities were put in place, the institutional and financial mechanisms for their
sustainability is lacking. The project did not contribute to promoting greater fiscal
responsibility or self-reliance by the States. Adequate counterpart funds were mobilized
for the project, but this was achieved through automatic deductions from Federal
transfers, which had no effect on States' fiscal discipline. A limited amount of capacity
building was achieved, mainly on-the-job, but this was undermined by Nigeria's severe
governance and economic problems. FMWH failed to implement systematic training
programs. The capacity for coordination and monitoring of urban development programs
at the national level remains weak.
21.   Even after the wholesaling mechanism fell apart, the Bank and the Government
still considered it worthwhile to continue the project because of the expected benefits of
the physical investments and the prospects for capacity-building. The primary focus of
the project shifted away from the financial/fiscal system and to the infrastructure sub-
projects. By the time it became clear that even the sustainability of the physical
investments was unlikely, it was too late to renege on the majority of the financing
commitments (although $7.5 million was eventually canceled), as the Government felt
obliged to fulfill strong expectations among the Phase II States that they would obtain a
share of the project financing.
22.  In several States, notably Benue and the former Gongola, the project achieved a
significant concentration of physical improvements in roads, water supply, drainage, and
solid waste management. However, the impact of the works in Ondo and most of the
Phase II States was minimal because the project's resources were dispersed among
numerous, scattered sub-projects. The exception in Phase II were Yobe and Taraba, in
each of which the sub-projects were concentrated in two smaller towns.
23.   Risk Assessment and Appropriate Project Design: In 1997 the World Bank
places much more emphasis on serious risk assessment of proposed operations than it did
ten years ago, when the IDF project was appraised. The major factors that undermined
the IDF--macroeconomic decline, political problems, financial sector vulnerability, public
sector weakness, marginalization of Local Governments--could have been identified and
taken into account in the design of the project. Presumably, today's World Bank would
be unlikely to undertake a project of this magnitude and innovativeness in such an
environment. Rather, the Bank might reduce the scale of the project, set more realistic
objectives, and support pilot efforts to test new approaches.
24.   Concentration or Dispersal of Investments: Even if the States and Local
Governments had been able to properly operate and maintain the project's investments,
their impact was undermined by their dispersal among many States and urban centers. In
the future, a clear policy needs to be adopted. On the one hand, an investment planning
and programming approach may be used to focus packages of investments with a "critical
mass" of expected impact in certain locations. On the other hand, a demand-driven
approach could be adopted which would not necessarily maximize impact, but rather



- vi -
promote other objectives such as improving State and Local Government capacity, sub-
project sustainability, or poverty alleviation.
25.   Assisting States that Show Commitment: The approach used in Phase II of the
IDF project--to assist States that demonstrate initiative and commitment--has been
positive. Funds were channeled to States that promptly submitted acceptable proposals
and arranged for counterpart funds to be earmarked. This approach may be replicated.
26.   Operation and Maintenance: Future investments will need to be selected and
scaled in proportion to the likelihood that they will be adequately operated and
maintained. One avenue is to promote a much greater degree of involvement by Local
Governments, community groups, and end-users in the planning and design. Another
approach is to select investments only where implementing agencies have committed
themselves to complying with rigorous fiscal and tariff improvement programs. It may
also be useful to have implementing agencies earmark funds for O&M in advance,
placing them in separate accounts or funds. Finally, future urban infrastructure programs
should take the fullest possible advantage of opportunities for shifting the incentives for
sustainable service provision to private enterprise.
27.   Community Participation and Management: As long as governance systems
remain fragile and unaccountable, and as long as public sector capacity remains weak and
virtually non-existent at the Local Government level, there may be little alternative in
Nigeria but to rely on community initiative and management for improving the delivery
and sustainability of local services. Models along the lines of Social Investment Funds
may have relevance in this context. Even after the viability of Local Governments is
restored, community participation and management will remain important to supplement
public sector capacity and ensure that programs are demand-responsive.
28.   Private Sector Participation in Infrastructure: Although the IDF project used
private contractors and consultants extensively and relied on merchant banks for financial
administration, it did not promote private sector participation (PSP) in the delivery of
urban infrastructure per se. The project worked with the existing parastatals and
government agencies for implementing its investments in water supply, electricity
distribution, and waste management. In fairness, the project was designed before PSP
became part of the mainstream infrastructure development strategy of the Bank. Future
assistance should seek to promote a range of PSP mechanisms, from the simple
contracting of specific services to full divestiture. This is compatible with programs to
strengthen urban management at the State and Local Government levels.
29.   Policy and Institutional Reforms: Nigeria has a large reform agenda to carry
out in urban development. The IDF generated a number of lessons about the institutional
and financial framework:



- vii -
*  An effective Federal-level urban policy and coordinating agency is needed.
The recently-issued National Urban Development Policy calls for a National
Urban and Regional Development Commission which may be able to fulfill
these functions.
*  The Federal Ministry of Finance and Central Bank should develop their
capacity to monitor the indebtedness and counterpart funding commitments
of States.
*  The Urban Development Bank of Nigeria needs to be placed on a sound
financial and managerial footing. Its mandate should be reviewed to ensure
that it supports the transition of States and Local Governments toward
reliance on the financial market.
*  Reform of public utilities, to make them autonomous, commercially viable,
and subject to competitive market incentives, needs to be undertaken.
*  A reform of the fiscal transfer system should be considered, as the large size
and unconditional nature of the current Federation Account transfers create a
disincentive for State and Local Government revenue mobilization. Also, the
flow of transfers needs to be made transparent and predictable.
* The Federal Government needs to put policies in place that will lead toward
the use of the domestic capital market for urban infrastructure.
Macroeconomic stability is paramount. The Government also needs to come
to grips with the crisis of the banking sector, restoring a credible and
effective regulatory system.
* The restoration of capable Local Governments should be among Nigeria's
highest priorities. Several issues need to be addressed once conditions permit
Local Governments to assume their constitutional functions: (a) defining
their responsibilities clearly, (b) making revenue transfers to them adequate
and predictable, (c) providing incentives, through the transfer system, for
them to increase their internal revenues, and (d) restoring their technical and
administrative staff capacity.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
LOAN 2925-UNI
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.    The Infrastructure Development Fund (IDF) project was the fourth urban infrastructure
project supported by the World Bank in Nigeria. The prior projects covered sites and services
developments for lower income households (Bauchi State 1977 and Imo State 1986) and solid
waste and drainage (Lagos State 1985).
2.    The IDF loan was signed on August 4, 1989 and became effective on May 29, 1990. The
IBRD provided a loan of US$69.5 million, of which US$36.5 million was allocated to pre-
appraised sub-projects in three States, US$26.7 million to sub-projects to be identified and
appraised during project implementation in other States, and US$5.3 million to technical
assistance through the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing (FMWH).
STATEMENT AND ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Objectives
3.    The primary objective of the project was to initiate the establishment of a mechanism for
financing urban infrastructure using selected merchant banks to identify, appraise, supervise and
cofinance sub-projects executed by the States. This was referred to in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) as a "wholesaling mechanism". The implementation of the IDF was intended to help
States (a) to manage, maintain and consolidate existing urban infrastructure and services, (b) to
improve financial management and resource mobilization, and (c) to improve infrastructure
investment planning and programming.
4.    The SAR presented an ambitious "long-term lending strategy" as follows, of which the
IDF was to be the first stage:
* Support the establishment of a sustainable wholesaling mechanism to fund priority
urban investments.
* Promote fiscal self-sufficiency at the State level.
*  Support the States in making fiscal adjustments.
* Develop a market for State and Municipal bonds.
* Promote a more efficient, equitable, and sustainable delivery of urban services.



-2-
Through the participating financial institutions (PFIs), introduce financial discipline
into the State and Local Government systems.
Project Description
5.    The project included: (a) a line of credit to five selected Nigerian merchant banks to
finance pre-appraised infrastructure sub-projects in Benue, Gongola and Ondo States and future
merchant bank-appraised State infrastructure sub-projects; (b) funding for FMWH to implement
(i) training of merchant banks and States in infrastructure project selection, appraisal and
supervision; (ii) consultant services to undertake performance audits and studies of IDF Project
Guidelines; (iii) training and studies to assist FMWH to monitor and post evaluate infrastructure
projects and programs; (iv) training and studies to assist States to prioritize infrastructure
investments; (v) studies to restructure the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN); (vi)
studies to prepare future projects; and (c) vehicles and equipment for IDF support activities.
6.    The on-lending arrangement was originally structured such that IBRD loan funds--
equivalent to 75 percent of the cost of the sub-projects--were to be channeled to States through
the merchant banks, known as participating financial institutions (PFIs). The PFIs were to make
financial contributions of 10 percent of the sub-project costs and were to bear the credit risk on
the portion of the loan on-lent through them and on their own exposure to the project.
7.    The States were to contribute 15 percent of the costs of the sub-projects from their own
resources.
Achievement of Objectives
Financial Objectives
8.    The original on-lending sequence and terms are illustrated in Figure I below. Although
this scheme was agreed at negotiations, in which all parties were represented, the PFIs
subsequently refused to accept the credit risk of funds on-lent to the States and would not enter
into subsidiary loan agreements, which were a condition of IBRD loan effectiveness. The major
causes were the rapid deterioration of the Nigerian economy and the emergence of a banking
sector crisis, both soon after Board presentation.
Figure 1
Original On-lending Arrangement
World Bank               Federal Gov't                   PFIs
8.23%                    8.23%                           8.23%+3.5%
20 yr, 5 yr grace        20 yr, 5 yr grace               15 yr, 3 yr grace
Forex risk on State
Credit risk on PFI



9.   In response to the failure of the original financing arrangements, the lending and legal
agreements were modified to channel the loan funds directly to the State governments, thus
making the States the primary obligors on the loan with the responsibility of bearing the credit
and foreign exchange risks (see Figure 2). States retained the option of borrowing 10 percent of
project costs from the PFIs at the market rate. However, the States did not do so, choosing
instead to increase their counterpart fund contributions from 15 percent to 25 percent. The PFIs
were thus relieved of the responsibility of making financial contributions to the project.
Figure 2
Revised On-lending Arrangement
World Bank              Fed. Gov't                     States
8.23%                   75% of Subproject cost         10% of Subproject Cost
20 yr, 5 yr grace       7 to 15 yr, 3 yr grace         Market terms
Forex risk on State           Market Rate
Credit Risk: 10% on PFI, 90% on  Credit Risk on PFI
FGN
10.   The major differences between the earlier legal and on-lending arrangements entered into
at the loan negotiations in May 1987 and the later amendments are as follows:
* The Deed of Guarantee Agreement between the Federal Government and the PFIs
replaced the Project Agreement between the PFIs and the World Bank.
v The Co-Financing Agreement between the PFIs and the State governments replaced
the Sub-Loan Agreement.
v PFIs were no longer on-lenders and consequently were not required to bear the credit
risk on the IBRD loan.
* By the Deed of Guarantee, the PFIs were to bear 10 percent of the credit risk of the
sub-loans and also the credit risk on their 10 percent contribution to the State.
* The Federal Government was to bear 90 percent of the credit risk of the sub-loans
while the States were to bear the full foreign exchange risk.
11.  It was agreed that the above arrangements would apply to both the pre-appraised sub-
projects (referred to as Phase I) in Benue, Gongola and Ondo States and the sub-projects that
were to be identified and appraised by the PFIs (referred to as Phase II). This was based on the
assumption that the PFIs would be willing to accept the credit risk on the sub-projects which they
had identified and appraised. Reaching agreement on the above and reflecting it in the legal
documents caused 26 months to elapse between Board presentation and loan effectiveness.
However, it then transpired that the PFIs would not accept the risk on these sub-projects either,
and the loan agreement had to be further amended in 1992, a process which took an additional 13
months.



-4 -
12.   The establishment of the IDF mechanism reflected a broad conception of the financial
objectives of the project, which included: (a) to monitor and improve the creditworthiness of
State Governments, (b) to develop a relationship between State governments and the Nigerian
capital market, and (c) to help States improve their fiscal revenue base, thereby moving urban
services toward financial sustainability.
13.   These objectives appeared to be well founded, achievable and relevant to the realities of
the sector at the time they were formulated. The PFIs, which were found to be capable and well
managed at the time of appraisal, proved during project implementation not to be effective
institutions for urban infrastructure financing. This was due to both exogenous macroeconomic
problems and the banks' own mis-management (see below).
14.  In the end, the wholesaling mechanism for infrastructure financing was not established.
State governments did not become more creditworthy, and the transparency of State fiscal affairs
did not improve. The Nigerian banking system, including the merchant banks, went into crisis,
eliminating any possibility of developing a role for the capital market in public infrastructure
financing.
Institutional Objectives
15.   The project's main institutional objectives were: (a) training of merchant banks and States
in the selection, appraisal, and supervision of infrastructure projects; (b) improvement of the
efficiency, equity, and sustainability of urban services; and (c) development of FMWH's
capacity to monitor and post-evaluate infrastructure projects and programs.
16.   Delivery of urban services:  The project was designed to reinforce infrastructure
provision through Nigeria's mainstream public and private institutions. The country's severe
macroeconomic and governance problems, which started soon after Board approval and
continued during the project's entire implementation period, defeated attempts to improve the
efficiency and sustainability of infrastructure provision.
17.   State public agencies: To the extent that staff of the State Ministries of Finance, Works,
and others involved in the project gained on-the-job training and experience in areas such as
project administration, works supervision, property taxation, solid waste management, and
vehicle and equipment maintenance, these entities have been strengthened. New tenement rating
and collection agencies were created in most of the States. However, little or no formal training
of State personnel took place.
18.   Merchant banks: While some PFIs were able to acquire experience in the administration
of externally funded projects, they did not develop the capacity to identify and appraise public
infrastructure investments.
19.   FMWH: FMWH did not provide pro-active leadership or coordination. It failed to
utilize most of the funds allocated to it for implementing training programs.



20.   Nigerian consultants and contractors: In some cases their capacity was enhanced by
working within the more disciplined technical and financial controls of a World Bank-assisted
project.
Physical Objectives
21.   The main physical objective of the IDF was to rehabilitate or construct new urban
infrastructure. At appraisal, it was envisaged that the project would primarily finance urban
roads, water supply, drainage, electricity distribution, solid waste management facilities, markets,
and transport terminals.
22.   Although the actual cost of the State sub-projects totaled US$64.7 million compared with
the appraisal estimate of US$91.0 million, the project can be said to have achieved most of its
construction objectives. In addition to covering the three Phase I States, the project extended to
eight other States in Phase II. A total of 92 km. of urban roads and 122 km. of drainage were
upgraded or rehabilitated in eight states. The project financed the laying of 28 km. of water
transmission mains and 91 km. of water distribution pipelines in three states. The numbers of
sub-projects implemented by type were: 23 road and drainage, 12 water supply (including a
major system in Edo State), four solid waste collection, six electricity distribution, one industrial
estate (Ikere in Ondo State), one sites and services project for housing (Karu in Plateau State),
infrastructure for one major market (roads, water, electricity, drainage, sanitation, and others for
the Orba Market in Enugu State), infrastructure for a government housing estate (Udoka in
Anambra State), and infrastructure for a transport terminal (in Maiduguri, Bomo State).
23.   The loan was extended three times from its original closing date of December 31, 1994 to
the final closing on June 30, 1997, mainly to allow ongoing works to be completed. Almost all
the works suffered from construction delays (see below, Major Factors Affecting the Project). At
loan closing, several sub-projects remained between 90 and 98 percent completed (Ondo State:
Ikare stream channelization and Okitipupa roads; Kogi State: Idah roads and drains; Anambra
State: Okpoko roads and drains, Udoka housing estate; Bomo State: Maiduguri motor park,
Gwange roads and drains, Bama roads and drains, and Biu roads and drains). One sub-project,
the Kabba roads and drains in Kogi State, was only 80 percent completed at loan closing. In
most cases, poor performance by contractors was a major cause of delays.
24.   Despite the extent of the works constructed, they generally have not produced a
substantial improvement in the quality of urban services because (a) in many cases the
investments were too limited in scope and too widely scattered to make an impact and (b)
operation and maintenance of the facilities has been inadequate or non-existent.
25.   Data tables were complied for this ICR on the status and costs of all the physical works at
loan closing. The tables show the original vs. actual quantities completed, the original vs. actual
duration, the original vs. actual costs, and comments on key factors that delayed implementation.
These data are available in the project files.



- 6-
Cost Effectiveness and Impact
26.   Based on the inventory of physical sub-projects prepared for this ICR, an overall rating
was given to each State's package of sub-projects according to its economic impact and its effect
on poverty alleviation. These ratings are based on the type, scale, location, and operational status
of the sub-projects. Out of the eleven States, five obtained little economic impact and seven
achieved little effect on poverty alleviation (though this was not a major project objective). In
only two cases--Anambra-Okpoko (roads) and Enugu (market)--were the economic and poverty
alleviation impacts judged to be high. The following are the main factors accounting for these
results:
* Geographical dispersion of sub-projects within States
*  Even within urban centers, infrastructure sub-projects were often too limited in scale.
* Local Governments, communities, and users were not adequately involved in
planning and implementation.
*  The transfer of projects from States to Local Governments and communities in many
cases has not been effected, resulting in an absence of operation and maintenance.
*  Cost recovery and recurrent financing provisions have been inadequate.
*  In some cases, sub-projects of dubious economic and social justification were
selected. In Ondo, the project financed a large industrial estate at Ikere, which is
unlikely to attract firms. In Anambra, the project financed the infrastructure for a
high-standard, heavily subsidized government housing estate at Udoka.
27.   The economic analysis done at project appraisal used 1986 base costs of works plus costs
of design, supervision, management, maintenance, and physical contingencies. Benefits were
quantified for roads sub-projects in terms of vehicle operating cost savings and for water sub-
projects in terms of the economic value of water consumed. Sensitivity analysis was performned
for a variation in costs of between -30 percent and +30 percent. An economic rate of return
(ERR) of 26 percent for the investments as a whole in Phase I was obtained. It was expected that
an ERR of at least 20 percent would be obtained for the Phase II sub-projects that were to be
appraised by the PFIs.
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Not Subject to Government Control
28.   Performance of contractors and consultants:  In Benue and Gongola States, the
engineering consultants efficiently carried out the preparation of contract documents and
selection of contractors and suppliers. Contracts were awarded promptly, and in Gongola all
contracts were completed on schedule. However, many States had to contend with poor
performance by contractors and consultants. Common problems included faulty design work



-7-
(e.g. omission of important elements from bills of quantity), failure to deploy adequate
personnel, poor site management, poor financial management (in spite of adequate payments),
faulty construction work, and poor communication between contractors, consultants, and
implementing agencies.
Factors Subject to Government Control
29.   Macroeconomic problems: Nigeria experienced high inflation, massive depreciation of
its currency, and declining real output and income during the project implementation period, due
to inappropriate macroeconomic policies.
30.   The devaluation of the Naira (from less than N. 3.50/US$1 in 1986 to N. 85/US$I in
1995) raised the costs of imported materials and equipment used in the project. The high
inflation (averaging 45.6 percent per year over 1991-96) contributed to the collapse of the
banking system. Currency devaluation and inflation greatly escalated the nominal value of
counterpart fund contributions required from the States, requiring sub-projects to be reduced in
scope. The reduction in the scope of projects as a result of budget constraints adversely affected
the sub-projects. For example, the leak detection programs, which were integral parts of all
water sub-projects, were eliminated.
31.   Devaluation and inflation also increased the nominal value of the PFIs' financial
contributions to levels far above their capacity. This was an important factor in their rejection of
the wholesaling mechanism.
32.   Another negative aspect was the erosion of profit of the business sector when such profits
were converted to other currencies. A tendency was observed for contract bids to be inflated so
as to hedge against expected inflation and devaluation losses.
33.   Governance problems: The inability to consummate the promised transition to civil rule,
coupled with lack of transparency in public sector management at all levels, severely eroded
confidence of the public in governmental authority, accountability, and effectiveness. The period
of project identification to loan signing (1983-1989) witnessed three changes of government at
the national level. The implementation period (1989-97) encompassed three other governments
and a precarious political climate.
34.   The weakness and marginalization of Local Governments (LGs) within Nigeria's
governance system during the project period meant that many of the investments would be
unsustainable. LGs were generally not involved in the planning and design stages of the sub-
projects, and even if they were, they remained institutionally and financially incapable of
handling mandated functions such as maintenance of urban roads and drains and collection of
solid wastes.
35.  Inconsistency of policies and mechanisms: The frequent policy changes of succeeding
governments sent conflicting policy signals and created confusion. The economy was by turns
regulated, deregulated, and partially regulated. Changes of government produced changes of key
decision makers at the Federal and State levels. This severely undermined the attainment of
institutional objectives, as these are by definition of a long-term nature. Frequent, unpredictable



changes of State leadership produced several instances of questioning by  new State
Administrators of key decisions made by their predecessors concerning the IDF project. This
caused very long implementation delays, notably in Ondo (two years) and Edo (one year). Ondo
State had five administrations between project appraisal and loan closing.
36.   Adequacy of counterpart funds: This was a positive factor in the project. The Nigerian
Merchant Bank (NMB), one of the early PFIs, convinced the Federal authorities to put in place a
Standing Payment Order (SPO) to ensure a secured and uninterrupted monthly flow of
counterpart payments by the States. The SPO is a "deduction at source" from the State's fiscal
allocations out of the Federation Account. The success of the initial SPO arrangement
encouraged other States to enter into similar arrangements with their PFIs. Except in one or two
States, where the arrangements were temporarily suspended by new Administrations, the SPO
arrangement was a successful aspect of the project.
37.   Scarcity of bitumen:  In every State, bitumen was required for rehabilitation and
upgrading of roads under the project. The supply of bitumen is controlled by the Nigeria
National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), which raised the price from N. 1,600 per ton in mid-
1995 to N. 12,000 per ton in mid-1996. In March 1997 bitumen became virtually unavailable
due to the breakdown of the NNPC Refinery in Kaduna. At the same time, the many road works
being implemented simultaneously by various government agencies across the country further
escalated the price of bitumen well above the official price. The bitumen problem alone resulted
in a substantial escalation of project costs.
Factors Subject to Implementing Agency Control
38.   Delays in processing of legal documents: The PFIs' rejection of the original financing
arrangements required an amendment to the main Loan Agreement. It took the Federal Ministry
of Finance (FMF) 15 months to process the amendment. There was also an eight month delay
by FMF in concluding the Sub Loan Agreement (SLA) between the Federal Government and the
States for the Phase II sub-projects.
39.   State staff performance, training and turnover: Several of the State Project
Implementation Units (PIUs) performed very well, notably Benue and Gongola. These States
had a total of 24 works, goods and consultancy contracts. Some states had high turnover of
Project Directors. This led to changes of authorized signatories and consequently delayed
payments to contractors and progress of works. FMWH's failure to utilize the training funds
provided in the project meant that most of the PIU staff lacked training in Bank procurement,
disbursement, and financial management procedures. Improper documentation and lack of
understanding of project objectives and Bank guidelines on the part of State staff caused
implementation delays. Apart from the foreign contractors and some of the local contractors on
the Gongola and Benue civil works, most of the contractors depended on interim certificate
payments to fund their work. Delays by the PIUs in processing contractors' payments--which
occurred all too frequently--therefore meant that the works contract periods were not enforceable.
40.   Poor management by merchant banks: Macroeconomic problems contributed to, but were
not the only reason for, the rejection of financial participation and risk-sharing by the PFIs. The
crisis of the banking sector was also brought on by the banks' own mis-management. Most of



9-
the PFIs that were favorably appraised at the beginning of the project experienced large staff
turnover, staff poaching, and dilution of professionally trained and experienced staff.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
41.   The project failed to establish a sustainable financing mechanism for urban infrastructure.
As explained above, this was due mostly to factors not subject to the project's control. However,
in hindsight, the project's design did not adequately take into account some major risk factors
which were foreseeable: macro-economic decline, political instability, loss of confidence, and
governance problems.
42.   The sustainability of the physical improvements financed through the project is unlikely.
The original design assumed that technical assistance would enable States and Local
Governments to increase general revenues and tariffs for operation and maintenance. In reality,
tenement rate (property tax) collections in Benue and Gongola States (now Adamawa and
Taraba) during 1992 to 1997 were less than 10 percent of projected levels. Though the project
helped establish property rating and valuation systems in Borno, Ondo, Kogi and Yobe States,
collections had not commenced at loan closing.  Tariff increases for water and waste
management were small or non-existent. The main factors behind this failure were:
* Absence of political incentives to raise taxes and tariffs.
*  Lack of confidence by the public that higher taxes and tariffs would result in better
services.
*  Inadequate involvement of users in investment decisions.
* Marginalization of Local Governments in the current governance system, and their
inability to take over operation and maintenance of facilities.
*  Inefficient revenue collection mechanisms, and absence of legal action against
defaulters.
43.   None of the States presented a project sustainability plan by the loan closing date.
44.   Roads, drains, water systems, and waste management facilities in Gongola, Benue and
Plateau States financed through the project were completed between 1992 and 1995. Information
on the operational condition of these investments were collected for this ICR. Most of the
facilities have started to show signs of failure. Roads have developed pot holes, and the drains
are silted up and overgrown with weeds. The majority of the solid waste management vehicles
and equipment are non-functioning.
BANK PERFORMANCE
45.   The World Bank's performance in project identification, preparation, appraisal and
implementation was generally satisfactory. However, the failure of the project to achieve its



- 10-
objectives raises questions about the extent to which the Bank adequately evaluated the project's
risks. When it was appraised and reviewed by the Board, the project was regarded as innovative
and ambitious.
46.   The SAR did say that the establishment of the wholesaling mechanism was a high-risk
component. According to the SAR, "the main risk is that the merchant banks, although generally
well-managed, may not prove to be effective institutions for the financing of urban
infrastructure." In case of failure of the financing mechanism, the SAR stated, "State sub-
projects with high rates of return would still have been completed; the Federal Government
would not be left with an institution to dismantle." Other risks mentioned in the SAR were the
failure of States to repay loans due to exogenous factors; the failure of States to satisfy subloan
financial and institutional conditionality; and implementation delays due to institutional
weakness.
47.   These observations notwithstanding, during project preparation and appraisal the Bank
had a "bullish" view of Nigeria's development prospects. The debate within the Bank focused
on how to structure the financial intermediation arrangements. Various alternatives were
examined, including an all-public sector approach. The merchant banks were subjected to
detailed scrutiny and were found to be financially sound and well-managed. At negotiations, the
merchant banks appear to have agreed to commitments whose implications they only understood
subsequently. In retrospect, it appears that the Bank agreed to a structure based too much on
wishful thinking and not enough on a realistic assessment of the risks.
48.  It seems fair to say that the Bank also over-estimated the commitment and
implementation capacities of FMWH and the States. The Bank's appraisal did not take Nigeria's
political and governance situation into account.
49.   The Bank assumed that the FMWH and the PFIs would carry out the majority of the
detailed supervision of such a large, multi-State project. This would enable the Bank to conduct
its own supervision efficiently and effectively. However, neither the FMWH nor the PFIs
performed supervision satisfactorily (see below). The burden fell back on the Bank, which was
able to maintain a creditable supervision effort during the life of the project. At least two formal
supervision missions per year were carried out throughout the entire period of implementation
between 1987 and 1997. In addition to the full supervision missions, a Municipal Engineer
based in the Bank's Resident Mission carried out day-to-day liaison with States, PFIs, and
Federal agencies, followed up on action plans and decisions, and conducted at least two
additional field visits per year to each State. The Bank's enforcement of loan covenants was
generally satisfactory.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
50.   The performance of the FMWH is rated satisfactory in project preparation but deficient in
project implementation. Notably, FMWH took the lead in ensuring that investment prioritization
studies required for the project were carried out in conjunction with the States and Local
Governments. However, FMWH did not provide adequate leadership and direction in project



- 11 -
implementation. Though FMWH officers participated in all the formal supervision missions
with the Bank, their contributions were quite limited. In July 1993, FMWH engaged the services
of a consultant to assist in project supervision and financial monitoring. This consultant
substantially improved the quality and timeliness of supervision. Apart from this, the FMWH
played a generally passive, reactive role. It did not address policy areas such as property taxation
and waste management. FMWH paid little attention to institutional development at the State and
Local Government levels. Although FMWIH was provided with adequate funding under the
project to organize training and other capacity-building activities, only a fraction of these funds
were actually used.
Federal Ministry of Finance and Central Bank
51.   As mentioned above, the FMF's weak capacity proved costly in terms of delays in project
implementation. When the PFIs reneged on the negotiated financing mechanism soon after
Board approval, it became necessary to rely on the FMF to process an amendment to the Loan
Agreement and new Sub Loan Agreements to comply with the conditions of loan effectiveness.
Poor management by FMF produced a 26 month delay before the loan could be declared
effective. It took another 15 months to resolve amendments to the main Loan Agreement after
the PFIs refused to accept the revised scheme in which they would cover a reduced degree of
risk.
52.   Per the Loan Agreement, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) was expected to establish
and maintain a control account for the project and annually monitor the performance of the PFIs.
In practice the CBN did not do any of these things and was not involved in project
implementation.
States
53.   Preparation and appraisal: Adamawa, Anambra, Benue, Edo, Plateau, Taraba, and Yobe
States and FMWH are rated as having performed satisfactorily during project preparation and
appraisal. The performance of Borno, Enugu, and Kogi States was deficient during this phase, in
that the staff assigned to the project were not well prepared, and State officials did not take
timely decisions. Ondo State performed deficiently in this phase due to prolonged insistence of
the new State leadership on unacceptable changes to decisions taken by the preceding
administration.
54.  Implementation: All the States except Bomo and Kogi performed satisfactorily in the
implementation phase, in the sense that they handled the physical works implementation and
financial record-keeping acceptably. Borno and Kogi States had serious difficulties due to poor
working relationships among top State officials, staff of the implementation units, contractors,
and consultants.
55.   The following problems affected all the States during project preparation and
implementation:
Bureaucratic inefficiency within the State government.



- 12-
*  Inadequate delegation of authority leading to slowness in taking critical decisions.
Frequent relocation of the project implementation unit in different Ministries and
changes of project staff.
*  Interference in day to day management of the project and in contract awards by State
government functionaries, leading to delays in procurement and subsequently in sub-
project execution.
*  Lack of adequate training of State personnel and therefore lack of requisite
knowledge of World Bank guidelines and procedures
Participating Financial Institutions
56.   After they had withdrawn from direct financing, the PFIs were to perform two major
functions under the IDF project. One was the provision of banking-related services, including
managing the project and special accounts and assisting the State governments with project
accounting and auditing. The other was the provision of technical assistance to the States in the
form of appraising Phase II sub-projects, assisting in the preparation of terms of reference, and
providing comments on technical documents.
57.   Despite the difficult environment, the PFIs performed the banking services aspect of the
project fairly adequately. They assisted in mobilizing counterpart funds from the States. They
impartially monitored the operation of the special accounts, thereby avoiding some of the
problems that usually arise when States use state-owned banks for their special accounts. Some
of the PFIs also assisted in project monitoring, particularly in following up on agreed activities
after supervision missions.
58.   The performance of the PFIs with respect to technical services was, however, grossly
inadequate. Technical documents which should have been reviewed by the PFIs were usually
passed to the World Bank without substantive action.
59.   The appraisal verified that the initial set of PFIs that started the IDF project (Continental,
Icon, International Merchant Bank, NAL, and Nigeria Merchant Bank) had the expertise and
experience to fulfill all the major functions under the project. As the environment changed
dramatically after appraisal, both the original banks and the banks that subsequently joined the
project as PFIs became incapable of playing the roles envisioned and were reduced to little more
than financial administrators.
60.   The problems of the PFIs may be summarized as follows:
* The severe deterioration of the Nigerian economy starting in the late 1980s
(stagnating industrial output, high inflation, negative interest rates, shrinking
consumer purchasing power and demand, high unemployment, grossly devalued
national currency, and declining transparency and accountability) reduced the



- 13 -
availability of good credits and bankable projects and resulted in poor utilization of
loanable funds and high arrearage of credits.
*  The liberalization of bank licensing in 1990 produced an enormous increase in the
numbers of commercial and merchant banks and tertiary financial institutions. The
proliferation of banking institutions diluted the stock of professional bankers, with
less experienced staff occupying senior management positions in many banks. The
banks experienced large staff turn-over and poaching.
*  The large escalation in the project's nominal local currency costs due to inflation and
devaluation made it difficult for the PFIs to contribute their shares of the financing.
The PFIs claimed that such contributions would exceed prudent exposure to a single
borrower.
*  Having backed out of making any financial commitments to the project, the PFIs had
little interest in providing technical services. In addition, the fee structure for the
PFIs under the project furnished no incentive for good performance in providing
technical services.
*  The PFIs did not receive adequate training in World Bank procedures before they
were invited to perform their roles as PFIs. The few that were trained tended to lose
capacity due to rapid turnover that characterized the banking sector.
v Because of the country's economic crisis and their own mis-management, many
banks became insolvent starting in the early 1 990s.
v Because they withdrew from financial participation in the project, the PFIs had no
leverage over the State governments, and thereby they could not instill financial
discipline in the States' affairs.
61.  It must be noted that the original banks continued to perform better than those which
joined the project in mid-stream.  The latter lacked the benefit of participating in loan
negotiations and of having established an in-house unit for implementing this type of project.
During the preparation of the present ICR, it was found that most of the PFIs did not have copies
of the project's SAR, Bank procurement guidelines, or Bank accounting and auditing guidelines.
Virtually all of the PFIs' staff assigned to the IDF had spent less than one year on the project, and
none had received training on how to handle Bank-assisted projects.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
62.   The project's outcome is unsatisfactory, as it failed to achieve its objectives. The
infrastructure financing system involving merchant banks was not established; in fact, it never
got off the ground. Although a considerable number of physical facilities were put in place, the
institutional and financial mechanisms for their sustainability are lacking. The project did not
contribute to promoting greater fiscal responsibility or self-reliance by the States. Adequate



-14-
counterpart funds were mobilized for the project, but this was achieved through automatic
deductions from Federal transfers, which had no effect on States' fiscal discipline. A limited
amount of capacity building was achieved, mainly on-the-job, but this was undermined by
Nigeria's severe governance and economic problems. FMWH failed to implement systematic
training programs. The capacity for coordination and monitoring of urban development
programs at the national level remains weak.
63.   Even after the wholesaling mechanism fell apart, the Bank and the Government still
considered it worthwhile to continue the project because of the expected benefits of the physical
investments and the prospects for capacity-building. The primary focus of the project shifted
away from the financial/fiscal system and to the infrastructure sub-projects. By the time it
became clear that even the sustainability of the physical investments was unlikely, it was too late
to renege on the majority of the financing commitments (although $7.5 million was eventually
canceled), as the Government felt obliged to fulfill strong expectations among the Phase II States
that they would obtain a share of the project financing.
64.  In several States, notably Benue and the former Gongola, the project achieved a
significant concentration of physical improvements in roads, water supply, drainage, and solid
waste management. However, the impact of the works in Ondo and most of the Phase II States
was minimal because the project's resources were dispersed among numerous, scattered sub-
projects. The exceptions in Phase I1 were Yobe and Taraba, in each of which the sub-projects
were concentrated in two smaller towns.
FUTURE OPERATION
65.   None of the States submitted plans for the operation and maintenance of the facilities
financed through the project.
66.   Two revenue-earning sub-projects are likely to be adequately operated and maintained
through user fees: the Orba Market in Enugu and the Karu sites and services project in Plateau.
67.   The roads, water systems, drains, and solid waste facilities--which represent the bulk of
the project's physical investments--are unlikely to be maintained because of inadequate
mobilization of tax and tariff revenues by States and Local Governments.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
Risk Assessment and Appropriate Project Design
68.  In 1997 the World Bank places much more emphasis on serious risk assessment of
proposed operations than it did ten years ago, when the IDF project was appraised. The major
factors that undermined the IDF--macroeconomic decline, political problems, financial sector
vulnerability, public sector weakness, marginalization of Local Governments--could have been
identified and taken into account in the design of the project. Presumably, today's World Bank
would be unlikely to undertake a project of this magnitude and innovativeness in such an
environment. Rather, the Bank might reduce the scale of the project, set more realistic
objectives, and support pilot efforts to test new approaches.



- 15-
69.   Supervision of the IDF project, covering as it did 11 States and 49 sub-projects (with an
even greater number of individual consultancy and civil works contracts), was an enormous
challenge. Clearly, future projects and programs must be dimensioned on the basis of a realistic
assessment of the capacity for adequate supervision.
Concentration or Dispersal of Investments
70.   Even if the States and Local Governments had been able to properly operate and maintain
the project's investments, their impact was undermined by their dispersal among many States
and urban centers. In the future, a clear policy needs to be adopted. On the one hand, an
investment planning and programming approach may be used to focus packages of investments
with a "critical mass" of expected impact in certain locations. On the other hand, a demand-
driven approach could be adopted that would not necessarily maximize impact, but rather
promote other objectives such as improving State and Local Government capacity and
ownership, sub-project sustainability, or poverty alleviation.
Assisting States that Show Commitment
71.   The approach used in Phase II of the IDF project--to assist States that demonstrate
initiative and commitment--has been positive. Funds were channeled to States that promptly
submitted acceptable proposals and arranged for counterpart funds to be earmarked. This
approach may be replicated.
Operation and Maintenance
72.   Future investments will need to be selected and scaled in proportion to the likelihood that
they will be adequately operated and maintained. One avenue is to promote a much greater
degree of involvement by Local Governments, community groups, and end-users in the planning
and design. Another approach is to select investments only where implementing agencies have
committed themselves to complying with rigorous fiscal and tariff improvement programs. It
may also be useful to have implementing agencies earmark funds for O&M in advance, placing
them in separate accounts or funds. Finally, future urban infrastructure programs should take the
fullest possible advantage of opportunities for shifting the incentives for sustainable service
provision to private enterprise.
Community Participation and Management
73.   As long as governance systems remain fragile and unaccountable, and as long as public
sector capacity remains weak and virtually non-existent at the Local Government level, there
may be little alternative in Nigeria but to rely on community initiative and management for
improving the delivery and sustainability of local services. Models along the lines of Social
Investment Funds may have relevance in this context. Even after the viability of Local
Governments is restored, community participation and management will remain important to
supplement public sector capacity and ensure that programs are demand-responsive.



-16-
Private Sector Participation in Infrastructure
74.   Although the IDF project used private contractors and consultants extensively and relied
on merchant banks for financial administration, it did not promote private sector participation
(PSP) in the delivery of urban infrastructure per se. The project worked with the existing
parastatals and government agencies for implementing its investments in water supply, electricity
distribution, and waste management. In fairness, the project was designed before PSP became
part of the mainstream infrastructure development strategy of the Bank. Future assistance should
seek to promote a range of PSP mechanisms, from the simple contracting of specific services to
fill divestiture. This is compatible with programs to strengthen urban management at the State
and Local Government levels.
Policy and Institutional Reforms
75.   Nigeria has a large reform agenda to carry out in urban development. The IDF generated
a number of lessons about the institutional and financial framework:
* An effective Federal-level urban policy and coordinating agency is needed. The
recently-issued National Urban Development Policy calls for a National Urban and
Regional Development Commission which may be able to fulfill these functions.
* The Federal Ministry of Finance and Central Bank should develop their capacity to
monitor the indebtedness and counterpart funding commitments of States.
* The Urban Development Bank of Nigeria needs to be placed on a sound financial and
managerial footing. Its mandate should be reviewed to ensure that it supports the
transition of States and Local Governments toward reliance on the financial market.
* Reform of public utilities, to make them autonomous, commercially viable, and
subject to competitive market incentives, needs to be undertaken.
* A reform of the fiscal transfer system should be considered, as the large size and
unconditional nature of the current Federation Account transfers create a disincentive
for State and Local Government revenue mobilization. Also, the flow of transfers
needs to be made transparent and predictable.
* The Federal Government needs to put policies in place that will lead toward the use of
the domestic capital market for urban infrastructure. Macroeconomic stability is
paramount. The Government also needs to come to grips with the crisis of the
banking sector, restoring a credible and effective regulatory system.
* The restoration of capable Local Governments will involve: (a) defining their
responsibilities clearly, (b) making revenue transfers to them adequate and
predictable, (c) providing incentives, through the transfer system, for them to increase
their internal revenues, and (d) restoring their technical and administrative staff
capacity.



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES



:



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives          Substantial        Partial         Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies
Sector Policies                                       E                                    l [I
Financial Objectives                                   0x                                  El
Institutional Development             E                  J               0                  0
Physical Objectives                  ixi              E                  E                  E
Poverty Reduction                       l                l               El                 X
Gender Issues                           l                l               E                 X
Other Social Objectives               El               E                El                 l
Environmental Objectives              El              ix                     
Public Sector Management                l                l               x                  E
Private Sector Development .                          i                  E                  El
Other (specify)                       E                E                 E                  E
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainability                Likely                   Unlikely                   Uncertain
(if)                       (if)                       (if)
El                  I~~           ~~~~x]       El
Highly
C. Bank Performance                       satisfactory           Satisfactory                 Deficient
(if)                      (if)                        (if)
Identification                                                    i                        El
Preparation Assistance                a                         iX                          E
Appraisal                                                       [E ll
Supervision                           a                         ixi                         E
D.  Borrower Performance                         satisfactory     Satisfactory     Deficient
(if)            (if)             (if)
Preparation                                     E               [                El
Implementation                                  ED              E 
Covenant Compliance                             El                               El
Operation (if applicable)                       E                El
Highly                                               Highl
E. Assessment of Outcome                satisfactory   Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
(if)             (if)              (if)              (i)
El              El                [                  El



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title    7                     Purpose                        IYear of Approvall       Status
Preceding Operations
LN. 1767-UNI          To provide (i) sites and services and upgrading in Bauchi town and
Nigerian States Urban   Gombe township; (ii) Technical Assistance at State and Federal
Development Project    Levels; and (iii) Urban Development feasibility studies in seven
other States.                                                      1977           Closed 6/30/86
LN. 2607-UNI          To (i) Strengthen, at the Federal level, Government's capability for
Imo Urban Development policy formulation and program monitoring and evaluation in the
Project               Urban Sector and extend preparation assistance to the States; (ii)
extend to Imo State the
demonstration begun in Bauchi State of a replicable approach to
providing shelter and related services affordable by low-income
population; and (iii) build on and strengthen institutional linkages
and capacity in Imo State to
carry out future low-income Urban development projects' while
improving the local financial resource base.                       1986           Closed 6/30/93
LN. 2620-UNI          (i) Strengthen the administrative, financial, and technical capacity
Lagos Solid Waste and   of Lagos State. (ii) Help Lagos Waste Management Authority and
Storm Drainage Project  State Ministry of Works and Transport to improve waste and
drainage services. (iii) Assist LSG to improve property
tax collection for operation and maintenance of these services.    1985           Closed 9/30/93
Following Operations
LN. 3238-UNI          To promote the efficient functioning of Ibadan and Oyo States'
Oyo State Urban Project other major towns through city-wide infrastructure rehabilitation,
and through strengthening the institutions responsible for Urban
Management and Local resource mobilization.                        1990       Closing date 6/30198
CR. 2517              To improve the ability of the Lagos Metropolis to serve as an
Lagos Drainage and    economic c.enter and to improve living conditions by improving
Sanitation Project    stormwater drainage and introduce measures for community
upgrading and wastewater disposal                                  1993       Closing date 6/30/98



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                Date Planned     |       Date Actual
Identification                                                            December 16, 1985
Preparation                                          February 1986      February-April, 1986
Appraisal                                                May 1986            May-June, 1986
Negotiations                                          January 1987          May 11-15,1987
Board Presentation                                       May 1987            March 29, 1988
Signing                                                                       August 4, 1989
Effectiveness                                            May 1988              May 29, 1990
Midterm review                                                                February 1994
Loan Closing                                    December 31, 1994              June 30, 1997
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Comparative Indicators  FY 88  FY 89  FY 90  FY 91  FY 92  FY 93  FY 94  FY 95  FY 96  FY 97
Appraisal estimate     2.90  13.40  25.70  38.00  49.00  57.90  64.40   68.60  69.50  69.50
Actual                                1.34   6.13  21.09  23.30  25.66  32.90  43.66  60.68
Actual % of estimate                  5.2   16.1   43.0   40.2   39.8   48.0   62.8   87.3



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
At the time this project was approved by the Bank's Board, no project
performance indicators were specified in either the SAR or MOP. Physical and financial
progress was monitored throughout the project without reference to any benchmarks other
than the sub-projects listed for the.first three states of Phase I in the SAR and the original
financing and disbursement plans.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
At the time this project was approved by the Bank's Board, no project
performance or operation indicators were specified in either the SAR or MOP.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
l       Purpose as Defined
Study                   at Appraisal/Redefined        Status      Impact of Study
1. Prioritization Studies    Investment planning and              C       Prioritized urban
1986 1990               programming for each State                   infrastructure
investment programs
prepared for 10
States
2. Project Performnance Audit  Assessment of physical, financial,  C       Effective monitoring
and institutional performance against       tool for the project.
1995                  project's objectives
3. Re-Structuring Study of the    Evaluation of operating procedures  C    Recommendations of
Urban Development Bank of     and assistance with the corporate           the study yet to be
Nigeria                       plan.                                        implemented
1995



Table 8A: Project Cost
(By-sub-Project)
US$
S/No. State               Loan          Canceled               Appraisal Estimate                      Actual Latest Estimate
Allocation Loans
Foreign      Local         Total        Foreign      Local       Total
Component   Component                   Component  Component
I   Anambra (Udoka)         3,000,000                                                           2,709,933     396,742        3,106,675
2   Anambra (Okpoko)        2,000,000                                                            1,142,124    1,132,415      2,274,53
3   Borno                   3,000,000      1,000,000                                              781,020    1,659,482       2,440,503
4   Edo                     5,000,000      2,800,000                                             1,426,145    875,130         2,301,275
5   Yobe                    5,000,000                   26,250,00     8,750,000    35,000,000    4,020,412    1,432,784       5,453,196
6   Kogi                    3,000,000       400,000                                              1,667,382    1,109,197      2,776,579
9   Plateau                 2,000,000                                                            1,470,525    566,795        2,037,320
10   Taraba                  5,000,000     1,000,000                                             2,950,028    2,313,813       5,263,841
I    Enugu                   2,400,000                                                           2,131,876    220,000         2,351,876
12   Gongola                13,300,000                  11,454,800    3,694,700    15,149,500   12,960,001    1,340,000      14,300,000
7   Ondo                   12,300,00        650,000    10,423,500     4,559,700    14,983,200    8,187,227    4,039,285      12,226,512
8   Benue                  10,900,000       600,000    10,388,00      3,762,200    14,150,200    5,359,051    6,332,357      11,691,408
13   FMWH                    2,600,000     1,050,000     4,368,00(                  4,368,000    1,090,000                    1,090,000
IDF Training and                                     964,700                     94,700
Evaluation
Physical                                            3,410,600    1,339,900     4,750,500
Contingencies
Price Contingencies                                 2,245,600    5,163,200     7,408,800
Total                  69,500,00a     7,500,000    69,505,200    27,269,700    95,904,90    45,895,723   19,858,001     65,753,72



Table 8B: Project Financing
Source            Appraisal Estimate (US$M)        Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local    Foreign      Total       Local      Foreign     Total
Costs      Costs                  Costs       Costs
IBRD                              69.5        69.5        14.3        45.9        60.2
State Governments       9.1                    9.1         5.6           0         5.6
Merchant Banks         18.2                   18.2           0           0          0
TOTAL                 27.3       69.5        96.8        19.9        45.9        65.8
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Re-estimation of economic costs and benefits was not feasible for this project.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
SELECTION NO.                                                                                    COMMENTS                    ACTION TAKEN OR REQUIRED
OF CREDIT/LOAN                        COVENANT                       TYPE  STATUS
AGREEMENT
Section 2.02 (b)    Open and maintain a Special Account (in dollars)  3        C      The PFIs performed the operations Close supervision and monitoring of the PFIs was
in a Commercial or Merchant Bank.                                  adequately well.                effected by the Bank.
Section 2.05 (NMB    Open and maintain a Project Account              3          C      The PFIs performed the operations Close supervision and monitoring of the PFIs was
Project Agreement)                                                                      adequately well.                effected by the Bank.
Section 4.02 (a)(i)   Special Account to be audited for each fiscal year.  I    C      Accounting and auditing systems  External auditors were appointed to carryout the
were set up for the PlUs by    audit reports of the PlUs.
______ _____ _____ __  __ ______ _____ _____ _____ ______ _____ __   __ _____independent  accounting   firm s.
Section 4.02 (a)(ii)   Audit report to be presented to Bank no later than  I    CD      Audit reports were not usually  Close follow-up was needed by the Bank to ensure
six months after end of the fiscal year.                           submitted early by most PlUs.    the submission of audited reports.
Section 4.02 (b)(ii)   Maintain Statements of Expenditures (SOE) and  I         CD      Record keeping at the PlUs were   Close supervision of the PFIs could have improved
keep records until one year after audit report has                  adequate but quality of        the bookkeeping by the PlUs.
been received.                                                     bookkeeping could be improved
Section 4.03 (i)  Establish and maintain a control account with      I        NC      The CBN did not get involved in  Involvement of the CBN could have assisted with
Central Bank                                                       the project after loan negotiations  loan documentation.
: _____________________________________                            in  W ashington   DC.
Section 4.03 (ii)    Review annually the performance of PFIs and the  2        NC      This aspect of monitoring and   The review of the performance of the PFIs would
overall financial status of the sub-loans.                         supervision of the PFIs by the  have provided early warning signals about the
CBN was carried out            position of the PFIs
Section 4.04     Cause the Central Bank to annually discuss with   2         NC      This aspect of monitoring and   The review of the performance of the PFIs would
the Bank on the financial performance of the PFIs                  supervision of the PFIs by the  have provided early warning signals about the
with particular reference to their Capital adequacy                CBN was carried out             position of the PFIs
and liquidity position.
Section 2.01(c) (i) (State Establish and maintain a project management unit  5     C      Cases of interference in the    The ministry in which PIU will be located must be
Agreement)      to oversee the carrying out of the project                           operations of the PlUs were     well defined in future projects.
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  ram part.
Section 2.01(c) (ii) (State Promptly appoint a Project Manager to head the  5       C      Frequent changes of Project     Project Managers must be high ranking officers in
Agreement)       Project Management Unit                                             Managers and supporting staff was the public service.
_recorded during the project



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd)
Agreement                Covenant Type           Present Status     Original Fulfillment     Description of                Comments
Financial, Management Long delay in processing of legal
Loan Agreement               Main Agreement                    CD          August 4, 1989         and Loan Monitoring  Agreements by FMFED resulted in
_____  _______ ____  _________    _ __ _________ prolonged project execution time
For the Bank-Appraised                       Long delay in execution of legal
projeccts -May 1990.                         agreements by FMFED and the Sub-
Sub-Loan Agreement           Subsidiary Agreement              CD          For the Phase 11 Projects 1,2,3,4,5, 9       project States resulted in delay in
Feb. 1994                                    project execution.
_  _ _._    __  .___.__.__ _.X _ For Bank-Appraisedi  . _Processing of Agreements along
projects-May 1990; For                       other legal documents in the states
State Agreement              Subsidiary Agreement              CD          IPhase 11 Projects, March 1,2, 3,4, 5, 9     resulted in delays in the execution of
1994                                        the agreement and delay in project
effectiveness
Guarantee Agreement by                        Varying dates for the                        Need for guarantee agreement -
the PFIs for 10% of the                       PFIs and Sub-project                         between PFls and Sub-Project States i
Project Costs                                 States                 34                    not necessary as the repayment of theI
Deed of Guarantee                                               C                                 3,4                   loan is effected directly by deducting
repayment from the statutory
_               _. __._  _ . _ ___       _ . . ~~~~~~allocations of the states_                        _
_                     _                         ______                                                                 allocations ofthestatAgreement between the    _ .   _ _  Non of the PFis contributed the 10%
PFis and Sub-Project States                                                                requirement to the project
Co-Financing Agreement       for the financ ng of 10% ofC                  ditto                   1,2, 3, 4, 5, 9
the toa prjctcs
C=  Complied with                                                        1. Accounts/audit
CD= Compliance after delay                                              2. Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
NC= Not Complied with                                                    3. Flow and utilization of Project funds
5. Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                           Planned          Revised        Actual
Project Cycle                                                                   l
Weeks  US$    Weeks  US$   Weeks   US$
. ______ (000)            (000)           (000)
Preparation to Appraisal            NA      NA       NA      NA       22.8     42.9
Appraisal-Board                     NA      NA       NA      NA       59.0    115.9
Negotiations through Board Approval    NA    NA      NA      NA       18.9     37.8
Supervision                         NA      NA       NA      NA     203.4    370.1
Completion                          24.0    39.8    24.0   39.8      24.0      39.8
TOTAL                              NA      NA       NA      NA     328.1    606.5



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Perfonrance Rating
Number                Specialized    Implementation    Development
Stage of     Month/     of    Days in        Staff Skills       Status          Objectives       Types of
Project Cycle   Year    Persons    Field       Represented                                         Problems
Through Appraisal
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Supervision 1       8/88       1        N/A      Land Economist         NR               NR          Project not yet effective. Major legal
drafting bottleneck exists at FMF
Supervision 2       8/89       1        11.3    Urban Planner            2                2          Project still not effective although a
compromise solution on merchant
banks' credit risk affecting mainly
the subsidiary loan agreements has
been worked out an put forward for
FMFED approval. Loan agreement
will require amendment. FMWH
managed state prioritization studies
and project appraisal training have
not been started.
Supervision 3       8/90       7        N/A      Division Chief          2                2          Ondo State agreement still unsigned.
Engineer                                            New studies arrangements with
Economist                                           PMB (NAL) not finalized and
Sr.Oper. Officer                                    Project Agreement not yet signed.
Urban Planner
Engineer
Land Economist
Supervision 4      11/90       2         8.4     Municipal Eng.          2                2          Ondo State Agreement: signing still
Fin. Analyst                                        pending. Amendments to Loan
Agreement awaiting FMF signature.
Instiutional strengthening, limited
progress. Benue: supervision
consultancy, no progress.
Supervision 5       2/91       2         9.9     Municipal Eng.          2                2          NMB may no nger be prepared to
Rating & Valua.                       ~~~~~~~~honor their agreement to fiind 100/6
of Benue and Congola Sub-Projects.
FMFED have still not signed the
amendment of August 2, 1990.
Supervision 6       6/91       2        113    Unfras Enginer            2                2          NMB's Financial participation
Infim. Engineer                       ~~~~~~~~continues to be uncertain.
Supervision 7       7/91       1                 F. Analyst2                              2          NMB's Financial participation may
be resolved shortly. Line of Credit,
participating Banks unwilling to take
the credit risk.
Supervision 8      10/9 1      3         77      Urban Engineer          2                 2          Ondo State agreement still unsigned.
Fin. Analyst                                        FMG response awaited (legal
Fin. Analyst                                        agreement draft amendments). Ondo
have approved contracts or new
studies but arrangements with PMB
(NAL) not finalized and project
agreement not yet signed. Proposal
for prioritization studies awaited by
Bank.



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions (cont'd)
Performance Rating
Number                Specialized     Implementation    Development
Stage of     Monthw     of    Days in        Staff Skills       Status          Objectives       Types of
Project Cycle   Year    Persons    Field       Represented                                         Problems
Supervision 9       2192       3         7.3     Urban Engineer          2                3          Collection as a percentage of billing
Urban Planner                                       for 1991 has been disappointing.
Munfi. Engineer
Supervision 10      6/92       2        8.70    Munic. Engineer          2                3          NMB have stated that they may no
Rating & Evalua.                      ~~~~~~~~longer be prepared to honor their
agreement of fund I100/o of the Benue
and Gongola Sub-Projects. FMFED
have still not signed the amendment
of August 2, 1990. The Ondo State
agreement cannot be signed until
this is done. Prioritization Studies:
progress has been halted on
prioritization studies because the
;niitial allocation has not been made
to the FMWH Special Account from
which they are to be funded.
Supervision 11     12/92       3         1.2     Task Manager            2                2          NMB's financial participation
Fin. Analyst                                        continues to b,e uncertain.
Infras. Engineer
Supervision 12      7/91       1         2.0     Fin, Analyst            2                 2         NMB's financial participation my be
resolved shordy
Supervision 13      7/93       3         2.0     Task Manager            2                2          Counterpart fund provision by
Fin. Analyst                                        Benue and Kogi States and NMB
Infras. Engineer                                    have still not met the accrued
backlog of N9 million, nor have they
increased their monthly contribution
to N660,000 as had been agreed with
NWB in July. NMB have still not
made a firm commitment to meet
their share of the funding. Final
works contract embraces both Benue
& Kogi States, and thus cannot be
signed until a decision is reached on
the sharing of assets and liabilities.
Supervision                                      Urb94 35  ank Plannger  2                2          Property taxes: collection as a
Urbnf PlaEngneer                                    percentage of billing for 1991 has
Supervsion 4   3/94 3   5.1 Infi-as. Engineer  2been disappointing; 26% in
Adamawa/Taraba and 8% in
Benue/Kogi.
Supervision 15      8/94                 =       Infra. Engineer         5                 5
Supervision 16      9/94       2         1.2     Fin. Analyst            5                 5          Govemor of Adamawa unilaterally
Infras. Engineer                                   fired the project manager of the joint
project unit covering both states,
immediately prior to the mission
Supervision 17     11/94       3         1.0     Urban Planner
Municipal Eng.
_ _ _ _ _ ___    Fin. Analyst                            I



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions (cont'd)
Parbim   Rating
Number                 Specialized     Implementabion     Development
Stage of     Monthl      of     Days in       Staff Skills        Status          Objecives         Types of
Project Cycle   Year    Persons    Field        Represented                                           Problems
Supervision 18      5/95        3         4.8     Sr. Munic. Eng.          U
Urban Planner
Infirs. Engineer
Supervision 19      6/96        2         1.8     Sr. Munic. Eng.          U                 u          Progress has been disappointing
Inhs. Engineer                                        since June 1995. Implementation
and consequently disbursement has
been slow: protracted procurement
poor performance by the contractors,
exacerbated b y delayed payments
and the inability of states and their
PFls to comply with the Banks'
documentation requirements for
disbursement especially with regard
to the operation special accounts.
Completion          5/97        2          2      Urban Specialist
M_iM. Engineer          u_u



APPENDIX A
BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR



f: :::



FEDERAL MINISTRY OF WORKS & HOUSING
DEPT. OF LANDS, ENVIRONMENT, URBAN & REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Plot 797 Adeto Aem             re     use II, Abuja.
Ref. NoURD*222/TC/T2/37
Tel                                                             Date:. December 5, 1997
Mr. Alan Carroll,
Senior Urban Development Specialist,
Water and Urban Group 2,
Africa Region,
The World Bank,
1818 H Street, N.W.,
Washington D.C. 20433,
U.S.A.
IDF PROJECT (LOAN 2925)
COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT COMPLETION REPORT
Please find attached the comments of the Federal Ministry of Works and
Housing on the draft Implementation Completion Report for the IDF Project.
We observed that the draft report contains some distortion of the facts and
%all for amendments to reflect our comments and observations.
2.  Also find enclosed the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing Completion
Report on the project.
. O.  c bayo
Deputy  irector (Urban & Regional
Development Division (URD)
for: Honourable Minister



IDF PROJECT (LOAN 2925): COMMENTS BY FMW&H ON THE
DRAFT COMPLETION REPORT
A.     GENERAL
1.0         The draft completion report is generally biased and failed to
present an accurate assessment of the IDF project implementation
In Nigeria. The report failed to analyse the pjroject in a wholistic
manner but rather c6mmented on issues out of context. Through
out the document, FMW&H was seen as the implementing agency
contrary to its role of supervision and monitoring.  Also, the
document did not recognise the project mid-term review and the
performance audit submitted to the Bank In the course of
project implementation.
1.1         The draft ICR assessment of performance and achievements
followed the same line in which the SAR allocated roles without
due regard to constitutional responsibilities existing in the
country for urban infrastructure development. - Some of the
shcrtcomlngs identified, particularly with respect to FMW&H, arose
from limitations Imposed by the Constitution.  For example, the
Issues of Solid Waste Management and property taxation are exclusive-
ly the responsibilities of Local Governments. Federal Government
Intervention could, at best, be subtle and persuasive rather than
pro-active as expected in the draft ICR.
B.     SPECIFIC COMMENTS
2.0         Reference to page 6 under "Major Factors Affecting the
Project". The draft ICR did not present a balanced assessment.
There were some factors subject to World Bank control which should
be noted. One of such factors was the failure of the Bank to
review its lending strategy under the IDF project inspite of early
and sufficient signals(which the Bank acknowledged and discussed)
pointing to macro-economic and governance problems in Nigeria. To
have ignored such signals affected the project substantially.
2.1         Reference to page 8 paragraph 39. The assessment of FMW&H
with respect to matters of training for State Government officials
../2



-2-
and the PFis should be taken-with' full regard to the various
changes In the Implementation and financial arrangements. Though,
the project allocated funds for training to FMW&H, the failure to
utilize the total sum arose from the following:
(l) It was realised that all State sub-projects had financial
allocation for training and should have drawn up training
programmes to meet their specific requirements. Further
utilization of FMWSH allocatlon for training of State Government
staff would have amounted to duplication of efforts.
(ll) Upon PFIs rejection of the original financing arrangements,
there was no longer the rational for utilizing public funds for
training private sector operators.
These Issues were clearly understood at the mid-term review and
led to the financial reallocation of US$2.7million from FMW&H a!loca-
;lon. The completion report Is so silent on the World B3nk app inted
Training Consultant Who did not achieve any tangible result on the IDF 1.
2.2         Reference to page 10 paragraph 49. The assessment of
Bank performance is Incomplete without mentioning the substantial
delays In project Implementation arising from delayed processing
of documents requiring clearance. In particular, documents kept
months with the Municipal Engineer at the Resident Mlssion without
action. The cases of Edo and Borno States were examples. It is
also not fair to Ignore the role of the Bank In the appointment of
Inexperienced Consultant In the States, the result of which led to
very poor performance. Before the project was 'hijacked' by the
Resident Mission, all the Contractors and Consultants appointed
In Gongola and Benue States under FMW&H supervision and leadership
performed creditably as appropriate processes and procedures
gulded their selectlon.
2.3         Reference to page 10 paragraph 50. The FMW6H take serious
objection to the statement that "the FMWSH played a generally passive
reactive role" under the IDF I project. The statement Is frivolous
and In bad taste. Within the limits of Bank's rules and regulations,
and bearing In mind the "agreed need to limit bureacratic bottlenecks"
In project Implementation process, the FMWSH played sufficlently
..3



-3-
active roles' In project monitoring and provided leadership. The
engagement of a management Consultant to assist In project super-
Vision was a demonstration of the commitment of FMW&H to the
project. For the Bank to-have considered the work of the Consultant
successful itR'ests to this fact.   Natfoiial leadership and direction
was provided through the following actions and achievements during
the course of project implementation:
(1)  Review and promulgation of the Urban and Reglonal
Planning Decree of 1988;
(ii)  Preparation of the National Urban Development Policy
for Nigeria (Part of the funding for this was met from
the IDF support to FMWSH); and
(it!)  Establishment of Urban Development Bank of Nigeria Plc.
(UDBN). A restructuring study of the Bank was financed
from the IDF support of FMW&H.
3.0        It is agreed that the IDF I was premised upon a rather
ambitious "long-term lending strategy" and the achievement of a
"wholesaling Mechanism" was a tall order considering the level of
development of the public and financial sectors in Nigeria at the
time of project appraisal. Also, the supervision of the project In
11 States and 49 sub-projects was an enormous challenge. As
indicated in the borrowers completion report, future Bank sponsored
projects and programmes should address specific urban issues and be
sp'read within  a reasonable geographical area for effective impact.
Also, project design and appraisal should articulate "project performance
Iidicators" for easy measurement of success or failure.
3.1        Finally, the draft completion report should be reviewed sub-
stantially to reflect a balanced assessment of the situation and
address issues concerning the implementation of the project rationally.



APPENDIX B
BORROWER'S EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT



I



INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
FUND (IDF) PROJECT:
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (PCR)
PREPARED BY
FEDERAL MINSTRY OF WORKS AND HOUSING
URBAN AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT DIVISION
OCTOBER, 1997



A.   PROJECT   DESCRIPTION
1.01 The Infrastructure Development Fund (IDF) Project was established in
1985 as a collaborative effort between the Federal Governrnent of Nigeria and
the World Bank. This was in response to the need to develop local capacity and
expertise in assisting State and Local Government authorities to identify,
prionitize, appraise and finance urban infrastructure projects. The World Bank
provided, through a loan facility to the Federal Govemment, funds to complement
local resources to rehabilitate and maintain existing infrastructure, while at
the same time efforts were made to improve and expand the local revenue base
of the States and local governrments. Also, attempts were made at improving the
local financial market to facilitate the participation of the private sector in the
provision and maintenance of basic urban infrastructure and services.
PROJECT BACKGROUND
2.01 In post independent Nigeria, urban infrastructure development and
management were characterised by inadequate funding, poor designs arising
from adaptation of inappropriate standards and legislations, disjointed
administrative framework, lack of maintenance and general uncoordinated
efforts. The problems were further compounded during the oil boom era of the
1 970s with the abolition of local tax systems, reduced incentives for cost recovery
and inadequate development of local revenue base. At the same period,
government borrowed heavily at inappropriate terms and often for poorly selected
projects. The resultant effects in the urban sector was a huge backlog of unmet
need in infrastructure and services coupled with the deterioration of the existing
stock. X
2.02  In order to redress the problems, the Federal Government sought the
assistance of the World Bank in 1977 and established the Nigerian States Urban
Development Programme (NSUDP). Under the programme, the Bank provided
both financial and techrncal assistance in Bauchi, Imo and Lagos States. While
the Bauchi and Imo projects focussed essentially on the provision of low cost
housing, the Lagos project emphasised city-wide infrastructure development and
maintenance. Based on the lessons learnt on the NSUDP projects, the Federal
Government and the World Bank agreed to shift emphasis to the provision and
maintenance of basic urban infrastructure and services in subsequent
collaboration. By 1985. the infrastructure Development Fund (IDF) was
established to address the issues of long term financing of urban infrastructure
in Nigeria.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.01  The Infrastructure Development Fund (IDF) was set-up primarily to
achieve the following objectives:
-    to establish a,finance mechanism that would assist States to manage,
maintain and consolidate existing urban infrastructure and services and improve
their financial management and resource mobilization;
-    to monitor and impr-ove their financial management and resource
mobilization;
I



-    to monitor and improve the credit worthiness and revenue base of State
Governments to make urban services self financing;   and
-    to help States prepare infrastructure projects and develop their capacity
for project execution.
The Staff Appraisal Report on the IDF sumnmarised the Banks long term lending
strategy for Nigeria as follows:
-    the project will support the establishment of a sustainable wholesale
mechanism to fund priority urban investments;
-    the project will promote fiscal self-sufficiency at the State level, and a
more efficient, equitable and sustainable delivery of urban
services;
-     the project will support the State in making the necessary fiscal
adjustments, primarily through a more rational allocation of investment funds,
and through mobilisation of local financial resources;
-    through the project, a market for State and municipal bonds for financing
of infrastructure progranimmes of State and Local authorities will be developed;
*    by bringing the private sector to operate together with the public sector,
the private sector approach to business will be introduced into the public
system thereby increasing efficiency of the sector; and
*    through the interaction with the PFIs, financial discipline will be introduced
into the system.
.02   In line with the broad objectives of the Fund, the implementation of the project
was to hinge on a mutual collaboration between the public and private sectors. In
this regard, five leading Merchant Banks were initially selected to be used as financial
Intermediaries between the Bank and beneficiary States.
3.03 Towards the realisation of the set objectives, a project guidelines was put
together. It sets out detailed criteria for subproject selection and appraisal of
urban infrastructure projects. Also, the guidelines define the eligible
infrastructure that could be financed under the loan. Listed as eligible
infrastructure are roads and drains rehabilitation and extension, urban water
supply, solid waste management, markets, motor parks, abattoirs and so on. In
addition to eligibility criteria, the guidelines also set out sub-sector objectives
and technical design criteria.
B    ASSESSMELNT  OF OBJECTIVES
4.01 The IDF project w-as implemented over a period of about seven years. It
should be noted that the loan was signed between the parties on August 4, 1989
and it became effective in April, 1990. The loan finally closed on June 30, 1997
after a three year extenision period.
2



4.02 A major objective of the IDF project was to establish a wholesale financial
mechanism to fund priority urban investment. The general climate in the
financial sector of the economy in the late 1 980s gave a dleceptive indication that
such a concept as wholesaling of funds through the Merchant Banks were possible
and indeed desirable. However, events of the early 1990s leading to the total
collapse of the financial sector show that the IDF project was predicated on poor
forecast of the financial sector. The objective was based on the assumption that
the trend of development in the financial sector will be sustained over time.
Also, the objectives of promoting fiscal self-sufficiency at the State level, through
necessaiy fiscal adjustments and more rational allocation of investment funds
were based on the assumptions of a dynamic relationship between the public
and private sectors.
PHYSICAL
4.03 The short term objective of the IDF project to assist the States to prepare
and fund infrastructure projects would be considered to have taken into
consideration the financial and institutional capacities of the States. The project
provided for technical support along side the loan facility. However, political
instability as manifested in the constant changes of State priorities in project
selection was a major limiting factor in achieving the physical objective.
MANPOWER AND INSTITUTIONAL
4.04 The critical factors in the achievement of the broad objectives set for the
IDF project were manpower capacity and institutional arrangement for delivery
of seivices. Although, the project provided for training to improve the quality of
manpoNwer, little was put in place to set the institutions in line with the objectives.
The complexity of the civil service was not put into appropriate perspective in
the project design which seek to forge a more dynamic collaboration between the
public and private sectors for better project implementation.
The underlying assumptions with respect to resource availablity, manpower
development and institutional capacity in the design of the objectives of the IDF
project have been put to test during the seven years of project implementation.
Unlike a purely physical development project, the IDF project was aimed at
improving the operating environment for urban infrastructure and services
deliverv as well as fundamental transformation of orientation and procedure of
institutions. Such changes would require considerably longer time-frame than
the life of a loan facility, the promotional consideration of the project
notwithstanding. The first few years of project implementation were more of a
learning period. A good example of the lessons learned was demonstrated in the
extension of the Taraba State sub-project. The selection and appraisal of the
sub-project components were carried out with very little delay and execution
was done within the contract period.
C.   ASSESSMENT OF ELIGIBILITY  CRITERIA AND  DESIGN
OBJECTIVES
.-.01 The project guidelines provided a detailed criteria for the selection and
3



appraisal of urban infrastructure and services. Eligible infrastructure covered
the range of rehabilitation of exiting roads and drainage, water supply, electricity,
solid waste management, market and motor-parks. Also, the guidelines articil' ted
the subproject design objectives. However, it has been observed that subproject
selection was characterised by excessive variety which introduced complications
in the selection process and opened it to unlimited options and possibilities for
politically motivated interference.
While the design objectives provided a focus with respect to target population,
standards and costs, project implementation problems led to loss of focus and poorly
designed subproject. In some noticeable cases, the selection and design of
subprojects were done in violation of set rules and with little or no regard to the
objectives.
IMPLEMENTATION    STRATEGY
6.01 The initial lending arrangement for the IDF was for a total of
USD63.7million equivalent to be provided as a line of credit to thu Federal
Government of Nigeria (FGN) and to be on-lent to the PFIs to finance identified
and prioritized State urban infrastructure projects.
At the State level, the implementation of subproject were to be coordinated by the
agency of government concerned with urban development. Thus, the Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU) were to be located in the Ministry responsible for urban
planning and development.
After "a few years of implementation, the strategy exhibited the following
characteristics:
*    complex lending arrangement requiring five types of legal
agreements;
*    the allocation of risks, foreign exchange risk and credit risk
became veiy topical and contentious. The lending and legal
arrangements were subsequently restructured to reallocate
these risks; and
*    project coordinating units were found to be located in Ministries
other than those responsible for urban planning and development.
The lack of professional competence in such cases delaved project
implementation and resulted in increased overhead costs.
D.   PROJECT   ACHIEVEMENTS
7.01 Physical Works
Assessed against the backdrop of a huge backlog of wumet infrastructure
needs and declining services at the inception, the IDF project achieved considerable
success in the provision, rehabilitation and maintenance of selected infrastructure.
In general, the project achieved about 90% of targeted physical works across the
4



twelve States that participated in the programme. (See table 1). The types of
infrastructure financed under the project included roads    and    drainage
rehabilitation, water supply, solid waste Management, market development, motor
parks and electricity supply.
7.02 Apart from physical interventions to rehabilitate existing roads and drainage,
the project financed the procurement of necessaiy maintenance equipment and
tools. Solid Waste Management Schemes received the largest support in fund
allocation in this regard.
LIMITING, FACTORS
7.03 Achievements in physical works were severely limnited for a number of
reasons. Major constraints include the following:
*    the large variety of eligible infrastructure under the project
led to selection of small components of each type of infrastructure
thereby spreading the available funds thinly. Overall project impact
in terms of physical works was limited.
*    as a result of inflation in the Nigerian economy and the rapid
depreciation of the Naira, project costs escalated beyond what the
State Governments could afford leading to substantial reduction in
scope of works. (At the time of appraisal of the IDF project in 1987/88
the exchange rate was USD to four naira, midstream into the piroject,
one USD was exchanging for between 75-80 naira).
*    poor selection and performance of Contractors. Most of the contracts
slipped beyond completion date by more than 12 months.
*    subproject design and implementation did not allocate any specific
role to the immediate beneficiaries and stakeholders in the projects.
The resulting alienation caused project delay and put into question
the "ownership" of the project.
*    institutional instabilty during the entire period of project
implementation.
*    complexity of Bank procedure in the selection and appointment of
Contractors and Consultants. A situation in which eveiy item had to
be cleared from Washington caused delay in project realisation.
*    bottlenecks in the institutional arrangement for project supervision
and monitoring both at Federal and State levels.
FINANCING
7.03 The thrust of the IDF project was to hinge on the development of the financial
sector in the Nigerian economy to fund urban infrastructure projects. Attempts
through the IDF project to achieve the set objectives for the improvement of the
5



PHYSICAL WORKS - ROADS. DRAINS AND WATER SUPPLY  TABLE 1
__ _   A                 B              C               D              E          F
SIN       STATE          TOTAL LENGTH OF      TOTAL LENGTH   NO OF CULVERTS LENGTH OF        % OF COM- REMARKS
ROADS REHABILI-     OF D)RAINAGE   IPROVII)ED      WATER I)ISTRIB- PLET'ION
TATED               LINE REHABILI-                  UTION NETWORK- AS AT JUNE
TATED                          (PIPELINES)    AS_A_JUN
1.        Adamawa        7,927 (m)            9,143 (m)            43          42,798.01m    100%
2.        Benue          15.2 (km)            2,189 (m)     1.4km Box Culvert     28,800m3  100%
3.        Ondo/Ekiti     10.7 (km)            1.6km                N/A            29,000m   90%
4.        Edo            N/A                  N/A                  N/A            28, 100m   100%
5.        Enugu          3.3 km               6.6 km               13             2275m      90%
6.    Plateau/Nasarawa   9.43 (km)        Open earth drains        31             9.5 (km)   100%
(15,847m)
7.        Taraba         9,079 (m)            16,420 (m)           756                       100%
8.        Borno          5,835 (m)            8,691.5 (m)          45                        90%
9.        Yobe           16,043 (m)           26,267 (m)           170                       90%
10.       Anambra        13,253.3 (m)         24,857 (m)           58             .          90%
11.       Kogi           8,115 (m)            17,170 (m)           984                       90%



financial sector failed to yield desired results. Even with the establishment of the
Urban Development Bank of Nigeria (UDBN), not much has been done by the
banking sector to assist States in funding priotity projects. A major observation
through the project implementation period was the low level of participation by
the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF).
LIMITING FACTORS
7.04 The following factors placed limitations on the realisation of the objectives
set for the improvement and development of the financial sector:
*    Frequent policy changes by government sometimes leading
to conflicting signals.
*    General instability in the banking sector which culninated in a near
total collapse of the money market and the erosion of the assets and
net worth of the banks.
*    Large staff turnover in the banking sector resulting in low capacity
to gain experience on the job. Also, PFIs staffers who had received
training in respect of the project were relocated.
*    PFIs rejection of the initial financing arTangement leading to the
erosion of the rational for using public funds to train staffers of the
banks in World Bank procedures.
INSTITUTIONAL
7.05 A critical deficiency that was to be corrected through the IDF project was
the institutional capacity at all levels of government to deliver urban infrastructure
and services efficiently. The practice in Nigeria has been that the public sector
provides urban infrastructure and services. Thus a key objective of the IDF project
was the development of institutional capacity for urban project selection, appraisal
and execution. It was envisaged that by bringing the private sector to operate
together with the public sector, the private sector approach to business will be
introduced into the public system thereby increasing efficiency in the system.
The project provided for training, procurement of equipment and technical support.
7.06 In the course of project implementation, training programmes were organised
for project operatives both by the World Bank and Federal Ministrv of Works and
Housing. Some officials of the Ministry and beneficiary State Governrments also
attended training courses locally and overseas. The State Project implementation
Units were strengthened by the provision of technical support in the areas of
auditing and accounting. Basic office equipment, project vehicles and conducive
environment were also provided within the PIU. Most of the PlUs operated outside
the usual civil seivice working schedule as the closing time extended beyond the
normal working hours of public sector employees. The experiences gained on the
IDF in project implementation by the PIU has been very useful. Manv staff of the
unit were attached to Consultants and Contractors in detailed engineering design,
project supervision and executioni. For the gains to be sustained, the PIU in the
States should be constituted into the implementation arm of the States, while the
Ministries take the role of policy development and monitoring.
6



7.07 However, the various interventions that were to be introduced to assist the
State Ministries of Finance and Accountant General's office in Gongola, Benue and
Ondo States were not implemented. The focus of the project was on the PIU, a
temporary out fit put together for project execution. Thus, through support for
equipment and training, as well as on-the-job training, the IDF project has facilitated
capacity building and institutional development.
LIMITING FACTORS
7.08 Achievements in institutional development and capacity building were
constrained by the following factors:
*    The IDF project concept and implementation strategy was very
new. Learning in the process took a considerably long time.
*    Initial low response of the States to IDF created long delay in project
take-off in most of the States. This is coupled with the delays
encountered as a result of complexity in legal documentation and
lending arrangements for the project.
EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE
8.01 Borrower's Performance
The Federal Government Agencies involved in the implementation of the
project where Federal Ministiy of Works and Housing, Federal Ministry of Finance
and the Central Bank of Nigeria. The Federal agencies were essentially concerned
with broad policy issues, guidance, monitoring and evaluation. They were also
to ensure compliance with set guidelines for the project.
FEDERAL MINISTRY OF WORKS & HOUSING
8.02 The Federal Ministry of Works and Housing was primarily responsible for
the IDF project at the Federal level and was to, among other things ensure the
following:
*    together with the World Bank and FMF, determine which bank
will participate in the project
*    monitor the application of the project guidelines and provide policy
guidance to the PFIs and the States
*    together with the FMF and CBN review the performance of the
project and caniy out an annual performance audit on the project
*    coordinate training and studies for future projects.
The FMW&H discharged its roles and responsibilities under the project. A major
achievement was the development of a National Urban Development Policy with
financial support from the project. The document has been ratified by government.
Also, during the period the Ministry successfully put in place the Nigerian Urban
and Regional Planning Law (1992). The policy and legislation are to further
7



guide urban development in Nigeria. Considerable success was recorded in
training and studies. Urban investment plioritization studies were concluded
for Borno, Niger, Ogun, Kogi, Kano, Edo and Akwa Ibom States under the project.
CONSTRAINTS
8.03 Performance of the FMW&H was constrained by the following:
*    late establishment of a formal Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) to
coordinate and monitor project implementation.
*    the World Bank did not allow the Ministiy to freely manage the
project as envisioned. The licensing of PFIs was taken over by the
Bank.
*    operating environment during the project life was severely restrictive.
*    although, the project was to be locally managed and supervised, it
later turned out that the project was being managed fromWashington.
The resultant effect was that the States were directly relating to
Washington rather than FMW&H.
FEDERAL MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND CENTRAL BANK OF NIGERIA
8.04 The IDF project guidelines clearly identified the roles of FMF and CBN in
the implementation of the project at the Federal level. The FMF was to render
necessarv assistance to the FMW&H, particularly in the review of the performance
of the PFIs, licensing of PFIs and review of the project guidelines. On the other
hand,,the CBN was to be responsible for maintaining and operating a control
account to record all financial transactions on the project and also monitor the
financial performance of the PFIs. While FMF collaborated with the FMW&H in
monitoring project performance through the level of fund draw-down, the CBN
impact was not felt in the project. The IDF Performance Audit carried out in
1996 shows that the present arrangement at the national level does not allow for
any active participation of the CBN in keeping records of extemal loans in a
control account at the CBN.
BENEFICIARY STATES
8.05 Essentially, the IDF project was State government oriented. The principal
executing agencv responsible for implementing the project at the State level was
the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The unit is responsible for the coordination
of all sub-project activities, administration, contract management and supervision.
The responsibilities of the State through the PIU may be summarised as follows:
*    co-ordination of all activities of all agencies involved in the sub-
project.
*    procurement and financial management including accounting,
auditing and control
*    technical supervision of sub-project components including technical
assistance, bid evaluation, development of selection criteria in
accordance with Bank guidelines.
8



In general, the State PlUs executed the various sub-projects successfully and
achieved the desired objectives in the physical works components. The project did
not however achieve its objectives with respect to the envisioned financial
discipline, institutional development and resource mobilisation.  This
notwithstanding, the project brought some considerable level of private sector
characteristics into State Operations.
CONSTRAINTS
8.06  Major constraints in the performance of the beneficiary States among other
things include:
*    increase in the share contribution of the States to the project arising
from non financial commitment of the PFIs.
*    Initial constraints of counterpart funds.
*    Location of the PIU in other Ministry outside the line Ministry
responsible for urban development. It should be recalled that in some
States the PIU was located under the Govemor's Office, while in
some others it was located in the Ministry of Finance.
In adequate technically qualified and experienced professionals in
the relevant fields.
*    Frequent changes in government functionaries, particularly at the
Chief Executive level. These changes sometimes result in change in
State priority in sub-project selection
*t   Instability in State administration leading to changes in project
operatives.
PERFORMANCE OF THE PFIs
9.01 The involvement of the PFIs was predicated upon strong belief that they
would be able to inject some private sector dynamism into project implementation
and guide them along the line of financial prudence and discipline. By the final
on-lending arrangement, the PFIs were to guarantee 10% of the loan and also
make financial commitments to the project up to 10% of the total project cost. In
general, the responsibilities of the PFIs fell into two categories namely, financial
management services and technical services. The PFIs were only able to discharge
their responsibilities in financial management services, which entailed basic
banking processes. In all the State sub-projects, the PFIs were unable to provide
any technical services and none of the banks made financial commitmnents to State
sub-projects.      v
Failure of the PFIs to fulfil their contractual obligations further placed financial
burden on the States. State share contribution to project implementation rose
from 10% to 25% of project cost.
9



It will be noted that the initial terms and conditions for the participation of the
PFIs had to be modified.
The resultant arrangement drastically reduced PFIs exposure to both credit and
foreign exchange risks. The modification led to poor commitment of the PFIs to
the IDF project inspite of the demonstrated interest in the project. It would
therefore seem as if the banks were merely interested in the foreign exchange
transactions involved in the IDF project. This was later to be proved as none of
them provided financial support to the State projects. Understandably, the crisis
that engulfed the banking sector in the 90's further complicated the position of
the banks as most of them almost became financially distressed.
9.02 Inspite of the PFIs difficulty in the areas of technical services and cash-
backing of sub-projects, they were able to manage the Project Accounts and Special
Accounts adequately. A significant contribution of the PFIs to the IDF project
was the evolution of the Standing Payment Order (SPO). The PFIs benefited
from the IDF project through training on Bank procedures in procurement and
disbursement, as well as learning on the job in project appraisal, evaluation and
management.
LIMITING FACTORS
9.03 The performance of the PFIs was constrained by the following:
Instability in the operating environment arising from political and
economic turmoil.
*    High rate of staff turn-over and poaching in the banking sector due
largely to the liberalization of government policy in the establishrnent
of banks. Too many new financial institutions came into existence
over a short period.
-*   The dearth of qualified and experienced professionals in the banking
sector. The IDF project required more than mere banking specialist
they were to render technical and management services.
*    Long delay in payment of PFI fees by the State Govemrnments.
*    Weak management and inadequate capital base. The selection of
the PFIs was primarily based on their track records and assessment
of their capital base. Within four years of assessment, some of the
banks had become grossly insolvent.
PERFORMANCE OF THE WORLD BANK
10.01. The IDF prolect received tremendous support from the Bank technically
and financially. The relationship between the Bank and the borrower remained
very cordial all through the project implementation period. However, some ciltical
bottlenecks identified at the World Bank level include the following:
10



*    Frequent changes of Project Task Managers by the Bank. Under the
IDF project, it was not the same Task Manager that prepared, the project
that implemented it. Also, another Task Manager came in towards the
close of the project.
*    World Bank guidelines on the project were considered too stiff.
The series of 'no objection' to be given by the Bank resulted in slow and
sometimes long delay in project implementation.
*    Although, the SAR clearly allocated roles and responsibilities among
the various actors on the IDF project, Bank staff especially the Municipal
Engineer at the Resident Mission took over the management of the project
leading to delay in processing of documents for approval, and thereby
usurped the functions of the borrower.
*    The winding system of the Bank in procurement matters with regards to
the series of 'no objection' being required at every stage is a major cause
of delay in project implementation.
LESSONS  LEARNED  IN  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION
I1.01 The implementation problems and constraints on the IDF projects have been
discussed in this report. Also, the Performance Audit Report (1996) summarizes the
various issues, problems and limitations on the project. The lessons learned in the
implementation of the project can be summarised as follows:
*  i The project implementation clearly indicated the deficiency in manpower
capacity at the various levels. A major lesson is to emphasize capacity
building to ensure proper project implementation in future projects.
*    The issue of post-implementation maintenance of projects has been
further accentuated by the project. Almost in all cases, post construction
maintenance has not been givendue attention notwithstanding the
articulation of such in the various operational plans submitted. The
cases of projects completed more than one year ago in Adamawa and
Benue States underscores the need to focus on maintenance issues.
*    In order to sustain the long term financing of urban development, the
IDF project has pointed to the need to further address institutional
arrangement for funding urban projects. One of the key objectives of the
project was to initiate long term financial mechanism to finance urban
projects. This has not been fully achieved inspite of the establishment of
the Urban Development Bank of Nigeria, UDBN.
*    It has been shown that for greater project impact, effort should be made
to address specific problems within smaller geographical areas rather
than spreading little funds over the whole country or in too    many
States and urban centres. Future projects should therefore be issued
specific, simple and cost effective.
11



*    The IDF project has shown the negative effect of the lack of
beneficiary participation in project design and implementation. In
most cases, the PlUs assumed full control over project selection,
design and implementation. Beneficiaries do not have the sense of
ownership and this may affect whatever maintenance programme
that is put in place.
*    On the issue of cost recovery, the project has again shown the
dimension of problems involved. In Benue, Adamawa and Taraba
States, the cost recovery efforts through property rating have failed
to yield desirable result,. There is the need to look beyond property
rating in cost recovery mechanisms for urban investment in Nigeria.
*    The IDF project has shown the preparedness of Govemment to
allow private sector participation in the provision and maintenance
of urban infrastructure through the involvement of the PFIs.
However, such must be encouraged by ensuring stability in the
economic and political climate over time.
*    In order to avoid long delay in project implementation, institutional
arrangements should be clearly defined and set into context during
project design. The location of the PIU should be in the line Ministry
responsible for the supervision of urban planning. Also, the legal
documentation process should be well defined to avoid delay in the
start-up of projects.
CONSIDERATION FOR FUTURE PROJECTS
11.02      Based on the lessons leamed on the IDF project and considering
the magnitude and complexity of urban development and management problems
in Nigeria, substantial public and private investments in infrastructure will be
required on a continuous and sustainable basis. Critical areas that require
underscoring in project selection, design and appraisal have been covered in this
report. However, it is important to re-emphasize the following:
*    Capacity building
*    Institutional strengthening and streamnlining of roles and
responsibilities.
*    Maintenance and management of infrastructure and urban services.
*    Improvements in land and environmental management at the city
level.
12



