Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2925 UNI
             (Infrastructure Development Fund Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                   NIGERIA MERCHANT BANK LIMITED
                       Dated August 4, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2925 UNI
                       NMB PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August  4,  1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NIGERIA MERCHANT
BANK LIMITED (NMB).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between Federal Republic of  Nigeria  (the Borrower) and the Bank,
the Bank has agreed to lend  to  the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixty-nine  million five hundred thousand
dollars ($69,500,000), on the  terms  and  conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement,  but  only  on  condition  that  NMB agrees to
undertake such obligations toward  the  Bank  as  are set forth in
this Agreement;
     (B)  by a subsidiary loan  agreement (the NMB Subsidiary Loan
Agreement) to be entered into  between  the Borrower and NMB, part
of the proceeds of the loan  provided for under the Loan Agreement
will be relent to NMB on terms and conditions set forth in the NMB
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
Page  2
     (C)  by Sub-loan agreements (the  NMB Sub-loan Agreements) to
be entered into between  NMB  and  Eligible  States of Nigeria the
proceeds of the Loan made available  to  NMB will be relent by NMB
to the Eligible States on  terms  and  conditions set forth in the
NMB Sub-loan Agreements; and
     WHEREAS NMB, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with  the  Borrower,  has  agreed  to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01. Whenever  used  in  this  Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several  terms defined in the Loan
Agreement and in the General  Conditions  (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein  set  forth  and  the term "free-limit
Sub-loan" shall mean a Sub-loan for  an Urban Project in an amount
to be financed by  NMB  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the Loan in an
Eligible  State  (other  than  Benue,  Gongola  or  Ondo  State of
Nigeria)  which  shall  not  exceed  the  sum  of  (i)  $2,000,000
equivalent, or  (ii)  $10,000,000  equivalent,  when  added to all
other free-limit Sub-loans financed or  proposed to be financed by
NMB and other PMBs out of  the proceeds of the Loan, the foregoing
amounts being subject to change from time to time as determined by
the Borrower and the Bank.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project;
                 Management and Operations of NMB
     Section 2.01. (a) NMB  declares  its commitment to the objec-
tives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
and conduct its operations  and  affairs, in accordance with sound
economic, banking  and  financial  standards  and  practices, with
qualified and experienced  management  and  in accordance with its
Charter and Statement of Policy.
     (b)  NMB undertakes that deposits  into, and payments out of,
the Special Account to  be  used  for  purposes  of  Part A of the
Project by NMB pursuant to Section  2.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement
(the NMB Special Account)  shall  be  made  in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.02. (a) NMB undertakes  that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, Sub-loans  will  be  made  in accordance with the
procedures and on the terms  and  conditions set forth or referred
to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  NMB undertakes to lend to any Eligible State to which it
agrees to make a Sub-loan, from NMB's own resources, not less than
10% of the funds  required  to  meet  the  total cost of the Urban
Project for which the Sub-loan is to be made.
     (c)  NMB shall exercise its rights  in relation to each Urban
Project in such manner  as  to:  (i)  protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank,  NMB  and  the Eligible States; (ii) comply
with its obligations under this Agreement, the NMB Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and the NMB  Sub-loan  Agreements; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
     Section 2.03.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the  goods  and  consultants' services required for
Part A of the Project and  to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Page  3
Agreement.
     Section 2.04.  NMB  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the  NMB  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  and  the NMB Sub-loan
Agreements. Except as the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree, NMB shall
not take or concur in  any  action  which would have the effect of
assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the NMB Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, the NMB Sub-loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05.  NMB  shall  open,  and  thereafter maintain, a
project account in the name  of  each  Eligible State to which NMB
makes a Sub-loan (the NMB Project Account) on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.  The  NMB  Project Account shall be used
exclusively to meet expenditures  made  by such Eligible State for
Part A of the Project.
     Section 2.06. (a) NMB shall,  at  the request of the Borrower
or the Bank, exchange views  with  the  Borrower and the Bank with
regard to the  progress  of  the  Project,  the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement,  the  NMB Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment and the NMB  Sub-loan  Agreements, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  NMB shall promptly inform  the  Borrower and the Bank of
any condition which interferes or  threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the  performance  by  NMB  of  its obligations under this
Agreement, the NMB Subsidiary Loan  Agreement and the NMB Sub-loan
Agreements.
                            Article III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) NMB  shall  maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record  the progress of each Urban Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to
reflect  in   accordance   with   consistently   maintained  sound
accounting practices  the  operations  and  financial condition of
NMB.
     (b)NMB shall:
          (i)  have  its  records,  accounts  (including  the  NMB
               Special Account and  the  NMB  Project Account) and
               financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
               income and expenses  and  related  statements)  for
               each  fiscal  year   audited,  in  accordance  with
               appropriate   auditing    principles   consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank,  as  soon  as available but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year:  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial   statements   for   such   year   as  so
               audited;and (B) the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well as the audit thereof as the Bank
               shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were  made  under Category (1) in Schedule 1
to the Loan Agreement on  the  basis of statements of expenditure,
NMB shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
Page  4
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one  year  after  the  Bank  has received the
               audit report for the fiscal  year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
        (iii)  enable    the    Borrower's    and    the    Bank's
               representatives to examine such records.
     (d)  NMB shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (c) (i) of this Section and those for the
               NMB Special Account and the NMB Project Account for
               each  fiscal  year   audited,  in  accordance  with
               appropriate   auditing    principles   consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year  the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have  reasonably  requested, including a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements  of  expenditure  submitted  during such
               fiscal year,  together  with  the  procedures   and
               internal controls  involved  in  their preparation,
               can  be  relied   upon   to   support  the  related
               withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
     Section 3.02. Beginning in May 1988, and annually thereafter,
NMB shall  discuss  with  the  Central  Bank  and  the Bank, NMB's
financial performance in relation to the Central Bank's guidelines
and,  where  necessary,   measures   to  improve  NMB's  financial
performance.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Effective Date; Termination
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Bank and of NMB thereunder  shall  terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:
          (i)  the  date  on   which   the  Loan  Agreement  shall
               terminate; or
         (ii)  a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Loan  Agreement   terminates  before  the  date
specified in paragraph (a)  (ii)  of  this Section, the Bank shall
promptly notify NMB of this event.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
Page  5
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at  such  other  addresses  as  such party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for Reconstruction
               and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145  (WUI)
     For NMB:
          (NCR Building)
          6 Broad Street
          P.O. Box 2413
          Lagos, Nigeria
      Cable address:                    Telex:
             COWRIE                           21475
             Lagos                            23332
                                              23333
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of NMB  or  by  NMB  on behalf of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Managing
Director,  or  by  such  other  person  or  persons  as  NMB shall
designate in writing, and NMB shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                        AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  6
                   By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                   NIGERIA MERCHANT BANK LIMITED
                   By /s/ A.K. Belgore
                      /s/ A.Y. Dangana
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
           Procedures; Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
Section I.  Operating Procedures
A.   Urban Project Proposals
1.   States desiring to  carry  out  an  Urban Project shall first
submit a proposal to  NMB.  NMB  shall  review the proposal in the
light of guidelines satisfactory to the  Bank,  and agree with the
State on any modifications required in the proposal.
2.   NMB  shall  also  advise  the  State  on  the  need  to begin
preparation of urban infrastructure investment studies.
B.Preparation
1.   Upon NMB and  the  State  reaching  general  agreement on the
proposal for the Urban Project, NMB shall conditionally commit the
required portion of its funds to  the Urban Project and inform the
Bank of the conditional commitment.
2.   NMB shall assist the  State  in  preparing terms of reference
for the preparation of the Urban Project and may provide initially
from its own resources financing  (on  the same terms as those for
Sub-loans) for any feasibility  studies  that may be required. Any
such  financing  may  be  included  in  the  Sub-loan    that  NMB
eventually makes to the State. NMB shall also review   the State's
progress with  its  urban  infrastructure  investment  studies and
assist, where necessary, with the  preparation of the studies. NMB
may ask  a  State  to  pay  a  fee  for  its  assistance  with the
preparation of the studies.
C.   Appraisal
     Upon completion  of  the  preparation  of  the proposed Urban
Project, NMB shall  appraise  the  proposed  Urban Project and may
charge an appraisal  fee.  The  appraisal  shall  include: (i) the
economic, technical and social  justification of the components to
be financed; (ii) the design  of civil works and specifications of
equipment and technical assistance; (iii) details of institutional
arrangements for execution  and  operations  and maintenance; (iv)
financial  arrangements  for  cost  recovery  and  operations  and
maintenance; and (v) financial targets for institutions which will
participate in carrying out the Urban Project.
D.   Final Processing, Reviews and Approvals
     An  Urban  Project  considered  by  NMB  to  be  suitable for
financing under the Project  (other  than  an  Urban Project to be
financed from the proceeds  of  a free-limit Sub-loan) shall first
be referred by NMB to the Bank for its review in consultation with
FMWH before being finally approved by  NMB.  Approval by the Board
of Directors  of  NMB  of  a  Sub-loan  request  by  a State shall
Page  7
constitute  authorization  to  that  State  to  make reimburseable
expenditures in respect of the Urban Project to be financed by the
Sub-loan.
2.   The Borrower's role in the processing of Sub-loans, except as
otherwise provided in this Agreement,  shall  be to carry out: (i)
ex post reviews of  Urban  Projects  and  the  performance of  NMB
through an annual performance audit;  and (ii) periodic reviews of
the policies and guidelines for carrying out the Urban Projects.
Section II.  Terms and Conditions  of  Sub-loans Applicable to All
             Eligible States
1.   All NMB  Sub-loan  Agreements  shall  be  made  on  terms and
conditions satisfactory to the  Bank. Every NMB Sub-loan Agreement
shall provide for: (i) payment  of  annual  interest at a rate not
exceeding 3.5 percentage points above the variable rate payable by
NMB to the Borrower under  the  NMB Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(ii) repayment of principal in not more than 15 years (including 3
years of grace).
2.   Expenditures for  goods  or  services  required  for an Urban
Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan  for  such  Urban  Project  shall have been
reviewed by the Bank in  consultation  with FMWH pursuant to  Part
D.1 of Section I of  this  Schedule  and, except as the Bank shall
otherwise  agree,  such  expenditures  shall  have  been  made not
earlier than ninety days  prior  to  the  date  on which  the Bank
shall have received the application and information required under
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan.
     (b)  the Sub-loan for such  Urban  Project  shall have been a
free-limit Sub-loan for which  the  Bank has authorized withdrawal
from the Loan Account and  such  expenditures shall have been made
not earlier than ninety days prior  to  the date on which the Bank
shall have received  the  request  and  information required under
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule  in  respect of such free-limit
Sub-loan.
3.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Bank for  review,  NMB  shall  furnish to the Bank an
application, in form satisfactory to  the Bank, together with: (i)
an appraisal of the Urban  Project  including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Loan; (ii) the  proposed  terms  and  conditions  of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization  of the Sub-loan; and (iii)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each  request   by   NMB   for   authorization  to  make
withdrawals from the Loan Account  in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan  shall  contain:  (i)  a  summary  description  of  the Urban
Project, including a description  of  the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the  proceeds  of  the Loan; and (ii) the terms
and  conditions  of  the   Sub-loan,  including  the  schedule  of
amortization therefor.
     (c)  Applications made  pursuant  to  the  provisions of sub-
paragraph (a) above shall be  presented  to  the Bank on or before
March 31, 1991.
4.   Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby NMB shall obtain, by
written contract with the  Eligible  State or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank,
the Borrower and NMB, including,  in  the case of any Sub-loan the
right to:
     (a)  require  the  Eligible  State  to  carry  out  the Urban
Project with due diligence and  efficiency and in accordance  with
sound  technical,  financial  and   managerial  standards  and  to
Page  8
maintain adequate records;
     (b)  require that: (i) the goods  and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of  the  Loan  shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) such
goods and services shall be  used  exclusively in the carrying out
of the Urban Project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Bank, if the Bank shall  so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included  in the Urban Project, the
execution thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
     (d)  require that: (i) the Eligible  State shall take out and
maintain with responsible  insurers  such  insurance, against such
risks and in  such  amounts,  as  shall  be  consistent with sound
administrative practice; and (ii)  without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such  insurance  shall  cover  hazards  incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery  of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Sub-loan to  the place of use or installation,
any indemnity thereunder to be  made  payable in a currency freely
usable by the Eligible State to replace or repair such goods;
     (e)  obtain all such information as the Bank, the Borrower or
NMB shall reasonably request relating  to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Eligible
State and the benefits to be derived from the Urban Project; and
     (f)  suspend or terminate the right  of the Eligible State to
the use of  the  proceeds  of  the  Sub-loan  upon failure by such
Eligible State to perform its  obligations under its contract with
NBM.
5.   Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree:
     (a)  If a Sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to NMB
in advance of maturity or if  a Sub-loan or any part thereof shall
be sold, transferred, assigned or  otherwise disposed of for value
by NMB, NMB shall promptly notify  the  Borrower and repay  to the
Borrower on the  next  following  interest  payment date, together
with the premiums specified in Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement or
in any  amendment  thereof  under  Section  2.07  (a)  of the Loan
Agreement, the amount withdrawn  from  the Loan Account in respect
of such Sub-loan or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the
Bank.
     (b)  Paragraph (b) of Section  3.04 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment  made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.
Section III.  Additional  Terms   and   Conditions   of  Sub-loans
              Applicable to  Benue,  Gongola  and  Ondo  States of
              Nigeria
     Without limitation or restriction to the preceding provisions
of this Schedule, in  the  event  that  NMB should decide to enter
into an NMB  Sub-loan  Agreement  with  any  one  of the following
Eligible  States,  namely,  Benue,  Gongola  and  Ondo  States  of
Nigeria, the terms and  conditions  of  the NMB Sub-loan Agreement
shall, inter alia, require such  State  to carry out the following
actions specified below in relation to the State:
A.   Benue State
(1)  Establishment of a  Project  Management and Coordination Unit
in a form and  with  functions  satisfactory  to  the Bank and the
appointment to the said  Unit  of  a Project Manager with qualifi-
cations and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
(2)  Appointment  of  consultants  for:  (i)  detailed engineering
design of all major civil  works;  and (ii) the solid waste study,
Page  9
included in the Urban Project.
(3)  The signing of an agreement with the Federal Mortgage Bank of
Nigeria (FMBN) for the financing of initial detailed design for at
least the first two years of the Urban Project.
(4)  Appointment of a chief  valuation officer with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
(5)  Introduction   of   a   property   rating   valuation  system
satisfactory to the Bank.
(6)  (a)  Annual review and  determination  of  the level of water
tariffs and recurrent subvention to be  made by Benue State to the
Benue State Water Corporation (BSWC).
     (b)  Adjustment, as necessary, of the said tariffs to a level
adequate to enable BSWC to meet,  with respect to its water supply
operations,   at  least  50%  of  its  cash  operating expenses by
December 31, 1989, 75%  by  December  31,  1991,  and 100% of such
expenses by December 31, 1993.
(7)  The making of arrangements  satisfactory  to the Bank for the
payment of proceeds of property tax collected by Benue State (less
the  cost  of  administering  the  tax  evaluation)  to  the local
governments of Makurdi, Gboko, Otukpo and Idah.
(8)  As a condition precedent to  NMB presenting the Urban Project
to its Board of Directors for approval:
          (i)  completion by Benue State  of the design and tender
               documents for at least the  first year of the Urban
               Project;
         (ii)  establishment  by  Benue   State   of  the  Project
               Management and Coordination Unit; and
        (iii)  appointment by Benue State of an adequate number of
               staff   to   (A)   the   Project   Management   and
               Coordination Unit; and (B)  to Benue State's Rating
               Valuation Authority.
(9)  As a condition precedent to the effectiveness of the NMB Sub-
loan  Agreement,  deposit  by  Benue  State  of  the  first year's
counterpart fund requirements into the NMB Project Account.
B.   Gongola State
(1)  (a)  Adoption of  a  system  of  property  valuation, rating,
billing and collection satisfactory to the Bank.
     (b)  Establishment of a  Property  Rating and Evaluation Unit
in a form and with functions satisfactory to the Bank.
(2)  Satisfactory  definition  of  the  respective  functions  and
responsibilities of the Gongola  State Urban Planning and Develop-
ment Authority (GSUPDA) and the local government authorities.
(3)  Adoption of a system satisfactory to the Bank of apportioning
the proceeds of Gongola State's property tax.
(4)  Gazette notification  of:  (i)  the  establishment  of GSUPDA
including  details  of  its  functions;  and  (ii)  the  system of
apportioning proceeds of property tax referred to in (3) above.
(5)  Preparation of a  five  year  (1988-1992)  corporate plan for
GSUPDA satisfactory to the  Bank clearly outlining GSUPDA's objec-
tives, program, organization, staffing  and  budget, and the means
by which this corporate plan will be implemented.
(6)  The provision in Gongola  State's  budget of funds sufficient
to enable GSUPDA to carry out its responsibilities under the Urban
Page  10
Project.
(7)  Establishment within GSUPDA of  a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) in a form and with functions satisfactory to the Bank.
(8)  Appointment of a Project  Manager for PIU with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
(9)  Signing of  an  agreement  with  FMBN  for  financing initial
detailed design and  engineering  work  required  for at least the
first two years of  the  civil works construction program included
in the Urban Project.
(10) Appointment of consultants  for  detailed  engineering of all
major civil works and  commencement of detailed engineering design
work relating to the Urban Project.
(11) (a)  Annual review and  determination  of  the level of water
tariffs and recurrent subvention  to  be  made by Gongola State to
the Water Division of the Gongola State Utilities Board.
     (b)  Adjustment, as necessary, of the said tariffs to a level
adequate to enable the  said  Board  to  meet, with respect to its
water supply  operations,  at  least  50%  of  its  cash operating
expenses by December  31,  1989,  December  31,  1991, and 100% by
December 31, 1993.
(12) As conditions precedent to  NMB  presenting the Urban Project
to its Board of Directors for approval:
          (i)  the  establishment   of   a   Property  Rating  and
               Valuation  Unit  in  a   form  and  with  functions
               satisfactory to  the  Bank  within  the Ministry of
               Local Government;
         (ii)  the provision in  Gongola  State's  budget of funds
               sufficient to  enable  the  Unit  to  carry out its
               responsibilities under the Urban Project; and
        (iii)  completion by Gongola State of detailed engineering
               designs  (including  cost  estimates  and  contract
               documents) for at least the first year of the civil
               works contruction  program  relating  to  the Urban
               Project.
(13) As conditions precedent to the  effectiveness of the NMB Sub-
loan Agreement:
          (i)  appointment  of  a  chief  valuation  officer  with
               qualifications and  experience  satisfactory to the
               Bank and  completion  of  actions  required for the
               start-up of operations of the Unit;
         (ii)  appointment    of    a    project    manager   with
               qualifications and  experience  satisfactory to the
               Bank to head PIU;
        (iii)  appointment and assignment to  PIU of an accountant
               and at least two engineers, all with qualifications
               and experience satisfactory to the Bank;
         (iv)  the completion of actions required for PIU to begin
               operations; and
          (v)  Deposit  by  Gongola  State  of  the  first  year's
               project counterpart  funding  requirements into the
               NMB Project Account.
C.   Ondo State
(1)  Establishment by Ondo State of  a Project Planning and Imple-
Page  11
mentation Unit in a  form  and  with functions satisfactory to the
Bank and appointment of a Project Director with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank.
(2)  Appointment by the State of consultants for detailed design.
(3)  Signing of  an  agreement  with  FMBN  for financing detailed
design for at  least  the  first  two  years of the infrastructure
improvement works program relating to the Urban Project.
(4)  (a)  Annual review and  determination  of  the level of water
tariffs and recurrent subvention to  be  made by Ondo State to the
Ondo State Water Corporation (OSWC).
     (b)  Adjustment, as necessary, of the said tariffs to a level
adequate to enable OSWC to meet at least 50% of its cash operating
expenses by December 31, 1989, 75%  by December 31, 1991, and 100%
by December 31, 1993.
(5)  As conditions precedent to  NMB  presenting the Urban Project
to its Board of Directors for approval:
          (i)  appointment  of  adequate  staff  for  the  Project
               Planning and Implementation Unit;
         (ii)  establishment of a Rating  Valuation Unit in a form
               and with functions satisfactory to the Bank;
        (iii)  preparation  of  detailed  cost  estimates  for all
               infrastructure improvements  included  in the Urban
               Project; and
         (iv)  completion of  tender  documents  for  at least the
               first year of the infrastructure improvements works
               program relating to the Urban Project.
(6)  As conditions precedent to the  effectiveness of the NMB Sub-
loan Agreements:
          (i)  appointment of a Head  of  the Rating and Valuation
               Unit    with    qualifications    and    experience
               satisfactory to the Bank;
         (ii)  completion  of  action  satisfactory  to  the  Bank
               necessary  to  increase  property  taxes  and their
               collection; and
        (iii)  deposit of  the  first  year's  project counterpart
               fund requirements into the NMB Project Account.
                            SCHEDULE 2
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   (i)  Bidders for works required under Urban Projects shall be
          prequalified  as  described  in  paragraph  2.10  of the
          Guidelines.
    (ii)  To the extent  practicable,  contracts  for vehicles and
          equipment required under Urban Projects shall be grouped
          in bid packages estimated  to  cost an amount equivalent
Page  12
          to $300,000 or more for each package.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Except  as  provided  in  paragraph  2  of  this  Part, works
estimated to cost an amount  equivalent  to less than $500,000 may
be procured under contracts  awarded  on  the basis of competitive
bidding,  advertised  locally,   in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Minor infrastructural  works  and  improvements  estimated to
cost an  amount  equivalent  to  less  than  $50,000  per  work or
improvement may be carried out  by the Eligible State concerned by
force account.
3.   Goods estimated to  cost  an  amount  equivalent to less than
$300,000 per contract, up to an  aggregate amount not to exceed an
amount equivalent to $1,000,000  in  the  case of any one Eligible
State, may be procured  under  contracts  awarded  on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited  from  a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under  the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 (i) hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to  cost an
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 or  more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such  contract  are  to  be  made out of theNMB
Special Account, such procedures shall  be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of  the contract required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to paragraph  2 (d) of said Appendix shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the NMB Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding subparagraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made  out of the NMB Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as  part of the evidence to be fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
3.   The  figure  of  10%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist NMB in carrying out Part A of the Project,
NMB shall require the Eligible  States to employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Such  consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
Page  13
to the Bank  on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                        NMB Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Category"  means  Category  (1) set
forth in the  table  in  paragraph  1  of  Schedule  1 to the Loan
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Urban Projects and to be financed  out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be  withdrawn  by NMB on behalf of the
Borrower under the  eligible  Category  and  deposited  in the NMB
Special Account.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
NMB  Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively  for  eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the NMB Special Account has  been  duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
NMB Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or  requests made by NMB on
behalf of the Borrower for a  deposit  or deposits which add up to
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Bank shall,
on behalf of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the Loan Account and
deposit in the NMB Special  Account  such amount or amounts as NMB
shall have requested.
     (b)  NMB shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment
of the NMB Special  Account  at  such  intervals as the Bank shall
specify. On the basis  of  such  requests, the Bank shall withdraw
from the Loan Account  and  deposit  into  the NMB Special Account
such amounts as shall  be  required  to  replenish the NMB Special
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out
of the NMB  Special  Account  for  eligible expenditures. All such
deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from the Loan Account
under the  eligible  Category,  and  in  the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by NMB on behalf of the Borrower out of
the NMB  Special  Account  for  which  NMB  requests replenishment
pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, NMB shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the NMB Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by NMB on behalf of  the
               Borrower  directly   from   the   Loan  Account  in
               accordance with the provisions  of Article V of the
               General Conditions  and  paragraph  (a)  of Section
Page  14
               2.02 of the Loan Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible  Category,  less  the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General
               Conditions with respect  to  the  Project, shall be
               equal to an amount  equivalent  to twice the amount
               of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the  Loan Account of the re-
maining unwithdrawn amount of  the  Loan allocated to the eligible
Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by
notice to NMB. Such further  withdrawals  shall be made only after
and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the NMB Special Account as of
the date of such notice  will  be  utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of  the  NMB  Special  Account  (i)  was  made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to  paragraph  4  of  this Schedule, NMB shall,
promptly upon notice from the  Bank,  deposit into the NMB Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No  further deposit by the Bank into
the NMB Special Account  shall  be  made  until  NMB has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined  at any time that  any
amount outstanding in the NMB Special Account will not be required
to cover further  payments  for  eligible expenditures, NMB shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  refund  to  the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
