Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2925 UNI
             (Infrastructure Development Fund Project)
                              between
                    FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated August 4, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2925 UNI
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 4,  1989, between FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF
NIGERIA (the Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower  having  satisfied  itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  Part A of  the  Project  will  be  carried  out with the
assistance of the Borrower  by  the  following merchant banks (the
PMBs), namely:  (i)  Continental  Merchant  Bank (Nigeria) Limited
(Continental), (ii) ICON Limited  (Merchant Bankers) (ICON), (iii)
International Merchant  Bank  (Nigeria)  Limited  (IMB),  (iv) NAL
Merchant Bank Limited  (NAL),  (v)  Nigeria  Merchant Bank Limited
(NMB) and, (vi)  such  other  merchant  banks  as the Borrower may
authorize to participate in  the  Project  on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank;
Page  2
     (C)  as part of the  Borrower's assistance, the Borrower will
make available to each merchant  bank participating in the Project
a portion of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (1) in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this  Agreement, the Project Agreements of
even date herewith between the Bank  and  each of the PMBs and the
State Agreements between the Bank,  Benue, Gongola, Ondo and other
Eligible States of Nigeria;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan  and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set  forth  in  Schedule  4  to  this Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Whenever  used  in  this  Agreement, unless the
context otherwise  requires,  the  several  terms  defined  in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Sub-loans" means loans made  or  proposed to be made by
the PMBs to Eligible States out of the proceeds of the Loan relent
to the PMBs  by  the  Borrower  for  Urban  Projects, and the term
"free-limit Sub-loan" has the  meaning  assigned  to it by Section
1.01 of the Project Agreements;
     (b)  "PMBs" means the merchant banks referred to in Recital B
of this Agreement;
     (c)  "Project Agreements"  means  the  agreements between the
Bank and the PMBs as the  same  may  be amended from time to time,
and such term includes  all  schedules and agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreements;
     (d)  "State  Agreements"  means  the  agreements  between the
Bank, Benue, Gongola, Ondo and other Eligible States of Nigeria as
the same may be amended from  time to time, and such term includes
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the State Agreements;
     (e)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means  the agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and the PMBs pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as  the  same may be amended from time
to time, and such term  includes all schedules supplemental to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
     (f)  "Eligible States" means the States of Nigeria to which a
PMB proposes to make or has made Sub-loans on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank including  Benue, Gongola and Ondo States
of Nigeria;
     (g)  "Urban Project"  means  a  specific urban infrastructure
development  project  to  be  carried  out  by  an  Eligible State
utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
     (h)  "Charter"  means   the   Memorandum   and   Articles  of
Association of a PMB;
     (i)  "Central Bank" means the  Central Bank of Nigeria estab-
lished  and  operating  under  the  Central  Bank  of  Nigeria Act
(Cap. 30) of  the  Laws  of  the  Federal  Republic of Nigeria and
Lagos, 1958;
     (j)  "Special Accounts"  means  the  accounts  referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
Page  3
     (k)  "Statement   of   Policy"    means    a   statement   of
objectivessatisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower as approved by
the Board of Directors of  each  PMB  for  the carrying out of the
Project;
     (l)  "Annual  Project  Performance  Audit"  means  the  audit
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
     (m)  "Control  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 4.03 of this Agreement; and
     (n)  "Project" means with respect  to:  (i)  a PMB, Part A of
the Project as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii)
the Borrower, Part B of the Project.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the Loan
Agreement, an amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to sixty-
nine million five hundred thousand dollars ($69,500,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for:  (i)  amounts paid (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be paid)  by  the PMBs under Part A of the
Project on account of  withdrawals  made  by Eligible States under
Sub-loans to  meet  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  and services
required for the  Urban  Projects  in  respect  of which the with-
drawals from the Loan Account  are  requested; and (ii) for expen-
ditures made (or, if  the  Bank  shall  so  agree,  to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Part B of the Project and  to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars  special  accounts  to be used by the
Borrower and the PMBs on  terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. The Special Accounts to be used for Part A and Part B of the
Project,  respectively,  shall   be   opened   and  maintained  in
commercial or merchant  banks  satisfactory  to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out  of,  the  Special  Accounts shall be made:
(i) in the case of the Special  Accounts  to be used for Part A of
the Project in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the
Project Agreements; and (ii) in the case of the Special Account to
be  used  for  Part  B  of  the  Project  in  accordance  with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994  or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
Page  4
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed;
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank; and
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3  to  this  Agreement,  as  such  Schedule 3 shall be
amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required to:
     (a)  conform in relevant part  substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to Sub-loans, and
     (b)  take  into   account   any   cancellation   pursuant  to
Article VI of the  General  Conditions  and any repayments made by
the Borrower under Section  2.08  of this Agreement; provided that
any  such  amendments  to   the  amortization  schedule  permitted
hereunder shall not authorize  repayments  of the principal amount
of the Loan beyond  the  latest  repayment  date set forth in such
Schedule 3.  Such  amendments  of  said  Schedule  3 shall include
amendments to the table of premiums on prepayments, if necessary.
     Section  2.08.  Unless  the   Bank  and  the  Borrower  shall
otherwise agree:
     (a)  If a PMB  shall  repay  any  amount  to  the Borrower on
account of (i) a Sub-loan or any part thereof repaid to the PMB in
advance of maturity or (ii)  a  Sub-loan or any part thereof sold,
transferred, assigned or otherwise  disposed  of  for value by the
PMB, the Borrower shall promptly  notify  the Bank and shall repay
to the Bank on the  next following interest payment date, together
with the premiums specified in Schedule  3 to this Agreement or in
any amendment thereof under  Section  2.07  (a) of this Agreement,
the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of such Sub-
loan or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the Bank.
     (b)  Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied by
the Bank to the  maturity  or  maturities  of  the Loan in amounts
corresponding  to  the  outstanding  amounts  of  the  maturity or
maturities of the Sub-loan so repaid or disposed of.
     (c)  Paragraph (b) of Section  3.04 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment  made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.
  Section 2.09. (a) The  PMBs  are  with  respect to Part A of the
Project designated  as  representatives  of  the  Borrower for the
purposes of taking any  action  required  or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing,  the
Borrower hereby entrusts the  PMBs  with  responsibility for:  (i)
the preparation of  withdrawal  applications  relating to Category
(1) in Schedule 1 to this  Agreement and for the collection of the
documents and  other  evidence  to  be  furnished  to  the Bank in
support of such applications; and  (ii) the opening of the Special
Accounts to be used by  the  PMBs  for  purposes  of Part A of the
Project. Withdrawal  applications  relating  to  said Category (1)
shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as to apply for
Page  5
withdrawal  of  aggregate  amounts   of  not  less  than  $750,000
equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project;
                    Use of Proceeds of the Loan
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part B of the Project
through the Borrower's Ministry  of  Works and Housing (FMWH) with
due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appropriate
administrative  and  financial  practices.    The  Borrower  shall
provide or cause to  be  provided,  promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and  other  resources  required  for the said
Part of the Project.
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
other obligations under  the  Loan  Agreement,  the Borrower shall
within the limits of  its  powers  cause the PMBs, Benue, Gongola,
Ondo and other Eligible States of Nigeria to perform in accordance
with  the  provisions  of   the   Project  Agreements,  the  State
Agreements,  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  and  the Sub-loans
Agreements, all  the  obligations  of  the  PMBs  and the Eligible
States therein set forth,  shall  take  or  cause  to be taken all
action, necessary  or  appropriate  to  enable  the  PMBs  and the
Eligible States to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken  any  action  which  would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
     (c)  The  Borrower  shall  make  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan
allocated  to  Category  (1)  in  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement
available to  the  PMBs  under  subsidiary  loan  agreements to be
entered into  between  the  Borrower  and  the  PMBs  on terms and
conditions which shall have been  approved by the Bank, including:
(i) payment by each PMB  of  annual  interest at the variable rate
provided for in Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement; (ii) repayment
by each PMB  of principal  in  not more than 20 years (including a
maximum of 5 years of  grace);  (iii)  payment by each PMB, at the
rate specified in Section 2.04  of this Agreement, of a commitment
charge on the principal amount  of  the  proceeds of the Loan made
available to it and  not  withdrawn  from  time  to time; and (iv)
terms and conditions requiring  the  Eligible States to assume any
foreign exchange risks on Sub-loans.
     (d)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan and, except as the  Bank  shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements or any provision thereof.
     (e)  The Borrower shall on  terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Borrower and the  Bank  make proceeds of the Loan allocated
to Category (3)  in  Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement available to
such States of  Nigeria  as  shall  carry out urban infrastructure
investment studies included in Part B.4 of the Project.
     Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (i) through FMWH carry  out
annually  a  project   performance   audit   (the  Annual  Project
Performance Audit) satisfactory  to  the  Bank;  and (ii) no later
than six months after the end  of  each fiscal year furnish to the
Bank a report  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  on  the Annual Project
Performance Audit.
     Section 3.03.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the  goods  and  consultants' services required for
Part B of the Project and  to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Page  6
     Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part
A of the  Project  shall  be  carried  out  by each eligible State
pursuant to the  appropriate  provisions  of  the respective State
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause to be
maintained separate records and  accounts  adequate to reflect  in
accordance  with  sound   accounting   practices  the  operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Part B of the Project  of
the  departments  or  agencies  of  the  Borrower  responsible for
carrying out the said Part of the Project or any portion thereof.
     Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               Section 4.01 of this Agreement, including those for
               the Special Accounts, for  each fiscal year audited
               in  accordance   with   sound  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available but in any
               case not later  than  six  months  after the end of
               each fiscal year a certified  copy of the report of
               such audit by said  auditors,  of such scope and in
               such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning the accounts  and  the  audit thereof as
               the  Bank  shall  from   time  to  time  reasonably
               request.
     (b)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were  made  under  Categories (2) and (3) in
Schedule 1  to  this  Agreement  on  the  basis  of  statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with Section 4.01  of  this  Agreement, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank  has
               received the audit report  for  the fiscal  year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (a)
               of this Section and  that  the  report of each such
               audit contains a separate  opinion by said auditors
               as  to  whether   the   statements  of  expenditure
               submitted during  such  fiscal  year, together with
               the procedures  and  internal  controls involved in
               their preparation, can  be  relied  upon to support
               the related withdrawals.
     Section 4.03. Without any limitation or restriction of any of
its obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the
Page  7
Central Bank: (i)  to  establish  and  maintain  an account satis-
factory to the Bank  (the  Control  Account) showing the status of
Sub-loans made under the  Project including details of withdrawals
and disbursements made under  Category  (1)  in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; (ii) to  review  annually  the financial performance of
the PMBs under the  Project  and  the  overall financial status of
Sub-loans;  and  (iii)  to  prepare  and  furnish  to  the Federal
Ministry of Finance, FMWH and  the  Bank  no later than six months
after the end of  each  fiscal  year  a report satisfactory to the
Bank on the Control Account.
     Section 4.04. The Borrower  shall  cause  the Central Bank to
discuss with  the  Bank  by  May  1988,  and  annually thereafter:
(i)  the  financial  performance   of  the  PMBs  with  particular
reference to their capital  adequacy and their liquidity position;
and  (ii)  where  necessary,  measures  to  improve  the financial
performance  of  the  PMBs;   provided   that  such  measures  are
consistent with the overall  credit and monetary policy objectives
of the Central Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Any PMB shall have failed to perform any of its obliga
tions under a Project Agreement;
     (b)  Any of the Eligible States  shall have failed to perform
any of its obligations under a State Agreement;
     (c)  as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that any PMB or any Eligible
State will be  able  to  perform  its  obligations under a Project
Agreement or a State Agreement; and
     (d)  a Charter  or  a  Statement  of  Policy  shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or  waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition
of a PMB or the ability of a PMB to participate effectively in the
carrying out of the Project.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (a)  and  (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement  shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after  notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the event specified in paragraph  (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  Subsidiary Loan Agreements have  been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and at least two PMBs; and
     (b)  an agreement for a Sub-loan  has been executed on behalf
of at least one PMB and at least one of the Eligible States.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
Page  8
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that Project  Agreements  have  been  duly authorized or
ratified by at least two PMBs and are legally binding on such PMBs
in accordance with their terms;
     (b)  that the State Agreements  have  been duly authorized or
ratified by at least two  of  the  Eligible States and are legally
binding on the said States in accordance with their terms;
     (c)  that  Subsidiary   Loan   Agreements   have   been  duly
authorized or ratified by the  Borrower  and at least two PMBs and
are legally binding on  the  Borrower  and such PMBs in accordance
with their terms; and
     (d)  that the  agreement  for  the  Sub-loan  referred  to in
Section 6.01 (b) above has been duly authorized or ratified by the
PMB and the Eligible  State  concerned  and  is legally binding on
such PMB and such Eligible State in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
 For the Borrower:
          The Permanent Secretary
          Federal Ministry of Finance
          P.M.B. 1519
          Federal Secretariat, Ikoyi
          Lagos, Nigeria
          Cable address:                   Telex:
                PERMFIN                        21248
                Lagos
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
                  Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                   Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF the  parties  hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  9
                        FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                        By /s/ Hamzat Ahmadu
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                        Amount of the
                       Loan Allocated               % of
                        (Expressed in           Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1)  Goods, works and
     services financed
     under Sub-loans:
     (a)  Benue State       10,400,000         100% of foreign
                                               expenditures and
     (b)  Gongola State     11,500,000         75% of local
                                               expenditures
     (c)  Ondo State        10,400,000
     (d)  Other Eligible
          States:
          (i)  Free-limit   10,000,000
               Sub-loans
         (ii)  Other        12,300,000
               Sub-loans
(2)  Staff training,         1,000,000         100%
     studies, audits
     andtechnical
     assistance
     under Part B (1)
     and B (2) of
     the Project
(3)  (a)  Staff training     4,100,000         100%
          and studies
          under Part B(3)
          through B(5) of
          the Project
     (b)  Vehicles and         200,000         100% of foreign
          equipment under                      expenditures and
Page  10
          Part B.3 (a)                         75% of local
          of the Project                       expenditures
(4)  Unallocated:
     (a)  Benue State        1,500,000
     (b)  Gongola State      1,800,000
     (c)  Ondo State         1,900,000
     (a)  Others1            4,400,000
          (including
          Eligible
          States other
          than Benue,
          Gongola and
          Ondo States)
          TOTAL
                            69,500,000
                            ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
     (a)  in respect of a Sub-loan unless: (i) a Project Agreement
has been executed by  the  PMB  concerned  and an opinion has been
furnished to the Bank stating  that the Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by such  PMB and is legally binding on
the PMB in  accordance  with  its  terms;  (ii)  a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been executed on behalf  of the Borrower and the PMB
concerned and an opinion  has  been  furnished to the Bank stating
that the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and  such  PMB  and is legally binding on
the Borrower and  the  PMB  in  accordance  with  its terms; (iii)
except as the Bank may otherwise agree, a State Agreement has been
executed by the Eligible State to which the Sub-loan has been made
and an opinion has  been  furnished  to  the Bank stating that the
State Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified by such
Eligible State and is  legally  binding  on  the Eligible State in
accordance with its terms; and (iv)  the Sub-loan has been made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in  Schedule  1 to the Project Agreements and
approved by the Bank; and
     (b)  in respect of expenditures under Category (1) above  for
works to be carried  out  by  an  Eligible  State by force account
(other than expenditures for  materials and equipment required for
such works if procured  in  accordance with the procurement proce-
dures set forth  or  referred  to  in  Schedule  2  to the Project
Agreements).
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The  objectives  of  the  Project  are:  (i)  to  establish a
Page  11
mechanism for financing urban infrastructure development; and (ii)
to assist States of Nigeria to improve their financial management,
resource mobilization and urban infrastructure investment planning
and programming capabilities.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     The making of Sub-loans  by  PMBs  to Benue, Gongola and Ondo
and other  Eligible  States  of  Nigeria  to  improve  their urban
infrastructure, financial management and resource mobilization.
Part B:
1.   Strengthening the capabilities  of  PMBs  to select, appraise
and supervise Urban Projects including training of staff of PMBs.
2.   Project performance audits by FMWH and a review, in the light
of project experience, of  the  selection and appraisal guidelines
for Part A of the Project.
3.   (a)  Strengthening the capability  of  FMWH  as well as State
project  staff  to  monitor   and  evaluate  urban  infrastructure
development projects including training of FMWH and State  project
Staff and  provision  of  vehicles  and  equipment  for  FMWH   to
facilitate project implementation.
     (b)  The  carrying  out  of  sector  and  project preparation
studies for urban infrastructure development projects.
4.   A program of  assistance  to  such  States  of Nigeria as the
Borrower shall  require:  (i)  to  carry  out urban infrastructure
investment studies; and (ii) to prepare Urban Projects.
5.   A study to restructure the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
     beginning September 15, 1993
     through September 15, 2007                2,315,000
On March 15, 2008                              2,365,000
