Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2925 UNI
             (Infrastructure Development Fund Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                      BENUE STATE OF NIGERIA
                       Dated August 4, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2925 UNI
                       BENUE STATE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August  4,  1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank) and BENUE STATE OF
NIGERIA (Benue State).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between Federal Republic of  Nigeria  (the Borrower) and the Bank,
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies  equivalent  to  sixty-nine million fivehundred
thousand dollars ($69,500,000),  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in the  Loan  Agreement,  but  only  on condition that Benue
State agrees to undertake such  obligations toward the Bank as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)by the Loan  Agreement,  the  Borrower  has agreed to make
available to merchant  banks  participating  in the Project (PMBs)
for relending to Benue State  an  amount equivalent to ten million
four hundred thousand dollars  ($10,400,000)  or such other amount
as shall be allocated to  Category  (1)  (a)  in Schedule 1 to the
Loan Agreement for the financing  of  Urban Projects to be carried
Page  2
out by Benue State; and
     WHEREAS Benue State,  in  consideration  of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement  with  the Borrower and Project Agree-
ments with PMBs, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth
in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01. Whenever  used  in  this  Agreement, unless the
context otherwise  requires,  the  several  terms  defined  in the
Loan Agreement, the  Preamble  to  this  Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so  defined)  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) Benue State  declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out any Urban Project to
be financed from a Sub-loan  made  to  Benue State under Part A of
the Project with due  diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utilities practices. Benue  State  shall  provide,  or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources  required  for  the  purpose  and  shall also duly
perform all its obligations  under  any Sub-loan Agreement entered
into between Benue State and any  of  the PMBs. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Benue State shall not take or concur in any
action  which  would  have  the  effect  of  amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving any such  Sub-loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
     (b)Without any limitation or restriction  on any of its other
obligations under this Agreement, Benue State shall contribute not
less than 15% (or such  other  percentage as the Bank, Benue State
and the PMB concerned shall  agree)  of the funds required to meet
the total costs of any  Urban  Project  to be carried out by Benue
State.
     Section 2.02. (a) Benue  State  shall,  at the request of the
Borrower or the Bank,  exchange  views  with  the Borrower and the
Bank with  regard  to  the  progress  of  any  Urban Project being
carried out by  Benue  State,  the  performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and  under  any Sub-loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  Benue State shall promptly  inform  the Borrower and the
Bank of any condition  which  interferes or threatens to interfere
with the progress of any such Urban Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the   Loan,  or  the performance by Benue State of
its  obligations  under  this  Agreement  and  under  any Sub-loan
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. Benue State shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition) in respect  of  this Agreement and any Urban
Project carried out in pursuance thereof.
                            ARTICLE III
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
Page  3
     Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 3.O2. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of Benue State thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall  terminate  in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly notify Benue State thereof.
     Section 3.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE IV
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 4.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For Benue State:
          The Permanent Secretary
          Ministry of Finance and
            Economic Planning
          P.M.B. 2055
          Makurdi, Nigeria
          Cable address:
             SECFIN
             Makurdi
     Section 4.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Benue  State,  may  be taken or executed by
the Commissioner for Finance  and  Economic Planning or such other
person or persons as Benue  State  shall designate in writing, and
Benue State shall furnish to  the  Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the  authenticated  specimen  signature of each such
person.
     Section 4.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
Page  4
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                   BENUE STATE OF NIGERIA
                   By /s/ Hamzat Ahmadu
                                         Authorized Representative
