Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
Dated March 1, 1993
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 1, 1993, between the REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA (the Recipient) 
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECON-STRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as 
Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement, dated July 30, 1990, between Japan 
and the Bank and International Development Association (the Association), Japan has 
requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, 
to administer grant funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain 
programs and projects supported by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be, 
in accordance with the provisions of such letter agreement; and
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of 
said grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical 
assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the 
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
Page  2
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (18) 
and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Sec-tion 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Sec-tion 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development acting as Administrator of the 
Grant pursuant to the letter agreement between Japan and the Bank 
and the Association referred to in Recital (A) of this Agreement, 
except that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting 
in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Grant;
(v)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on 
its books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the 
Grant is credited;
(vi)
the term "Project", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Technical Assistance de-scribed in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in yen; 
provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the 
Grant have been paid or are payable in another cur-rency, the 
Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase such 
currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the terms "yen" and 
"¥" mean the currency of Japan.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an 
amount of thirty-eight million six hundred thousand yen (¥38,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may 
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator, 
for expendi-tures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of carrying out the Project and to be financed out of 
the Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the Grant 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resour-ces and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments 
or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other informa-tion concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Admin-istrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Page  4
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties hereto.
Section 4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Minister of Industry of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Industry
8 Slavianska Str.
1046 Sofia
Republic of Bulgaria
Telex:
23490
For the Administrator:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
By /s/ R. Bikov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
Page  5
By /s/ M. Wiehen
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the Grant to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
 (Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Yen Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants'
   19,300,000 100%
services under
Part A of the
Technical
Assistance
(2)
Consultants'
   19,300,000 100%
services under
Part B of the
Technical 
Assistance
TOTAL
   38,600,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expendi-tures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Technical Assistance
Part A:
Restructuring
Studies and support for the setting of the policy, database and institutional 
framework for the restructurings of a number of enterprises, or any other critical 
area that might be identified during the preparation or implementa-tion of the 
enterprise restruc-turing program.
Part B:
Privatization
Studies and support for the formulation, implementation and monitoring of the 
privatization program of small, medium and large enterprises or any other critical 
area that might be identified during the preparation or implementation of the 
privatization program.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Project Agencies Responsible for Execution
of the Technical Assistance
Part A:
Ministry of Industry
Part B:
Privatization Agency and Ministry of Industry
SCHEDULE 3
Consultants' Services
Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Technical Assistance, the 
Page  6
Recipient shall employ consultants whose qualifica-tions, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Administrator. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-tory to the 
Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981.
