                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                            Report No: 29990

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                    (SCL-41300 PPFB-P2910)

                                              ON A

                                             LOAN


                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 51 MILLION

                                            TO THE


                                      REPUBLIC OF PERU

                                             FOR A


   SIERRA NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT & POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT




                                         October 15, 2004




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective September 2004)

                              Currency Unit = Soles
                                     S/ 1.00 = US$ .30
                                   US$ 1.00 = S/ 3.382



                                    FISCAL YEAR

                               January 1   December 31




                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
ESSD           Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
FAO/CP         Food and Agricultural Organization/Cooperative Program.
FONCODES       National Fund for Development Compensation (Fondo Nacional de
               Compensación de Desarrollo)
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IEPS           Initial Executive Project Summary
JBIC           Japanese Bank for International Cooperation
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
PRONAMACHCS    National Program for the Management of Watershed Basins and Soil
               Conservation (Programa Nacional de Manejo de Cuencas Hidrográficas y
               Conservación de Suelos)




                            Vice President:     David de Ferranti
                          Country Director      Marcelo Giugale
                           Sector Manager       Mark Cackler
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Andrea Silverman

                                             PERU
            Sierra Natural Resources Management & Poverty Alleviation Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's Implementation Completion Report                  29
MAP: PERU - Participating Departments

Project ID: P042442                                                  Project Name: Sierra Natural Resources Management &
                                                                     Rural Poverty Project
Team Leader: Andrea L. J. Silverman                                  TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 15, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Sierra Natural Resources Management & Rural              L/C/TF Number: SCL-41300; PPFB-P2910
                            Poverty Project
   Country/Department: PERU                                                               Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Irrigation and drainage (42%); Crops (29%); Forestry (14%);
                            Central government administration (9%); Other social services (6%)
                  Theme: Land management (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Other
                            rural development (S); Participation and civic engagement (S);
                            Indigenous peoples (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/11/1995                                     Effective: 06/06/1997                05/05/1997
     Appraisal: 11/01/1996                                         MTR: 11/06/1999                  01/15/2001
      Approval: 01/16/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 03/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF PERU/PRONAMACHCS (Programa Nacional de Manejo de
                                           Cuencas Hidrograficas y Conservacion de Suelos)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Gobind Nankani
Country Director:               Marcelo Giugale                                Paul Isenman
Sector Manager:                 Mark E. Cackler                                Jonathan Parker
Team Leader at ICR:             Andrea Silverman                               Pierre Werbrouck
ICR Primary Author:             Andrea Silverman


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The overall objective of the project was to reduce poverty in the Peruvian sierra, the area of Peru with
the highest rates of poverty and extreme poverty. The project was to achieve poverty reduction in that
region by achieving the following, specific objectives: (a) improving sustainable management of natural
resources through soil conservation measures and reforestation in micro-catchment areas; (b) increasing
rural production and productivity through the introduction of irrigation and improved agricultural practices;
and (c) strengthening rural organizations so that they can become autonomous and sustainable entities.

The focus on poverty in the Andean sierra was and continues to be highly relevant to Peru, and was
consistent with the central objective of poverty reduction through investment lending of the 1994 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS). The operation was forseen in that CAS as a follow-up of progress that had
been made in the country's policy framework including passage of a new water law. At the Initial
Executive Project Summary (IEPS) stage the plan articulated in the CAS to have an integrated water
and land conservation project covering both Andean and coastal areas was revised. This operation was
designed to focus exclusively on the Andean region and a separate operation was prepared to address
the irrigated areas of the Peruvian coast. This was a good decision, allowing the project to focus its
effort, and to effectively support and strengthen the existing National Program for the Management of
Watershed Basins and Soil Conservation (PRONAMACHCS), providing important support to economic
development in the sierra region.

The first two specific project objectives were realistic given the institutional framework and objectives of
government, and the positive track record of the implementing agency, PRONAMACHCS, whose
precursor institution was established in the early 1980's.    The project was to focus on productivity and
natural resource management issues, and this combination was directly relevant to the problems of the
Andean sierra.

The third project objective, strengthening rural organizations to become autonomous and sustainable
entities was not clearly articulated during project preparation even though the strengthening of
community and micro-catchment organizations is indeed important to achieving an impact on natural
resource management that goes beyond the practices of individual farmers. Preparation documents
referred to local organizations, but did not clearly define what these organizations were or the level at
which they operated. They did indicate that it was expected that pre-existing farmers' groups would be
involved in project implementation, and that these entities would have their capacity strengthened. In
the Minutes of Negotiations, however, at the government's request there was a re-definition of the
elegible rural organizations to include ad hoc associations of producers organized for the purpose of
participating in the project. This modification allowed implementation of the rural investment component
to proceed rapidly using groups established by PRONAMACHCS field staff. The implementation of
investments via these ad hoc groups became the rule in the project rather than the exception forseen in
the minutes. In the first four years of the project there were few efforts to go beyond these groups and to
strengthen existing rural organizations and involve them via a process of participatory planning to
address broader issues of natural resource management at the community and watershed levels, as had
been forseen in the SAR. The problem of PRONAMACHCS's lack of experience and capacity in this
area was noted in Bank team reports during preparation and the IEPS review meeting minutes of July
1995, but was not highlighted in the definition of project risks of the SAR. During the mid-term review
(MTR) in early 2001, the lack of achievement of this objective was noted, and many project activities
following the MTR focused on getting the participatory planning aspects of the project on-track, with
partial success.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Project objectives were not revised.




                                                     - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:

The project was designed to be implemented in four components: (i) participative identification and
formulation of rural investments in micro-catchments; (ii) demand-driven productive rural investments in
the Sierra on a grant basis matched by community labor; (iii) strengthening of rural community
institutions; and (iv) logistical support and training to the implementing agency (PRONAMACHCS). The
amounts spent on these components at project closing is compared below with appraisal estimates.

Table 1.- Amounts spent on these components at project closing
Component                      Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest       Actual/Appraisal       Rating
                                      US$              Estimate US$               %
Participatory Identification        466,000                890,000              191%                S
and Formulation of Rural
Investments
Rural Investments                  77,400,000            85,140,000             110%                S

Institutional Strengthening         3,600,000            5,090,000              141%                S
of Community
Organizations
Project Operation,                 11,700,000            6,820,000              58%                 S
Management, Monitoring
and Evaluation
Total Project Costs                93,166,000            97,050,000             104%                S

Participatory Identification and Formulation of Rural Investments (US$466,000). The purpose of
this project component was to provide two key inputs to improved natural resource management: (i)
expert studies of the natural resource management characteristics and issues of the micro-catchments
selected to participate in the project; and (ii) support for participatory diagnosis, planning and monitoring
activities by communities within each micro-catchment to develop capacity for natural resource
management and to effectively plan for investments. This component was designed based on best
practice experiences and was key to the objective of improving natural resource management at the
micro-catchment level. Project design did not take into account, however, the lack of relevant capacity
and organizational incentives within PRONAMACHCS, and it was only until after the mid-term review did
efforts start to develop the methodology, to train PRONAMACHCS staff, and to give priority to
participatory planning. This meant that the generation of micro-catchment management committees was
substantially delayed, and the investments at the farm level made in the first four years of the project did
not have the benefit of an overall diagnosis and vision of micro-catchment priorities. An important
design mistake was thus made in not identifying and addressing key constraining factors, including: (i)
lack of awareness, interest and willingness by PRONAMACHCS technical staff to carry out the
participatory planning process; and (ii) organizational incentives to move rapidly with programmed works
and not to delay them with time-consuming involvement of a broader group of stakeholders in
micro-catchment planning.

Rural Investments (US$77.4 million). This component financed the investment in soil conservation,
small-scale irrigation, reforestation and agroforestry, improved production technology, community seed
storage warehouses, and studies needed for discrete investments. Resources provided by the project
were matched by labor contributions provided by participating farmers, reaching a value of US$27.9
million, or 33% of the total of US$85.14 million. This component was well designed and appropriate to
the conditions in the sierra. Very clear guidelines and eligibility criteria were put in place from the
beginning of the project based on a financial analysis of the expected benefits of particular investments.
The use of these guidelines and criteria, and the requirement that farmers contribute all of the labor in



                                                      - 3 -

the investments resulted in grants being efficiently used, with farmers involved at each step of the way.
In addition, the high quality and commitment of most PRONAMACHCS field staff, who were experienced
and capable technicians, contributed to the success. The design of this component built successfully
from previous work by PRONAMACHCS as well as best practice principles for soil conservation and
poverty reduction.

Institutional Strengthening of Community Organizations (US$3.6 million). This component was
designed to: (i) provide training for community groups in a range of areas, including the participatory
planning and management of the revolving account being established in each community, and (ii)
finance entrepreneurial initiatives by women's groups. The training portion of this component was well
conceived and well designed, and was key to the success of the project in bringing about sustainable
change in farming practices of the Andean farmers. The financing of entrepreneurial initiatives by
women's groups, however, was not successful and no new initiatives were financed following a negative
assessment of the program completed during the MTR. The failure of the women's entrepreneurial
initiatives program was a problem of component design, with one of the main weaknesses being that it
required PRONAMACHCS staff to undertake a new, very difficult activity without having developed and
tested an effective strategy and related staff capacity and internal procedures.

Project Operation, Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$11.7 million). This component
provided inputs needed to improve PRONAMACHCS's management, technical and logistical capacity to
manage the project. This component did well in financing, for example, mobility for extension staff to
reach distant farmer groups, development of information systems to allow PRONAMACHCS to better
manage decentralized activities, and study tours and technical assistance that gave PRONAMACHCS
staff opportunities to learn from and apply experiences from other countries.            Substantial technical
assistance was provided to conduct project evaluations and to develop evaluation capacity in
PRONAMACHCS's central office. In spite of these efforts this capacity was not developed, perhaps due
to inadequate attention and priority given to it by senior management. In addition two important areas
discussed above, participatory planning and women's entrepreneurial initiatives, did not receive support
from this component when it was much needed during the first four years of project implementation.

3.4 Revised Components:

There were no substantive revisions to the project components. There were four amendments to the
loan agreement between 1998 and 2003, and these related to changes in the amount in the Special
Account and in disbursement percentages for certain categories, and the re-allocation of funds among
categories.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The ICR rates quality at entry as satisfactory. The project was fully consistent with the CAS and with
government objectives. The interventions did not trigger any of the safeguards. The selection of project
sites was well done, using poverty criteria to identify areas and this led to the project's reaching very poor
and indigenous groups in logistically challenging conditions.         The project design was appropriate and
effective in improving the natural resource conservation practices and incomes of poor farmers. The
activities that were financed by the project had been developed during the prior 15 years by
PRONAMACHCS and its precursor institutions. Thus, the project financed the implementation of a well
tested technical package by an already experienced and capable implementing agency. Project design
also benefitted by an in-depth social assessment led by the Bank's social scientist. Some specific
features of project design which contributed to effective implementation included: (i) the structure of
elegibility criteria, including limits on the size project contributions established by kind of work, by family
and by communities, which helped ensure that funds were efficiently targetted; and (ii) requirements for
beneficiary contribution of all unskilled labor, but provision of other inputs (e.g. improved seeds, fertilizer
and tools) as grants; this approach contributed to effective demand identification and prioritization of
works while providing a resource transfer which encouraged and allowed poor farmers to participate fully
in the project.



                                                       - 4 -

Where quality at entry suffered was in the assumptions made that the innovative elements to be
introduced by the project could be done smoothly and quickly. The main elements which were not
effectively planned for at entry were: (i) the development of a community and micro-catchment wide
approach to natural resource management and establishment of a management committee to bring
about collaboration and coordination among stakeholders; and (ii) strategies to increase the participation
of women in natural resource management efforts, which were to include actions to increase participation
in PRONAMACHCS's project activities and finance for entrepreneurial activities of women's groups. In
addition, project design indicated that there would be community procurement of key inputs and tools but
it was decided during project preparation to require this small scale procurement of goods to follow
standard procurement procedures, which meant that PRONAMACHCS extension agents and
administrative personnel handled procurement on the behalf of communities. This design flaw was
shown to be significant as throughout implementation there were problems with the quality of inputs
procured, and criticism by farmers regarding poor management of the contracting process, lack of
transparency, and inadequate opportunities for their participation in the procurement.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project has satisfactorily achieved two of its three objectives, to increase rural production and
productivity and improve sustainable management of natural resources in the poor areas of the Peruvian
sierra. A post project investment comparative study of areas participating and not participating in the
project calculated the economic rate of return (ERR) of the project as 12.3%, based on project
investments of $91.96 million (the rural investment and project management components combined).
This ERR is just above the 12% estimated in the SAR. Benefits have and will continue to accrue to the
participating farmers who include over 31,000 farm families in 1,184 communities with 415,000 has of
land in 198 micro-catchments in 9 departments of the Peruvian sierra (Amazonas, Ancash, Apurimac,
Ayacucho, Cusco, Cajamarca, Huancavelica, Huanuco, and Junin). These farmers participated actively
in conservation, forestry and works committees, completing soil conservation works, small scale
irrigation, reforestation and other activities. As part of the increased production due to the project,
farmers gained in terms of income and saw a dramatic decrease in the need to purchase agricultural
products for on-farm consumption, including wheat, forage, firewood and wood for construction (see
Annex 3). At the same time, the demand for on-farm labor increased by 11% due to new production
practices, equivalent to a decrease in rural unemployment by 7,660 persons. The project made
significantly less progress in achieving its third objective, strengthening rural organizations, for reasons
discussed above in section 3.1, but did provide for the strengthening of capacity of individual farmers
through an extensive training program and the participative process for making farm-level investments.
Thus, overall the project can be considered satisfactory.

The project would have been considered highly satisfactory if: (i) problems of project implementation had
been better addressed, which would have led to an even higher ERR on the project investement; and (ii)
the management of natural resources at the community and micro-catchment level had also been
achieved as projected, and inter-organizational management committees had been created and made
sustainable. In the case of the management committees, it should be noted that progress was made in
the last two years of the project, as the methodology for bringing about natural resource managment
improvements was developed and tested, and efforts were initiated in 9 micro-catchments and 3
watersheds.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Participatory Identification and Formulation of Rural Investments. (US$890,000) The activities and
objectives of this component were satisfactorily achieved during the project, but with some substantial
delay which limited their effectiveness. The studies of 127 micro-catchments were completed on time
and were available as input for project interventions.          However, the planning process used by



                                                    - 5 -

PRONAMACHCS to plan conservation measures did not achieve the component outcomes as it did not
initiate a participatory analysis and planning for natural resource management at the community or
micro-catchment levels. Project staff used a simplified planning process, involving only that segment of
the community which participated in the conservation committee. Following the MTR in January 2001, to
remedy this situation PRONAMACHCS began to develop a new approach, termed "P-cubo"
(Planificacion Participativa de PRONAMACHCS). It was ready for field testing and dissemination in late
2002. Before project closing all PRONAMACHCS staff had been trained in the new approach, and
management committees had been initiated in 9 micro-catchments and an additional 3 larger
watersheds. This achievement was much less than the target of 50 micro-catchments, as the effort
started quite late in the project and was limited by the number of trained, experienced professionals who
could lead the process. PRONAMACHCS successfully drew from a range of expertise available in Peru
to develop P-cubo, and drew from the southern Brazil experience as a model for watershed planning. At
the closing of the project there were still two issues pending regarding the micro-catchment and
watershed planning efforts: (i) whether or not these efforts would be effective, as it was still too early to
assess them; and (ii) whether or not PRONAMACHCS would be able to continue to support them by
accessing alternate sources of financing.

Rural Investments (US$85.14 million). Implementation of this component was overall satisfactory. As
noted in Annex 1, the physical targets for soil conservation, small-scale irrigation, reforestation and
agro-forestry, and community seed storage warehouses were substantially exceeded although
expenditures for this component only exceeded project estimates by 10%.                Field reviews, project
mid-term and final evaluations and the post-project economic and financial analysis (see sections 4.3
and 4.4 below) confirm that the investments were appreciated by farmers and that they had a positive
effect on productivity, incomes and increasing own production of food, forage, fuel, and timber. The
investments in this component resulted in the construction of over 26,000 ha of terraces, 18,000 kmof
infiltration canals, 818 km of irrigation canals, 315 water reservoirs, and 100 pressure irrigation systems.
The reforestation program also exceeded its targets, with 1,296 nurseries created, and 42,110 ha of land
under reforestation management. (see Annex 1) While there were a number of factors that impeded
implementation of the investment component (see section 5.3), the positive factors outweighed
difficulties, and the post-project evaluation demonstrated that investments were successful in improving
the livelihoods of the poor. Nevertheless, the project could have been more successful if more of the
implementation difficulties had been addressed. While technical design features of the rural investments
component were satisfactory, a range of improvements could have been made (and still should be made
in PRONAMACHCS's other, ongoing operations) in the implementation mechanisms and institutions (see
sections 5.3 and 7.6).

Institutional Strengthening of Community Organizations (US$5.09 million).               This component was
overall satisfactory. Although some outputs were delayed and/or not fully achieved, the component
made a significant contribution to strengthening farmer capacity.           From 1997 to 2003 the project
conducted 6,719 training programs for farmers, with women's attendance being approximately 25% of
the total participants. This level of training effort was substantially higher than programmed and resulted
in a 41% increase in component expenditures over estimate.              Topics for the training included soil
conservation, irrigation, forestry, crop production, organizational strengthening, and entrepreneurial
development, a list which is much broader than that included in the project description of the SAR. The
expansion of the areas for training was a good step, and provided important input to the success of the
project by developing farmer capacity to undertake improved crop production, soil and water
management, and expansion of agro-forestry and reforestation.            Establishment and strengthening of
micro-catchment committees was delayed and not fully achieved, as the development of a participatory
planning process (under Component 1) was delayed until following the MTR. As mentioned above, only
9 of 50 such committees were developed, although an additional 3 committees were developed and
strengthened at the larger watershed level, an important innovation which expanded upon the original
project design. The women's entrepreneurial initiatives program financed within this component was not
successful. Of the 1,100 target number of initiatives, only 381 (35%) had been financed by the time of
the MTR. The MTR evaluation showed these efforts to have had poor results, and therefore it was
agreed to halt the program, except for limited efforts to provide follow-up support to some of the original




                                                      - 6 -

381 groups.

Project Operation, Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$6.82 million) This component
was overall satisfactory.    The component financed the logistical costs (especially motorcycles and
vehicles) that allowed extension workers to reach rural communities, and provided extensive training to
PRONAMACHCS staff, which strengthened the technical quality of its work. However, with regard to the
management information system and evaluation studies, while these tasks were done, capacity was not
developed within PRONAMACHCS to take advantage of them.               PRONAMACHCS's ability to draw
conclusions about field outcomes from evaluations and the management information system, and
identify and implement needed policy and programmatic changes remained weak.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The economic rate of return for the project, using a conservative set of assumptions, was calculated to
be 12.3% based on a survey of participating and nonparticipating farmers (see Annex 3). Benefits have
and continue to accrue to the group of 31,061 farm families through increased production for
self-consumption and income. If estimated, indirect economic benefits for the 56,641 remaining families
in those communities were taken into account, the economic rate of return would increase to 15%. The
actions and works of the project which most contributed to the increase in economic benefits were, in
order of importance:      (a) soil conservation practices and works, (b) reforestation, (c) small scale
irrigation, and (d) inputs for agriculture production. The inputs provided by the project have had an
apparent impact of increasing demand for chemical inputs, primarily fertilizer, and in the establishment
of pasture crops on newly irrigated areas.

The total cost of the investment considered in the economic-financial project evaluation reached
US$85.4 million, and represents the total value of the funds, materials and labor financed or provided by
the Government of Peru, the beneficiaries, and the World Bank for the rural investment and project
monitoring components. Not included in this analysis was the cost of the demand identification and
community strengthening and training components (US$7.0 million).

4.4 Financial rate of return:

The project created important benefits for the 31,061 families which participated directly in the
conservation committees and program. The net present value of the incremental benefits (using a 12%
discount rate) accrued to each of the three farm models (high, medium and lower altitudes) ranges
between US$1,856 to US$2,682. Approximately 82% of the value is due to increases in productivity and
18% by the avoidance of anticipated losses in productivity due to the works and actions of the project.
The financial benefits of each of the farm models increase each year until year 6, after which the value
of the increase varies between US$322 and US$602, which represents an average annual increase of
approximately 23% (ranging from 17.5% and 27.7%).

   Family farm     Total NPV US$            NPV losses avoided            NPV increases produced
      models                               US$              %                US$               %
High altitude
(above 3,500             2,682             471             17.5             2,211             82.5
meters)
Middle altitude
(betw. 3,500 and         1,856             349             18.8             1,507             81.2
2,300 meters)
Low altitude
(below 2,300             2,637             450             17.0              2187             83.0
meters)




                                                   - 7 -

For the farmers the impact of the project has been the nearly complete achievement of sufficient
production of pasture crops and wood for firewood and construction to meet the families' own demand.
This result will contribute to the environmental and productive sustainability of the changes introduced by
the project, as long as these families do not substantially increase the size of their herds or initiate a
more extensive exploitation of wood from the new forest plantations. The project has generated an
increase of approximately 2.3 million work days in the amount of family labor invested in productive
activities. This incremental demand for labor signifies a decrease in rural unemployment in the order of
7,660 persons.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Institutional development impact was modest. The project objectives included developing institutional
capacity of the government, via PRONAMACHCS, and of local, rural organizations to bring about
sustainable economic development through improved natural resource management. In the case of
PRONAMACHCS, in spite of frequent staff changes and rotations and in spite of delays in developing
the participatory natural resource management methods and approach, by the end of project
PRONAMACHCS had strengthened its capacity to support conservation by farmer groups and to work
with local organizations to develop integrated, regional approaches to natural resource management.
PRONAMACHCS did not, however, develop the capacity, as anticipated in the project design, to bring an
integrated, participatory planning approach to its full portfolio of investment activities. Implementation
demonstrated that work with micro-catchment and watershed committees requires substantial time and
level of staffing, and that PRONAMACHCS was not prepared to conduct such efforts on anything more
than a limited scale.

The project also had the objective of developing institutional capacity of local rural organizations. With
most involved organizations having been created with the sole purpose of participation in project
investments, the institutional development impact is likely to be negligible, as these groups will likely
cease to function after the closing of the project. It is expected, however, that some if not all of the 9
micro-catchment management committees and the 3 watershed committees developed by the project as
part of an intensive, participatory process involving a range of stakeholders, will continue to function and
will over the medium to long term have a positive impact on larger problems of natural resource
management. Their longer-run impact is likely to be both the demonstrative effect they will have as well
as the direct affect they will have in their respective areas.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

There were no major factors beyond the control of government and the implementing agency that had a
significant negative impact on the outcome of the project. External factors related to markets, climatic
issues, nature of farmer communities and culture, and others, had been assessed at the beginning of the
project and taken into account in the project design. It is important to note, however, that World Bank
advocacy for the integration of poverty reduction programs in 2001-2003, within the context of the
Programmatic Social Reform Loans, provided pressure on government to merge PRONAMACHCS with
other programs including FONCODES (the Peruvian social fund). As is noted below in section 5.2, this
threat of merger and the partial steps taken towards it in 2002 and 2003 created problems for project
implementation during those years.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Positively affecting project implementation: during the first four years of the project government fully
supported the project with needed financing, both counterpart and loan funds, thereby allowing the
project to meet physical targets earlier than expected.

Negatively affecting project implementation:           (i) restrictions on government financing of the



                                                      - 8 -

PRONAMACHCS program instituted by the Ministry of Economy and Finance became a negative factor
starting in 2001, as resources available were limited, slowing the pace of implementation especially in
2003, leading to the lack of implementation of a number of promised community and farm level
investments at project completion in March 2004; and (ii) a major re-structuring and re-organization of
poverty reduction programs that was undertaken in 2002 and 2003, during which time plans were
announced and actions were taken to begin to merge PRONAMACHCS with FONCODES; this move
never materialized but the announcements of its timetable and partial implementation of the transfer had
a negative impact on implementation by creating uncertainty, destabilizing staffing patterns and further
reducing operational resources available to PRONAMACHCS.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Positively affecting project implementation was PRONAMACHCS's extensive coverage of the Andean
region with regional offices and with well qualified and motivated technical personnel, especially working
as field extension agents.     In addition, PRONAMACHCS's years of experience in natural resource
conservation meant that it had an effective and well tested package of natural resource management
technologies available to extend to farmers. The provision of adequate logistical support and incentives
to field agents combined with farmer participation requirements of the rural investments resulted in
substantial presence of these agents in the rural communities. This presence compensated in part for a
relatively high degree of turnover and rotation.

There were a number of implementation weaknesses that reduced the potential impact of the project.
These included: (i) interpretation of the project objectives related to participation in a limited way,
resulting in the programming of project investments in the first four years of the project with a reduced
level of participation by communities compared to project objectives; (ii) inadequate procedures and
mechanisms for procurement of tools, seeds and other inputs for farmers groups, which resulted in many
instances of poor quality, lack of timeliness, and concern by farmer leaders for the lack of transparency;
(iii) rigid procedures for budgeting and accessing resources within PRONAMACHCS and within the
government as a whole resulted in frequent delays in completing time-sensitive procurement of key
inputs; (iii) over-programming of extension agents' work so that they lacked time needed to complete
activities with each community and conservation committee; this over-programming led to exceeding
physical targets but contributed to the lack of implementation of the participatory planning activities; (iv)
frequent turnover and rotation of PRONAMACHCS field staff reducing continuity of program activities
and effectiveness; and (v) PRONAMACHCS's management did not identify and address the
contradiction and trade-offs between two very different organizational objectives, i.e. the objective of
achieving a broad coverage of on-farm conservation investments to benefit individual poor farmers, vs.
the objective of improving natural resource management at a community and micro-catchment level,
developing capacity among local organizations to address conservation issues.

Since April 2004, the World Bank's Department of Institutional Integrity has been reviewing allegations
which surfaced in local news reports of fraud and corruption in the project. This review is still ongoing.
The commencement of a review does not suggest that misuse of Bank funds has occurred. Such a
determination is the purpose of the investigation itself. Upon completion of its investigations, the Bank
will communicate its findings, if any, to the Government of Peru and will determine whether it is
necessary to take any administrative actions.

5.4 Costs and financing:

There was no significant change in project costs from that anticipated by the SAR, nor were there any
delays in the implementation of the investment component.         A substantial delay was experienced,
however, in the implementation of participatory assessments and planning for actions at the
micro-catchment level and the establishment of micro-catchment committees. While PRONAMACHCS
staff were effective in providing assistance in soil and water conservation, many lacked the necessary
awareness, skills, and incentives related to work in micro-catchment management and participation
which would have resulted in more attention to the time-consuming task of building management



                                                     - 9 -

capacity. Because of the delay in implementing the micro-catchment planning element of the project,
the project was extended by nine months, from the original closing date of June 30, 2003, to a closing
date of March 31, 2004. The extension permitted an opportunity to field test and begin to apply the new
participatory planning procedures and train PRONAMACHCS staff in them.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Rating: Likely. In the case of rural areas, the project had two objectives, to invest in sustainable natural
resource management and to develop institutional capacity within local rural organizations. In the first
area, evaluation studies have shown the investments made are likely to be sustainable, due principally to
the commitment by individual farmers and farmer groups to maintain the improvements, as benefits from
them were obvious and important. With regard to the second objective, only in limited instances is there
likely to have been a sustainable institutional capacity developed within local organizations to pursue
natural resource management issues at the community or micro-catchment level. However, assuming
PRONAMACHCS continues to provide support, it is likely that the 9 micro-catchment management
committees and the 3 watershed committees will continue to function and will over the medium to long
term have a positive impact on larger questions of natural resource management in their respective
areas.

The project objectives also included developing institutional capacity of the government, via
PRONAMACHCS, and of local, rural organizations to bring about sustainable economic development
through improved natural resource management. In the case of PRONAMACHCS in spite of frequent
staff changes and rotations and in spite of delays in developing the participatory natural resource
management methods and approach, by the end of project PRONAMACHCS had strengthened its
capacity to support conservation by farmer groups and to work with local organizations to develop
integrated, regional approaches to natural resource management.                    With a strengthened
PRONAMACHCS, the sustainability of government's program in this area is more certain.
PRONAMACHCS did not, however, develop the capacity, as anticipated in the project design, to bring an
integrated, participatory planning approach to its full portfolio of investment activities. Implementation
demonstrated that work with micro-catchment and watershed committees requires substantial time and
level of staffing, and that PRONAMACHCS was not prepared to conduct these efforts on a broad scale.
Thus it is uncertrain whether this aspect will be sustained. Nevertheless, there is substantial interest at
national and local levels, and if there is a decision to continue this work, the enhance capacity of
PRONAMACHCS and the individual professionals trained by the project will allow it to move ahead
effectively.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

PRONAMACHCS has committed itself to continuing to work with micro-catchment and watershed
management committees, and in the post-project period, is using national resources and loans from the
Japanese Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) to support these efforts. It will be important for the
Bank, through its ongoing work in rural development in Peru, to stay informed regarding the progress
being made, and identify ways to build on these efforts through new operations, including the Sierra
Rural Poverty project under preparation, and the Vilcanota Valley Rehabilitation and Management
project which has just been approved by the Bank Executive Board.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance during the lending phase was satisfactory. It did well in this phase of the project
in supporting a number of key design decisions, including: (i) limiting the project to the Andean region,



                                                   - 10 -

rather than as indicated in the 1994 CAS including both coastal and Andean farmers; (ii) building on the
successful experience of PRONAMACHCS, helping government to expand coverage of that program;
(iii) conducting a social assessment, providing important input to the design of the investment component
and identifying the need to address women's participation in the project; and (iv) introducing new
participative natural resource management approaches to PRONAMACHCS's program. The Bank could
have done better in the lending phase if it had: (i) worked with government to address and resolve
contradictions and explicitly make decisions regarding trade-offs between its existing program of farm
level soil conservation works and the introduction of micro-catchment participatory diagnosis and
planning; (ii) helped design a program for institutional incentives and strengthening that would have
allowed PRONAMACHCS to begin implementing the participatory planning process much earlier in the
project.

7.2 Supervision:

Project supervision performance by the Bank was overall satisfactory. Supervision was conducted by
task team leaders based in the Lima Field Office. Contact with the implementing agency was regular,
with formal missions to conduct field reviews twice a year combined with other field visits. The quality of
supervision increased during project implementation. In the first four years supervision did a good job on
addressing technical and information management issues, but did not identify the weaknesses in
implementation of participatory management and entreprenuerial investments that was raised during the
MTR in January 2001. The MTR was conducted by a senior task team leader who was simultaneously
the ESSD sector leader, who remained as TTL for the critical years following the MTR. Overall, the
Bank team did well in reviewing technical, administrative, procurement, and financial aspects of the
project and helping to identify solutions. Some examples of this were financial mangement missions to
improve accountability for funds and the flow of funds to conservation committees, the conduct of a
special procurement audit to address concerns about the quality of procurement identified in supervision,
and substantial technical assistance provided to PRONAMACHCS via supervision missions in the three
years following the MTR (2001-2003) to assist in developing and field testing a participatory approach to
micro-catchment and watershed management, bringing international experience, including the southern
Brazil experience, to bear. The staffing pattern of the supervision team reflects well the generally high
quality of supervision during the project, with the repeated participation of key specialists in the areas of
agricultural economics, natural resource management, institutional development, social participation,
and financial management.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The overall performance of the Bank lending and supervision was satisfactory, although improvements
could have been made by more persistently and effectively addressing certain project implementation
problems, and by an earlier identification of a number of issues, including the inadequate implementation
of participatory diagnosis and planning and micro-watershed management.            Bank performance with
regard to reforms in sector policies and institutions, via the preparation of the Programmatic Social
Reform Loans, complicated project implementation during its final years. The Bank's advocacy of the
merging of PRONAMACHCS with another poverty reduction program, FONCODES, was justified as a
tool for improving the efficiency of both institutions. However, the poorly managed process by which the
merger was conducted, including government's eventual reversal of the decision to merge, led to
problems.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Government's performance during the preparation phase was satisfactory. Preparation was done by
PRONAMACHCS, the project implementation agency, and resulted in the effective targetting of project
resources to poor Andean communities, with a realistic and useful technical package to extend to those
farmers. Performance was less effective in identifying how the participatory planning process might be
realistically integrated into PRONAMACHCS's procedures in order to improve individual investments as



                                                     - 11 -

well as to develop natural resource management capacity at the micro-watershed level.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government's performance during implementation was overall satisfactory. During the first four years of
the project PRONAMACHCS received full support of the government for project implementation. While
resources available to PRONAMACHCS were reduced, especially in 2002 and 2003, this reduction did
not have a significant impact on achieving project objectives.          In late 2001, government took an
important step to improve the quality of poverty reduction programs with the announcement of a decision
to merge various programs. However, government's incomplete steps taken to merge PRONAMACHCS
with FONCODES in particular, within the Ministry of Women and Social Development, created problems
for PRONAMCHCS during the final 3 years of the project. During that time, some operational resources
were withdrawn from PRONAMACHCS and PRONAMACHCS personnel were in most cases limited to
monthly renewable contracts in expectation of the transfer, which finally, in late 2003, was cancelled.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

PRONAMACHCS's overall performance was satisfactory in spite of a number of drawbacks. On the
positive side, PRONAMACHCS maintained a strong field presence in its regional offices and with its field
personnel, with the quality and commitment of extension workers and specialists consistently high. The
project, by design, focused interventions in areas of difficult access, and thus the achievements are even
more remarkable. Implementation of the key rural investment component depended on active farmer
participation and this was achieved in nearly all cases, by the actions of field extension agents that
worked effectively in 198 micro-catchments in 9 departments. However, the economic and financial
returns might have been stronger and the achievement of broader natural resource management
capacity greater if certain implementation issues had been better identified and addressed.
Implementation issues that should have been better addressed by PRONAMACHCS during
implementation were: (i) failure of the strategy to succeed in its objective of involving women, especially
in the failure of the entrepreneurial initiatives for women's groups; (ii) poor personnel management by
PRONAMACHCS relating to the rapid turnover and rotation of staff, reducing the quality of technical and
organizational work with conservation committees and communities; (iii) poor management of
procurement for famer investments by some regional offices, including delays, poor quality, and poor
transparency; and (iv) lack of integration of the participation and micro-watershed management aspects
of the project in the early phase of investment planning and implementation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Despite the problems identified above, the overall Borrower performance for this project was rated
satisfactory due to the achievement by PRONAMACHCS field staff of important advances in natural
resource management in partnership with and to the benefit of poor famers and communities.

8. Lessons Learned

The mixed results of this overall positive project yields some interesting lessons for the future:

1. The project clearly demonstrated the benefits of natural resource management practices for
    smallholders in the Andean sierra of Peru. Farmers responded with enthusiam to the technical
    messages of the project, participated actively in the investments, and appear to be committed to
    maintaining improvements. The high level of farmer appreciation for the technical message was
    impressive, and there has been a clear and measurable contribution by the project to poverty
    reduction.

2. For projects with a significant institutional development objective, there needs to be strong
    commitment by the implementing agency with actions and time programmed in the first years of the
    project to achieve the changes intended. At the outset of implementation of this project, key aspects



                                                     - 12 -

    of the institutional development objectives did not have either the commitment or the needed
    implementation strategy and suffered as a result.

3. One handicap to implementation is the lack of clear definition of new concepts and practices, which
    in this case included "participatory planning" and "micro-catchment management."           Confusion
    regarding the meaning of these concepts contributed to the delay in the identification of project
    implementation problems by the project implementing agency and the Bank supervision team.
    Getting common understanding and agreement regarding project objectives and plans among all key
    stakeholders is essential to effective implementation.

4. Investment in works can easily crowd out attention by project implementors to more difficult
    institutional development objectives as was the case in this project. To compensate for this, physical
    targets should probably be reduced and/or made contingent on progress in institutional development.
    In addition, supervision of efforts in institutional development needs to be strengthened both by the
    implementing agency management and by the Bank supervision team.

5. Involving an external agency in assisting communities in procurement should be done under strict
    limitations and guidelines. In the present project, PRONAMACHCS became the manager of the
    procurement process and farmers were disempowered.

6. In spite of an excellent social assessment during preparation, and the inclusion of the
    recommendations of that assessment in the project design, the project impact was minimal in
    increasing the historically low levels of women's involvement in natural resource management
    efforts. Drawing from the experience of other projects (e.g. the Peru Rural Roads project) it is
    essential that there be implementation agency staff resources and Bank supervision focused on
    gender issues during implementation.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                     - 13 -

- 14 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no cofinanciers to this project.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
There were no other partners in implementing this project.


10. Additional Information

n/a




                                                 - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome / Impact Indicators:

               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in SAR                             Actual/Latest Estimate
Full use of community participatory planning No project interventions without first carrying In-depth participatory planning was carried
methods by PRONAMACHCS in project area out participatory planning                            out in only 9 micro-catchments. In the other
                                                                                             191 micro-catchments community groups
                                                                                             participated actively in project activities but
                                                                                             did not carry out participatory planning or
                                                                                             establish a micro-catchment management
                                                                                             committee.

General introduction of soil conservation in Soil conservation practices introduced in       Completed. Soil conservation practices were
project committees                           100% of project committees                      introduced in all of the project conservation
                                                                                             committees (1,801).

Autonomy and sustainability of the           1250 autonomous and sustainable                 1,801 conservation committees were created.
community organizations                      community organizations                         These committees focused on project tasks
                                                                                             and most will not be sustained. 9
                                                                                             micro-catchment committees and 4
                                                                                             watershed committees established by the
                                                                                             project are more likely to be sustainable.

Economic rate of return of at least 12%      Economic rate of return of 12%                  Economic rate of return of 12.3%.



Output Indicators:

               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in SAR                             Actual/Latest Estimate
Micro catchment studies completed            130 micro-catchment studies completed           127 completed

Participatory diagnostics                    1,700 diagnostics completed                     1,515 diagnostics completed, in the 1,184
                                                                                             communties participating in the project.
                                                                                             Diagnostics, however, were not conducted
                                                                                             with the expected level and breadth of
                                                                                             community and stakeholder participation.

Construction of terraces and infiltration    12,350 has. of terraces                         26,843 has. of terraces completed
canals                                       14,800 km. of infiltration canals               18,071 km. of infiltration canals completed

Irrigation works completed                   800 technical dossiers completed                1,247 technical dossiers completed
                                             465 km. of canals constructed                   818 km. of canals constructed
                                             280 water reservoirs constructed                315 water reservoirs constructed
                                             100 pressure irrigation installed               100 pressure irrigation installed

Reforestation plantations                    540 nurseries                                   1,296 nurseries
                                             19.8 million plants                             57.4 million plants
                                             26,000 has. under reforestation mgmt.           42,110 has. under reforestation mgmt.

Construction of community warehouses         430 community warehouses constructed            624 community warehouses completed

Insitution building                          125 participatory planning training events      40 participatory planning training events
                                             5,200 consultation meetings                     7,314 consultation meetings
                                             520 micro-catchment committee promotion         2,177 micro-catchment committee promotion
                                             events                                          events
                                             250 training events in revolving funds          n/a
                                             1,100 women's initiatives                       381 women's initiatives supported
                                             No target for total training events             6,342 rural extension training events




                                                                 - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Demand Identification                                        0.40            0.89             189
Rural Investments                                           67.20          85.10              110
Community Strengthening                                      3.10            5.10             143
Project Implementation                                      10.30            6.82              58

Total Baseline Cost                                         81.00          97.91
 Physical Contingencies                                      4.00
 Price Contingencies                                         8.20
                        Total Project Costs                 93.20          97.91
                  Total Financing Required                  93.20          97.91


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         8.60         0.00          8.60
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (7.70)         (0.00)       (7.70)
2. Goods                          1.20              4.50        26.10         0.00         31.80
                                  (1.10)           (3.80)      (23.60)        (0.00)      (28.50)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         5.20         0.00          5.20
Consulting Services and           (0.00)           (0.00)      (4.60)         (0.00)       (4.60)
Training
4. Agricultural Inputs            0.00              2.30         8.40         0.00         10.70
                                  (0.00)           (1.90)      (6.50)         (0.00)       (8.40)
5. Unskilled Labor                0.00              0.00         0.00         27.90        27.90
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Incremental Operating          0.00              0.00         3.70         5.30          9.00
costs                             (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.80)         (0.00)       (1.80)
   Total                          1.20              6.80        52.00         33.20        93.20
                                  (1.10)           (5.70)      (44.20)        (0.00)      (51.00)




                                                - 17 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  2. Goods                                 1.30               0.00             38.40             0.00             39.70
                                          (1.10)             (0.00)           (34.60)            (0.00)           (35.70)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00              5.50             0.00              5.50
  Consulting Services and                 (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.20)            (0.00)           (4.20)
  Training
  4. Agricultural Inputs                   0.00               0.00              6.90             0.00              6.90
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (6.30)            (0.00)           (6.30)
  5. Unskilled Labor                       0.00               0.00              0.00             40.50            40.50
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Incremental Operating                 0.00               0.00              2.10             3.20              5.30
  costs                                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.10)            (0.00)           (2.10)
      Total                                1.30               0.00             52.90             43.70            97.90
                                          (1.10)             (0.00)           (47.20)            (0.00)           (48.30)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Demand Identification          0.47                                  0.81         0.08                  172.3
Rural Investments             43.21         6.28        27.90       40.10         4.49      40.55       92.8      71.5    145.3
Community Strengthening        3.11         0.46                     3.73         1.36                  119.9    295.7
Project Implementation         4.20         7.53                     3.72         3.10                  88.6      41.2

  Appraisal estimate figures include physical and price contingencies.




                                                          - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The economic and financial impact of the project was analyzed through the calculation of cost-benefit of
discounted funds flow (using a 12% discount rate), comparing areas with and without project intervention
over a period of 20 years (1997-2016).        The model used for the calculation was FARMOD.             (See
reference to complete report, "Evaluacion Economica-financiera del Proyecto Manejo de Recursos
Naturales para el Alivio de la Probreza en la Sierra," May 2004, in Annex 7.)

Beneficiaries and areas covered

The analysis took into account the impact of the project on the 31,061 farm families (with 415,574 has.)
participating in the project through 1,184 conservation committees in an equal number communities.
While not considered in the analysis of project benefits presented below, another 56,641 farm families
(with 571,302 has.) can be considered to have indirectly benefited from the project intervention. These
families did not participate in the community conservation committees, but they resided in communities
where at least 20% of the community did participate in the conservation committee project and many of
them participated in discrete project activities, including reforestation and small scale irrigation.

Benefits

The benefits calculated by the economic and financial analysis include:             (i) benefits for gains in
production, and (ii) benefits due to losses in production avoided. The gains in production resulting from
the execution of the project were created by improved soil conditions, changes in cropping patterns and
other productive activities, and changes in the use of inputs for production. The losses avoided are
those losses in production that would have occurred due to continued erosion and loss of soil humidity.
Without the project it is estimated that agricultural and forage production would have fallen 10% in 20
years.

The total investment costs considered in the evaluation was US$85.4 million, representing the total
funds, materials and labor cost financed or provided by the Government of Peru, the beneficiaries, and
the World Bank loan for rural investment and project monitoring (components 1 and 4). The cost of the
demand identification and community strengthening components were not included in the analysis.

Farm models

To conduct the analysis, three farm models were defined as representative of the 31,061 family farms
which are considered the direct beneficiaries of the project. These farms entered participation in the
project from 1997 through 2001, with the rhythm of their incorporation presented in the table below.


Farms entering
participation in the             1997              1998             1999              2000             2001
Project                                       (cumulative)       (cumulative)   (cumulative)        (cumulative)
High Altitude
(>3,500 m)                       3,459             8,278            9,760            10,749           12,355
Middle Altitude
(betw. 3,500 m                   3,705            10,939            12,351           13,939           17,644
and 2,300 m)
Low Altitude
(< 2,300 m)                       22                685             1,062             1,062            1,062

Totals                           7,186          19,902             23,173          25,750             31,061




                                                      - 19 -

Results of Analysis

The project created important increases in benefits, a combination of increased self-consumption of
agricultural products and net incomes, for the 31,061 direct beneficiary families. The benefits for them
increase each year until year 6, after which the value of the increase wavers between US$322 and
US$602, which represents an average annual increase of approximately 23% (minimum of 17.5% and
maximum of 27.7%) in the three cases analyzed. The net present value of the incremental benefits
(from 1997 to 2016) of the three farm models is between US$1,856 and US$2,682. Approximately 82%
of the value is due to increases in productivity generated by the works and actions of the project and the
18% remaining to the losses in production avoided by the project. The NPV indicates an increased
capacity to invest or to consume by the direct beneficiaries, that has resulted from the project.



  Family farm models        Total NPV total        NPV losses avoided         NPV increases produced

                                  US$                       US$                         US$

High Altitude                     2,682                     471                        2,211

Middle Altitude                   1,856                     349                        1,507

Low Altitude                      2,637                     450                        2,187

Physical Aggregates of the Project

The first table below compares the anticipated annual production in Year 20 (2016) of the group of farms
that participated in the project with a group of similar farms that did not participate. It is presented in
terms of total production and of that production the amount expected to be consumed on the farm. The
second table below then presents the expected amount of agricultural products, services and inputs that
will be purchased by these two groups of farms in Year 20.


            Categories              Year 20 - no Proj           Year 20 - with Proj       Increase %

       Annual Production

Agricultural products - tn                  278,619                   359,736                 29.1

Forage products - tn                        684,034                   868,228                 26.9

Livestock products - tn                      71,130                    78,056                  9.7

Forestry products - m3                      904,778                  1,476,993                63.2

Animal traction - day                       838,647                   931,830                 11.1

        Autoconsumption

Agricultural products - tn                   79,126                    87,401                 10.5

Forage products - tn                        714,165                   736,548                  3.1

Livestock products - tn                      45,065                    62,003                 37.6

Forestry products - m3                      900,253                   900,253                  0.0

Animal traction - day                       316,939                    396,044                25.0




                                                   - 20 -

   Purchase of prime mat'ls

Agricultural products - tn                             1.165                 768               -34.1

Forage products - tn                                   70.736                  -

Forestry products - m3                                 83.896                7.280             -91.3

       Purchase of inputs

Seeds - tn                                                -                   37

Chemical fertilizers - tn                              1,509                 8,772             481.3

Pesticides - tn                                         346                  528               52.6

Animal traction contract - day                       325,590                437,589            34.4

Containers - sacks                                  4,643,856             5,391,560            16.1

Animals - heads                                        72,372               72,372              0.0

          Labor - day                              20,473,615             22,771,492           11.2


The table above reveals three important changes in the beneficiary farms: (i) a dramatic decrease in the
need to purchase agricultural products (esp. wheat), pasture grass/forage, firewood, and construction
wood; (ii) growth in purchases of chemical inputs with fertilizer increasing nearly five times, and
pesticides approximately 53%; and (iii) increase of 11% in the use of family labor for agricultural
production.   The table shows the project generating an increase of the amount of family labor of
approximately 2,300,000 person days.                   This incremental demand signifies a decrease in rural
unemployment equivalent to 7,660 persons.

Economic results of the project.

In the table below, the economic results of the 183 micro-watersheds and 1,184 conservation
committees, simulated to year 20, and compared to the same group in year 20 without the project.


         Total proyecto                     Year 20 ­ no project     Year 20 ­ with project   Increase

  183 micro-catchments (1,184                 US$'000 per year          US$'000 per year        %
          communities)

    Brute value of production                                                                   30.7
                                                      79,314                103,688

        Auto-consumption                                                                        12.2
                                                       37,454               42,040

     Net value of production                                                                    47.3
                                                       41,860               61,648

          Net income (1)
                                                       -5,319                6,214

      Economic benefits (2)                                                                     50.2
                                                      32,135                48,254
(1)     Subtracting the economic value of family labor.
(2)     Autoconsumption plus net income.

The net present value of the flow of incremental annual economic benefits of the project and the project
economic rate of return are:



                                                            - 21 -

            Total project              NPV total        Average NPV per             Economic Rate of

     183 micro-catchments               US$'000      micro-catchment US$                   Return

       (1,184 communities)                                                                  %

   NPV and Economic Rate of             1.054                5,768                         12.3
               Return



In conclusion it can be said that the project was economically beneficial and has created increases in
income for farmers in the 183 micro-watersheds involved. The annual increments in economic benefits
after the stages of investment and implementation reach values that vary between US$ 11.9 million and
US$ 16.2 million. The net present value of the incremental economic benefits, considering an annual
discount rate of 12%, is greater than US$1.0 million and the internal rate of return is 12.3%.

Finally, if the calculation of benefits were made including the indirect economic benefits for the 56,641
remaining families in those same communities, the economic rate of return would increase to 15% and
the US$ 1.0 million NPV would increase to US$ 10.1 million.          This increase would be due to the
calculation of the losses of productivity avoided by these 56,641 families in the 913 communities in
which the project worked directly with more than 20% of the area.




                                                   - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              May 1995                  2    WATER RESOURCES SPEC.
                                             (1); SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1)

              October 1995              5    AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1); SOCIAL
                                             SCIENTIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1); NAT
                                             RESOURCES MAN (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT (1)

              March 1996                6    AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1); SOCIAL
                                             SCIENTIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (2); NAT
                                             RESOURCES MAN (1); NGO
                                             SPEC. (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              June 1996                 2    AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1); NAT
                                             RESOURCES MAN (1)

              November 1996             6    LAWYER (1);
                                             AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1); SOCIAL
                                             SCIENTIST (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT SPEC (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT SPEC (1);
                                             COUNTRY OFFICER (1)

 Supervision

              January 1997              3    SOCIAL SCIENTIST (2); SR.        HS              S
                                             AGRIC. ECONOMIST (1)

              July 1997                 4    AGRICULTURAL                     S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); SOCIAL
                                             SCIENTIST (1); NGO
                                             COORDINATOR (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)

              February 1998             4    AGRICULTURAL                     S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (2); NGO
                                             COORDINATOR (1);
                                             AGRICULTURALIST (1)



                                              - 23 -

July 1998        2 AGRICULTURAL                S    S
                   ECONOMIST (1); NGO
                   COORDINATOR (1)

February 1999    7 RURAL DEVELOPMENT (1);      S    S
                   SOCIAL PARTICIPATION (1);
                   AGRICULTURAL
                   ECONOMIST (1);
                   AGRONOMIST (1);
                   INFORMATION SPECIALIST
                   (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                   (1); ECONOMIST (1)

December 1999    5 RURAL DEVELOPMENT (1);      S    S
                   MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                   (1); SOCIAL PARTICIPATION
                   (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                   (1); INFORMATION
                   SPECIALIST (1)

July 2000        6 RURAL DEVELOPMENT (2);      S    S
                   SOCIAL PARTICIPATION (1);
                   FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                   TRAINING SPECIALIST (1);
                   INFORMATION SPECIALIST
                   (1)
February 2001    4 AGRICULTURAL                S    S
                   ECONOMIST (1);
                   INSTITUTIONAL SPEC. (1);
                   PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                   (1); NAT. RESOURCES MAN.
                   (1)

November 2001    4 AGRICULTURAL                S    S
                   ECONOMIST (1);
                   INSTITUTIONAL SPEC. (1);
                   PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                   NAT. RESOURCES MAN. (1)

August 2002      5 AGRICULTURAL                S    S
                   ECONOMIST (1); RURAL
                   INFRASTRUCTURE SPEC. (1);
                   FIN MGMT SPEC. (1); NAT.
                   RESOURCES MAN. (1)

November 2002    3 RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE        S    S
                   (1); NAT. RESOURCES MAN.
                   (1); PROCUREMENT (1)

May 2003         4 RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE        S    S
                   (1); AGRONOMIST (1); NAT
                   RESOURCES MAN SPEC (1);



                   - 24 -

                                           ICR SPEC (1)

               December 2003           1   RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE               S    S
                                           (1)

 ICR
               February 2004          3     INSTITUTIONAL DEV                 S    S
                                            SPEC (1);
                                            AGRICULTURAL
                                            ECONOMIST (1);
                                            AGRONOMIST (1)

               May 2004               3     INSTITUTIONAL DEV SPEC            S    S
                                            (1); AGRICULTURAL
                                            ECONOMIST (1);
                                            AGRONOMIST (1); FIN
                                            MGMT SPEC (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            38.9                           80.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 11.7                           42.2
  Supervision                          113.4                         330.7
  ICR                                   10.0                           40.0
  Total                                174.0                         493.8




                                            - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Aide Memoires, Project Status Reports, IEPS, FEPS, SAR, Legal Documents, Minutes of Negotiations.

Evaluación Participativa de los Resultados Logrados por el Proyecto "Manejo de Recursos Naturales
para el Alivio de la Pobreza en la Sierra" -- Banco Mundial. Documento Final, January 2004, Equipo de
Consultoría Norma Canales Rivera, Maria Gutierrez Santayana, Custodio Bojorquez Reyes, Raul Canto
Refamozo.

Evaluación de Impactos Económicos, Productivos, Sociales y Ambientales del PRONAMACHCS.
Informe Final, 08/01/2001, Instituto Apoyo.

PRONAMACHCS. Manual Operativo del Proyecto "Manejo de Recursos Naturales para el Alivio de la
Pobreza en la Sierra," April 2000.

PRONAMACHCS. Informes Semestrales de Ejecución del Proyecto "Manejo de Recursos Naturales
para el Alivio de la Pobreza en la Sierra".

Proyecto de Manejo de Recursos Naturales para el Alivio de la Pobreza en la Sierra, Evaluación
Económica-Financiera del Proyecto, Informe de Consultoría. Guillermo Wood, Consultor FAP/CP, May
2004.

Wood, Guillermo and Villachica, Hugo (FAO-CP consultants) "Evaluación Económica-financiera del
Proyecto Manejo de Recursos Naturales para el Alivio de la Pobreza en la Sierra," May 2004.

ESAN - Escuela Superior de Administración de Negocios para Graduados.             "Evaluación final del
Proyecto Manejo de Recursos Naturales para el Alivio de la Pobreza en la Sierra. Lima, Peru. June
2004.

Pedro Francke Ballive, "Una evaluación de los programas de lucha contra la pobreza rural
PRONAMACHCS y FONCODES," Cuadernos Andinos, 2000.




                                                  - 28 -

Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's Implementation Completion Report

              INFORME DE CULMINACIÓN DE LA IMPLEMENTACION DEL PROYECTO
     MANEJO DE RECURSOS NATURALES PARA EL ALIVIO DE LA POBREZA EN LA SIERRA

Unidad Ejecutora :          Programa Nacional de Manejo de Cuencas Hidrográficas y Conservación de Suelos ­
                            PRONAMACHCS - MINISTERIO DE AGRICULTURA - PERU

I.       Introducción
El Programa Nacional de Manejo de Cuencas Hidrográficas y Conservación de Suelos ­ PRONAMACHCS, del
Ministerio de Agricultura del Perú, como unidad ejecutora del proyecto, ha elaborado el presente informe de
Culminación de la Implementación del Proyecto financiado por el el préstamo BIRF 4130-PE, en cumplimiento de
los compromisos asumidos ante el Banco Mundial, y para su elaboración se ha aplicado los lineamientos
suministrados por la entidad financiera para la preparación del ICR (Implementation Completion Reports).

II.      Principales indicadores de performance

(HS= Altamente satisfactorio, S= Satisfactorio, U= Insatisfactorio, HL= Altamente probable, L= probable, UN= improbable,
HUN= Altamente improbable, HU= Altamente insatisfactorio, H= Alto, SU= Considerable, M= Modesto, N= desatendible.)

                                           Resultados:      S
                                       Sostenibilidad:      L
              Impactos en el desarrollo institucional:      S
                              Performance del Banco:        S
                         Performance del Prestatario:       S

III.     Evaluación de los objetivos de desarrollo, diseño y calidad al inicio.

3.1      Objetivos originales (Según Staff Appraisal Report):

Objetivo General: "Ayudar a aliviar la pobreza de la población rural en la Sierra"

Objetivos Específicos:      a) Mejorar el manejo sustentable de sus recursos naturales mediante medidas de
conservación de suelos y reforestación a nivel de microcuencas; b) Aumentar la productividad y producción rural
mediante la introducción de riego y prácticas agrícolas mejoradas; y , c) Fortalecer sus organizaciones rurales para
que ellos lleguen a ser entidades autónomas y sustentables.

En términos generales los objetivos fueron claramente señalados y realistas, acordes con las prioridades nacionales
en cuanto a la lucha contra la pobreza.

De otro lado, escoger al PRONAMACHCS como la institución ejecutora, facilitó la rápida implementación y
ejecución del Proyecto, debido a su vasta experiencia en la promoción del manejo sostenible de los recursos
naturales, su amplia cobertura logística y, su propuesta técnica adecuada a la realidad altoandina.

3.2      Objetivos revisados: No hubieron

3.3      Componentes originales: El Proyecto se diseñó con cuatro componentes (Staff Appraisal Report):

i)       Identificación participativa y formulación de las inversiones rurales en las microcuencas: Que tiene
por objeto promocionar la participación activa de los beneficiarios del proyecto en la identificación, la
planificación, diseño e implementación de las inversiones rurales, tomando en cuenta el potencial de los recursos
de agua y suelo dentro de la microcuenca.

La planificación participativa se puso en práctica, sin embargo, inicialmente se aplicaron con distintos niveles de



                                                           - 29 -

profundidad y enfoques, basado en experiencias de las propias agencias del PRONAMACHCS. Esto motivó
posteriormente la necesidad de unificar criterios y herramientas que puedan aplicarse homogéneamente en todo el
ámbito de intervención.

ii)      Las inversiones rurales: El Proyecto financia las obras, materiales y herramientas, insumos agrícolas y
los servicios de consultoría para preparar e implementar inicialmente cinco tipos de sub proyectos: a) trabajos de
conservación de suelos; b) obras de riego en pequeña escala; c) reforestación y agroforestación; d) introducción de
tecnologías mejoradas de producción; y e) almacenes comunitarios de semillas.

Este componente estuvo bien diseñado teniendo en cuenta la experiencia del ejecutor. Fue muy importante
considerar el aporte no remunerado de la mano de obra comunal para el desarrollo de los trabajos, que constituye
una modalidad de trabajo tradicional en los Andes Peruanos.

iii)     El fortalecimiento institucional de las organizaciones comunales: Financia la capacitación y asistencia
técnica a las comunidades en: planificación participativa, establecimiento de 50 Comités de Gestión de
Microcuencas, y en la gestión financiera que les permita administrar cuentas de inversión, un pequeño stock
revolvente de insumos rotatorios con fines agrícolas, e iniciativas empresariales para mujeres.

Este componente estuvo bien diseñado en cuanto a la capacitación. Sin embargo, la implementación de iniciativas
empresariales para beneficio exclusivo de mujeres rurales; presentó problemas de diseño debido al ambicioso
objetivo de generar una empresa en cada comunidad atendida por el proyecto con un financiamiento máximo de
US$ 1,500. Estas deficiencias se corrigieron parcialmente en la ejecución incrementándose el tope de
financiamiento hasta US$ 5,000.

iv)      Operación, manejo, monitoreo y evaluación del Proyecto: Este componente consideró la introducción de
un sistema de manejo de información y de monitoreo del proyecto; entrenamiento a los técnicos de
PRONAMACHCS; y el reforzamiento de la capacidad operativa de la unidad ejecutora.

Componente bien diseñado en cuanto al mejoramiento de las capacidades técnicas, administrativas y especialmente
logísticas de las unidades ejecutoras (vehículos, equipos de oficina, capacitación y gastos de operación) que
permitieron una fluida atención a las organizaciones campesinas localizadas en espacios muy amplios y de difícil
accesibilidad. Igualmente se contemplaron los recursos necesarios para apoyar los sistemas de seguimiento y
evaluación de PRONAMACHCS.

Es necesario mencionar que, el primer y tercer componente estuvieron poco articulados con los objetivos, debido a
que la estrategia del proyecto no se formuló con amplitud. Esto motivó que en plena ejecución se diseñaran
estrategias específicas para facilitar el desarrollo de actividades como las iniciativas empresariales, el sub proyecto
MIMA Sub proyecto Manejo Intensivo de Microcuencas Altoandinas - MIMA y la constitución de Comités de
Gestión de Microcuencas, que eran las innovaciones planteadas en el Proyecto y sobre los cuales la agencia
ejecutora no tenía mayor experiencia.

3.4      Componentes revisados: No fueron revisados

3.5      Calidad al inicio: La calificación es satisfactoria

§        El proyecto guardó relación con los Objetivos de Política indicados en el CAS (Country Assistance
Strategy).
El diseño del Proyecto se enmarcó dentro de los objetivos de política del Banco Mundial definidos en los esquemas
de:

"Desarrollo en Infraestructura" (suministro de agua) y "Desarrollo Social" (provisión de tecnología para la
población más pobre), a la vez que contribuiría a la preservación del medioambiente. Del mismo modo, la
reducción de la pobreza, que sería lograda mediante el liderazgo del sector privado, el crecimiento ambientalmente



                                                          - 30 -

sustentable y las inversiones en bienes y servicios públicos que directamente beneficien a la población pobre.

El Proyecto guardó también relación con el objetivo de la política sectorial agraria del Gobierno Peruano, en el
sentido de convertir a la agricultura de subsistencia en un sector moderno y competitivo, con el fin de mejorar el
ingreso rural y el crecimiento económico por medio de la integración de las comunidades campesinas a la economía
de mercado, atracción de la inversión privada en el sector rural y la creación de empresas comunales en zonas
rurales.

El enfoque propuesto para el proyecto, apoyaba el gran objetivo de reducir la pobreza en su ámbito de atención,
mediante inversiones dirigidas a la construcción de infraestructura rural de pequeña escala y, la promoción del
manejo sustentable de los recursos naturales. La participación directa de las Comunidades Campesinas en el
Proyecto, fue también consistente con el objetivo de reducir el papel del Estado en actividades productivas.
Finalmente, la asistencia técnica y el apoyo tecnológico fortalecerían a las Comunidades Campesinas.

§        Calidad del diseño del proyecto se basó en la experiencia de trabajos desarrollados por la Unidad
Ejecutora. Contribuyó a un buen diseño del proyecto el tener en cuenta que el PRONAMACHCS venía trabajando
por más de 15 años en las zonas altoandinas trabajando con organizaciones campesinas, constituyéndose en
muchos casos en la única presencia formal del Estado desarrollando acciones concretas a favor de pequeños
productores agropecuarios en las líneas de la conservación de suelos, reforestación, infraestructura de riego y
manejo del agua, asi como de apoyo a la producción agropecuaria. Se observaron algunas debilidades en las líneas
innovativas incorporadas en el diseño del proyecto tales como i) las iniciativas empresariales para grupos de
mujeres, esperando lograr una mayor participación de la mujer ii) los comités de gestión a nivel de microcuencas,
que permitiría planificar el manejo de los recursos naturales en un espacio mayor al comunal. En ambos casos, se
soslayó la idiosincrasia del poblador andino, donde existe una cosmovisión diferente a la occidental.

§        Los riesgos previstos fueron mitigados parcialmente. Los mayores riesgos previstos en el diseño de este
proyecto fueron los siguientes: i) Participación insuficiente de las familias de las Comunidades Campesinas
intervenidas; ii) Que los trabajos de conservación de suelos no sean seguidos por prácticas agronómicas mejoradas:
que limitaría sus efectos, y que tendrían incidencia sobre la rentabilidad económica del proyecto; iii) La carencia de
fondos financieros asignados a PRONAMACHCS: eventualidad de que el Gobierno,                      no pueda proveer
adecuadamente de los fondos de contrapartida necesarios.

El primer riesgo fue mitigado al evidenciarse el gran interés de los beneficiarios para ejecutar los trabajos en sus
comunidades, por los beneficios directos (económicos, sociales y ambientales) que significaban. La aplicación de
metodologías participativas, mitigó en parte el riesgo, al orientar mejor los fondos hacia actividades demandadas
por las propias organizaciones campesinas.

Para mitigar el segundo riesgo, se impulsó y promovió un conjunto de prácticas agronómicas, principalmente los
surcos en contorno, la incorporación de materia orgánica y la agroforestería.

Respecto al tercer riesgo, se utilizaron mecanismos de coordinación con Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas. El
Banco Mundial también coadyuvó en estas gestiones recomendando se aseguren los recursos de contrapartida. No
obstante, en los últimos tres años del proyecto se observaron limitaciones originando retrasos y reducción en los
desembolsos, incidiendo en el cumplimiento del programa de trabajo.

IV.      Logro de objetivos y productos.

4.1 Resultados/logro de objetivos: Satisfactorio.

El objetivo general está relacionado con el mejoramiento del nivel de vida de la población intervenida, El más
importante logro es el mejoramiento de su nivel de vida. Los agricultores se han capitalizado tanto en
infraestructura productiva (riego, terrazas, bosques, pastos cultivados) así como en capital humano (gestión
empresarial, tecnología productiva, diversificación productiva), beneficiando directamente a 62,170 familias,
integradas en 1,801 organizaciones campesinas de las zonas rurales más pobres de la sierra y ubicadas



                                                         - 31 -

geográficamente en el ámbito de 198 microcuencas, 22 Provincias y 9 Departamentos.

Para conocer la evolución del nivel de vida de la población beneficiada directamente por el Proyecto, en la
Evaluación Final del Proyecto Estudio de "Evaluación Final del Proyecto Manejo de Recursos Naturales para el
Alivio de la Pobreza en la Sierra", realizado por la Escuela de Administración de Negocios para Graduados ­
ESAN, Junio 2004. se hicieron los análisis por los enfoques de gastos e ingresos. Según el enfoque de gastos, el
análisis permitió demostrar que en las microcuencas intervenidas se ha mejorado el nivel de vida de los miembros
de sus Comités de Conservación, pasando de una situación de extrema pobreza a otra de menor pobreza relativa.
Igualmente, estas familias han diversificado su gasto, ampliando su consumo de productos pecuarios y de servicios
lo cual mejora su nivel de vida.

En el análisis del nivel de bienestar, según el enfoque de ingresos (que contabiliza la percepción de las
transacciones de los bienes y servicios, así como de la venta de fuerza de trabajo), corrobora el impacto positivo
alcanzado en los gastos familiares per-cápita gracias a la intervención del Proyecto. Utilizando el enfoque de los
ingresos, que mantiene la línea de extrema pobreza hasta US$ 30.00 por persona/mes, se verifica la relación entre
la pertenencia a los Comités Conservacionistas y la mejora en la percepción de los ingresos por miembros del
hogar.

Se constata que el mejoramiento del nivel de vida está en función de la diversidad productiva y del acceso al
mercado, lo cual se facilita gracias a la mayor infraestructura productiva que provista por el Proyecto, dotandolo de
un portafolio más variado de oportunidades para su inserción en el mercado.

Respecto al manejo adecuado de los recursos naturales, el Proyecto ha permitido reforzar y masificar la propuesta
técnica del PRONAMACHCS, controlando con ello la erosión y la degradación de las tierras y capacitando a las
organizaciones campesinas en el uso racional de los recursos naturales. Esta labor ha tenido un efecto positivo
sobre el entorno ambiental, disminuyendo la presión poblacional sobre los recursos, mejorando la producción y
productividad agropecuaria, mejorando los ingresos, atenuando con ello los problemas de desocupación, escasez y
encarecimiento de los productos básicos, así como disminuyendo la migración del campo a la ciudad.

4.2 Productos por componentes:

Los resultados más importantes dentro de cada uno de los componentes, fueron los siguientes:

a).      Identificación y planificación participativa: Satisfactorio.

§        Se han desarrollado 127 estudios de microcuenca donde se diagnostican el potencial de los recursos
hídricos, la vulnerabilidad de las tierras, áreas críticas para el manejo y conservación de suelos. Lo ejecutado ha
superado en dos por ciento a lo previsto en el Plan Global (125 estudios).

§        Se han elaborado 1,515 diagnósticos participativos de la situación actual de la comunidad y sus recursos
naturales (uso actual, potencial y vulnerabilidad), infraestructura existente, entre otros. Lo ejecutado superó en 21
por ciento a lo previsto en el Plan Global (1,250 diagnósticos).

La performance podría haber sido altamente satisfactoria si el PRONAMACHCS hubiera homogeneizado, en los
primeros años de implementación del Proyecto, las diversas metodologías de planificación participativa en una sola
propuesta,. Esto se consolidó con el desarrollo y validación del "PCubo" entre los años 2001 -2002.

b).      Inversiones rurales: Altamente satisfactorio.

§        En conservación de suelos. I) Se han construido o rehabilitado 2,579 hectáreas terrazas de absorción, que
son terraplenes para impedir la erosión y generar suelos apropiados para los cultivos, superando en 10 % lo
previsto en el Plan Global (2,350 hectáreas); ii) se han construido 24,264 hectáreas terrazas de formación lenta
destinados a controlar el escurrimiento, favorecer la infiltración de agua y retener el suelo transportado por la
escorrentía, superando en 143 % lo previsto en el Plan Global (10,000 hectáreas); iii) se ha construido 18,071
hectáreas de zanjas de infiltración , destinadas a aumentar la infiltración y humedad del suelo, lo que supera en 22
% lo previsto en el Plan Global (14,800 hectáreas).




                                                         - 32 -

§        El Proyecto financió la construcción y/o rehabilitación de 632 pequeñas obras de riego dirigidos a
expandir y mejorar la eficiencia de la producción agrícola, reduciendo riesgos y aumentando la productividad de los
suelos, los cuales incluyen: i) 212 Sistemas de Agua de Uso Múltiple ­ SAUM, superando en 203 % lo previsto en
el Plan Global (70); ii) 315 reservorios, superando en 13 % lo previsto en el Plan Global (280); iii) 100 sistemas de
riego presurizado lo que es equivalente al 100% del Plan Global; iv) 5 minipresas, (obras que no estuvieron
consideradas en el Plan Global).

§        En forestación se obtuvo: i) construcción o rehabilitación de 1,296 viveros forestales comunales,
alcanzando el 140 % a lo previsto en el Plan Global (540); ii) producción de 57'358,000 plantones, superando en
190 % lo programado en el Plan Global (19'800,000 plantones), iii) se establecieron 42,110 hectáreas de
plantaciones forestales, superando en 152 % a lo programado en el Plan Global (16,700 hectáreas); iv) el manejo
forestal de 18,110 hectáreas que significaron el 70 % de lo programado (26,000 hectáreas).

§        En apoyo a la producción y para asegurar altos rendimientos e ingresos, así como optimizar el uso de las
obras de conservación e infraestructura de riego recientemente construida o rehabilitada, el Proyecto promovió la
adopción de paquetes tecnológicos que comprenden el uso de semillas mejoradas, fertilizantes (orgánicos y
químicos) y agroquímicos, instalándose 14,466 hectáreas de cultivos lo que superó en 56 % a lo programado en el
Plan Global (9,300 hectáreas).. Asimismo, se construyeron 624 pequeños almacenes para semillas, otros insumos y
cosechas, superando en 45 % a lo programado en el Plan Global (430 almacenes).

c).      Fortalecimiento de las organizaciones campesinas: Satisfactorio.

§        Se han desarrollado 40 eventos de planificación participativa lo que ha significado el 32 % de los eventos
programados en el Plan Global (125 eventos programados), y se ejecutaron 7,314 reuniones de consulta que superó
en 41 % a lo programado en el Plan Global (5,200 eventos).

§        Se financiaron 381 iniciativas empresariales que significaron el 35 % de lo programado en el plan global.
En cumplimiento del acuerdo suscrito en la Ayuda Memoria de la Misión del Banco Mundial de Revisión de Medio
Término, realizada del 8 al 31 de enero del año 2001, se detuvo su implementación; Además, se desarrollaron 592
eventos de Capacitación Empresarial, significando el 95 % del Plan Global (625 eventos).

§        Con la finalidad de promover la constitución de Comités de Gestión de Microcuencas, se ejecutaron 2,177
eventos, avance que superó en un 319 por ciento a lo programado en el Plan Global (520 eventos).

§        Un total de 6,342 eventos de extensión rural fueron ejecutados (temas vinculados principalmente al
manejo de cultivos, elaboración de productos y sub-productos agroindustriales, comercialización, entre otros). En el
Plan Global no se estableció meta respecto a este tipo de eventos.

La calificación podría haber sido altamente satisfactoria si se hubiese logrado conformar un mayor número de
Comités de Gestión a nivel de microcuencas. La realidad mostró que este resultado requería un período de
maduración mayor que el previsto en el diseño del Proyecto y, por lo tanto, la presión de las expectativas comunales
determinó concentrar mayormente los esfuerzos a este nivel.

d).      Ejecución y monitoreo del proyecto: Satisfactorio

§        Para la ejecución del Proyecto se adquirieron 25 camionetas doble tracción, asi como 220 motocicletas
para el desplazamiento de los agentes extensionistas.

§        El Proyecto financió la capacitación del personal profesional, técnico y administrativo: i) 30 cursos para
profesionales; ii) 32 cursos para extensionistas, iii) 18 talleres nacionales.

4.3 Valor presente neto / Tasa interna de retorno:

En el Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) del Proyecto Alivio, se efectuó el análisis de Tasa Interna de Retorno (TIR) en



                                                          - 33 -

dos etapas: 1) primero se analizó el componente de Inversiones Rurales y, 2) luego se agregó al anterior todos los
costos de inversión del proyecto.

El análisis se efectuó en base a 12 modelos agrícolas representativos de las tres zonas observables en la sierra
peruana, según se observa en la tabla siguiente:

                                            Zonas          Sierra          Sierra       Sierra
                                                             Baja          Media         Alta
                     Tecnologías

                     Agricultura en secano:
                     §      Tecnología Tradicional             1             3             5
                     §      Tecnología Mejorada                2             4             6
                     Agricultura bajo riego:
                     §      Tecnología Tradicional             7             9            11
                     §      Tecnología Mejorada                8            10            12



Para cada modelo y por hectárea se simularon escenarios con y sin proyecto. Los beneficios se estimaron para un
horizonte de 20 años. Con dicho flujo y usando tasas de descuento de 8, 10 y 12% para una hectárea, éstas igualan
o están debajo de los costos de inversión de los subproyectos. Se obtuvo una TIR Económica de 17%, sin considerar
los costos de mantenimiento y operación de los subproyectos para el componente total (que incluye subproyectos
con actividades económicas mejoradas o no y reforestación). Para el total de componentes la TIR económica fue de
14%, tras afectar con los costos de mantenimiento.

Al analizar los cuatro componentes del Proyecto la TIR Económica calculada fue del 12%, y está en función de la
Mano de Obra No Calificada y factores de transferencia de pagos.

4.4 Tasa de retorno financiero:

Para el componente de Inversiones Rurales, en el análisis financiero se aplicó la misma metodología utilizada en el
análisis económico pero cambiaron algunos supuestos: 1) Los precios de todos los productos son precios de chacra
para la Sierra; 2) El costo de la mano de obra no calificada estimada en S/. 5 soles por jornal; y 3) Se han incluido
impuestos y débitos para las inversiones.

Entre los resultados se tiene que la TIR Financiera (12%) es menor a la TIR Económica (17%), por el aumento del
costo de la Mano de Obra No Calificada y los impuestos, aunque no considera costos de mantenimiento. Al no
considerar los costos de mantenimiento de los subproyectos en el componente total (actividades agroeconómicas
mejoradas o no), se estima una TIR Financiera del 11%, mientras que adicionando dichos costos la TIR disminuye
a 10%.

Considerando los Cuatro Componentes del Proyecto, se calculó en el Análisis Financiero una TIR de 8%, aunque
es razonable porque se encuentra por encima del costo de Gobierno.

4.5 Impactos de desarrollo institucional: Satisfactorio

La experiencia lograda con la ejecución del Proyecto condujo al PRONAMACHCS a la necesidad de realizar
algunos cambios en la estructura orgánica de la institución, con la finalidad de impulsar nuevas líneas de
actividades que estaban orientadas a dar sostenibilidad a las inversiones y acciones ejecutadas para el manejo y
aprovechamiento racional y sustentable de los recursos naturales. Así se generó una nueva estructura orgánica que
consideraba las áreas técnicas tradicionales del PRONAMACHCS (conservación de suelos, riego y reforestación), y
que incorporaba otras áreas especializadas para apoyar con mayor énfasis el mejoramiento de la tecnología para la
producción y la consolidación de cadenas productivas para rentabilizar los productos campesinos. Igualmente,
sobre la base de las experiencias de los MIMA, fortalecer el manejo integral de cuencas hidrográficas y el
desarrollo rural de la sierra en armonía con el medio ambiente.

Se logró implementar un sistema computarizado de monitoreo de proyectos llamado SIMOP SIMOP: Sistema
Integrado de Monitoreo de Proyectos, que permitió a la institución mejorar sus instrumentos (en calidad y tiempo)
para la gestión del proyecto. Este sistema se terminó de diseñar al inicio del 2003 y cuenta también con un módulo



                                                        - 34 -

denominado SIIR Sistema de Información de Infraestructura de Riego como parte integrante del SIMOP.

En el Proyecto también se dio una participación importante de extensionistas mujeres, llegando a significar en
promedio el 15 por ciento del total de extensionistas durante todo el período de vigencia del Proyecto.

En relación a los beneficiarios del proyecto, se contribuyó en el fortalecimiento a nivel comunal, brindando
entrenamiento a los promotores y promotoras campesinas, y también a sus líderes, que permitieron recuperar, en
distintos lugares del Ande Peruano, el tejido social afectado por el fenómeno subversivo en las décadas de los 80 y
90, precisamente en las zonas de pobreza, parte de las cuales fueron atendidas por el proyecto.

V.        Principales factores que afectaron la implementación y los resultados:

5.1       Factores fuera del control del Gobierno o la Agencia Ejecutora:


     Afectaron positivamente:

-         La buena disponibilidad de algunos Concejos Municipales (Gobiernos Locales) para apoyar las acciones
          de manejo y aprovechamiento de los recursos naturales, posibilitó el establecimiento de convenios de
          cooperación.

-         El alto grado de interés de muchas familias campesinas por mejorar sus recursos naturales.

     Afectaron negativamente:

-         Los factores climáticos afectaron, en algunos años, la marcha normal del Proyecto. El ámbito presenta
          alta variabilidad climática (escasez, prolongación o exceso de lluvias, heladas y nevadas).

-         Limitaciones en las comunicaciones y escasez de servicios bancarios en las zonas del Proyecto, influyeron
          en el manejo oportuno de los fondos y las compras de los materiales e insumos.

-         La presencia de varias entidades de desarrollo que realizan actividades similares pero con estrategias
          básicamente asistencialistas, tuvieron alguna incidencia en el grado de participación de los comuneros.

-         El minifundio y alta dispersión de parcelas de los Comuneros, representaron un límite a la eficiencia
          productiva.

-         Alto grado de analfabetismo, principalmente en la población femenina, afectó la algunas actividades,
          principalmente en el Subproyecto de iniciativas empresariales.

-         El mercado interno constituido por una multiplicidad de intermediarios determina que el agricultor reciba
          precios bajos por sus productos y costos altos por los insumos que utiliza..


5.2       Factores atribuibles al control del Gobierno:


     Afectaron positivamente:

-         La prioridad de Gobierno para desarrollar una política de lucha contra la pobreza facilitó en parte
          la ejecución del Proyecto en las Zonas mas deprimidas del país y que era el ámbito de acción del
          PRONAMACHCS.

     Afectaron negativamente:

-         En los últimos años la intención de transferir el PRONAMACHCS al Fondo Nacional de Compensación
          y Desarrollo Social -FONCODES, originó que el flujo de los recursos financieros disminuya
          sensiblemente mientras no se definiera el destino final.



                                                         - 35 -

-        Las restricciones del Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas para la utilización de recursos de crédito externo,
         se acentuaron en los últimos tres años. A esto se suma la provisión inoportuna de fondos que limitó
         la normal ejecución de subproyectos altamente sensibles a los calendarios agrícola y forestal.

-        Falta de claridad en el inicio de los procesos de descentralización y regionalización impulsado por el
         Gobierno Peruano causaron demoras., y no han permitido definir con claridad la forma en que el
         PRONAMACHCS ha de insertarse en este proceso.

-        El entorno político (cambio de Gobierno en dos oportunidades) que influyó en el desarrollo normal del
         Proyecto y cuya injerencia se pudo notar con mayor claridad sobretodo en los períodos electorales.

5.3      Factores atribuibles al control de la agencia ejecutora:
    Afectaron positivamente:

-        La amplia cobertura del PRONAMACHCS en el área andina, el sistema de administración
         desconcentrado, su posicionamiento como ente especializado en manejo de cuencas de la sierra con
         una propuesta técnica adecuada a la realidad del ámbito altoandino, facilitó la rápida implementación
         y ejecución del Proyecto.

-        La creación de Comités Conservacionistas permitió identificar líderes, varones y mujeres, con
         predisposición y compromiso por conservar y usar de manera sostenible los recursos naturales.

    Afectaron negativamente:

-        Los ceses y rotaciones del personal causaron desfases en los procesos administrativos y técnicos.
         También se generó una sobrecarga de trabajo para los técnicos de campo por atender en promedio
         a un número mayor de organizaciones que el originalmente previsto en el diseño del Proyecto.

-        La débil articulación entre las diferentes líneas de trabajo, fue un problema también generado por el
         continuo cambio de personal y que afectó la implementación del Proyecto.

-        La necesidad de cumplir con las normas nacionales sobre manejo de fondos determinó, en general,
         que en los procesos de adquisiciones los agentes del proyecto tengan mayor protagonismo que los
         representantes de los Comités, reduciendo la generación de capacidades, así como dudas sobre la
         transparencia de algunos procesos.

5.4      Costo y financiamiento:

De acuerdo a lo previsto, el Banco Mundial financiaría el 55 por ciento de los costos totales del Proyecto (93.2
millones de US$). El 85 por ciento del aporte del Banco, financiaría el componente de inversiones rurales (43.2
millones de US$) que se destinaría para la compra de materiales, herramientas, equipos e insumos agrícolas.

El Gobierno Peruano contribuiría con el 15 por ciento del costo del Proyecto que sería destinado para financiar los
programas de capacitación en campo de los campesinos beneficiarios, parte de los costos de los bienes, insumos y
equipos incluidos impuestos), los costos para la contratación de 100 agentes extensionistas y 7 promotores
departamentales, y más de la mitad de los costos operativos incrementales del PRONAMACHCS. Los Beneficiarios
(grupos de campesinos) por su parte, contribuirían con la mano de obra no calificada que valorizada significa el 30
por ciento del costo del Proyecto.




                                                         - 36 -

                      FUENTE DE                  PROYECTADO                          EJECUTADO
                  FINANCIAMIENTO
                                                       US$                              %US$%

                 Beneficiarios                         27.9                           3040.5541.4
                 Gobierno                              14.3                            159.049.2
                 Banco Mundial                         51.0                           5548.3349.4
                 TOTAL                                 93.2                           10097.92100

Como puede apreciarse, no ha habido cambios sustanciales en el costo total del Proyecto, sin embargo, se hizo
evidente las restricciones en algunos períodos para cubrir los gastos de contrapartida nacional a cargo del gobierno.
Esta deficiencia se ha visto compensada por una contribución mayor que la prevista por parte de las organizaciones
campesinas durante la ejecución de las inversiones rurales.

El período de implementación se vio afectado por las dificultades presentadas luego de la revisión de medio
término, motivo por el cual se obtuvo una extensión de nueve meses adicionales (del 30.06.03 hasta el 31.03.04)
para culminar básicamente actividades orientadas al fortalecimiento comunal tales como: la validación y
diseminación de la nueva metodología de planificación participativa, así como, la consolidación de los Comités de
Gestión a nivel de cuencas y microcuencas apoyadas por el Proyecto.

VI.       Sostenibilidad:

6.1       Razonamiento para la calificación de la sostenibilidad:


Calificación: Probable. Un elemento clave para la sostenibilidad del manejo de recursos naturales, es la adopción de
las prácticas conservacionistas promovidas por PRONAMACHCS, que está en relación a la utilidad y beneficio que
perciben los integrantes de los Comités. La sostenibilidad depende del grado en que las inversiones rurales
ejecutadas están en relación a las demandas, necesidades y recursos disponibles de los beneficiarios Canales Rivera
Norma y otros. "Evaluación Participativa de los resultados logrados por el Proyecto". Lima ­ Perú, enero 2004.

Asimismo, la sostenibilidad de los resultados y beneficios del Proyecto está condicionada por otro conjunto de
factores, principalmente macroeconómicos y que permita: i) mejorar los términos de intercambio campo-ciudad que
son desfavorables para el campesino; ii) el acceso al crédito de parte del productor campesino para pueda financiar
su producción agropecuaria; iii) el apoyo para la promoción de la generación de valor agregado a los productos
campesinos mediante la agroindustria; iv) las acciones que se puedan desarrollar para el acceso a mercados
externos; v) la solución a los problemas de titulación de las tierras; vi) la construcción de caminos, vii) el desarrollo
de las telecomunicaciones y, viii) el servicio de información para la comercialización.

Otro elemento que no fue suficientemente desarrollado por el Proyecto, es la organización de los Comités de
Gestión de Microcuencas Órgano que articula a las distintas organizaciones campesinas e instituciones públicas y
privadas que están ubicadas o trabajan en el espacio de una microcuenca y en donde se analizan, discuten y
plantean políticas de desarrollo local de corto, mediano y largo plazo, impulsan procesos para el uso de tecnología
productiva que no deteriore el medio ambiente y se desarrollan otras acciones que contribuirán a mejorar la calidad
de vida de la población de dicho espacio geográfico, en forma concertada y participativa. . En la medida que estos
se puedan organizar en el futuro, como consecuencia del proceso de sensibilización desarrollado por el Proyecto,
podrán contribuir a la sostenibilidad.

Con el mismo propósito de contribuir a la sostenibilidad y expandir las actividades realizadas por el Proyecto, es
necesario un proyecto complementario para consolidar a los campesinos organizados y que han venido manejando
el FONCAPCO El Fondo de Capitalización Comunal (FONCAPCO), es un mecanismo de financiamiento rural
manejado por las propias organizaciones campesinas y, constituido por la entrega de insumos agropecuarios para la
instalación de cultivos anuales y permanentes. Uno de los grandes potenciales que puede ser impulsado, con una
visión económica y estrategias de manejo en función de mercados amplios (no solamente mercados locales), deberá
ser la agricultura orgánica. Dicho proyecto complementario también debe considerar el impulso de mejores



                                                        - 37 -

prácticas agronómicas, manejo de plagas, producción de semillas mejoradas y procesamiento post-cosecha no
contempladas en el Proyecto ejecutado.

6.2       Arreglos transitorios para la operación regular:

En el ámbito de atención del Proyecto, aunque con menor intensidad, algunas de las actividades seguirán siendo
ejecutadas por el PRONAMACHCS con financiamiento propio y a través del personal profesional de las Agencias
Zonales. Se dará una prioridad a aquellas actividades relacionadas con la capacitación para el fortalecimiento
comunal y la comercialización.
Respecto al mantenimiento de las obras de riego, las organizaciones campesinas encargadas de la administración
del agua, cobran una cuota, anual o por campaña, a cada usuario, que sirven para la adquisición de materiales. La
mano de obra no calificada lo seguirá aportando los campesinos mediante sus faenas comunales (a través del Ayni
o Minka). Si hubiera una necesidad de mayores recursos, los Comuneros aportan una cuota extraordinaria y, si es
necesario un mayor financiamiento para solucionar problemas más graves, solicitan el apoyo de la Municipalidad
(Distrital o Provincial) o de otro organismo de desarrollo que atiende la zona.

PRONAMACHCS, seguirá supervisando periódicamente el uso de las obras, asesorando para el uso eficiente del
riego y capacitación para el mantenimiento. Para los sub proyectos de conservación de suelos, reforestación y apoyo
a la producción, se hará seguimiento y capacitación de refuerzo a los Promotores Comunales.

Asimismo, parte de los costos de las actividades deberán ser financiados por los campesinos ya que estudios de
casos realizados por PRONAMACHCS "El Proyecto Alivio de la Pobreza en Tarma y Urubamba". Carlos
Herrera - PRONAMACHCS, Octubre 1999.

"La intervención del Proyecto Alivio en Cajamarca". Carlos Herrera - PRONAMACHCS, Julio 2000, han
demostrado que existe un potencial de inversión campesina que permitiría cubrir una parte de los requerimientos
financieros para la continuación de actividades.

De otro lado, es necesario que el Banco Mundial realice un estudio de evaluación ex - post del Proyecto (puede ser
al tercer año de su culminación), con la finalidad de analizar la sostenibilidad del mismo y conocer los factores que
pueden haber incidido para que los beneficios del Proyecto hayan perdurado o no en el tiempo.


VII.      Performance del Banco y del Prestatario:

7.1 Banco

7.1.1     Préstamo: El calificativo respecto al desempeño del Banco Mundial, en esta etapa, es satisfactorio.

Para la Identificación del Proyecto el Banco tomó en consideración las prioridades nacionales del Gobierno
Peruano en el sector agricultura. Asimismo la lucha contra la pobreza rural mediante inversiones dirigidas a la
construcción de infraestructura de pequeña escala y la promoción del manejo sustentable de los recursos naturales.

En la etapa de Preparación del Proyecto, el Banco apoyó adecuadamente al Ministerio de Agricultura y
PRONAMACHCS con consultores con suficiente experiencia, conocimientos del sector y la realidad rural del país,
que permitió considerar adecuadamente los aspectos económicos, financieros, sociales y ambientales. Sin embargo,
una limitación fue la poca precisión que se hizo a los indicadores de efectos e impactos del Proyecto. Comentario
similar merece la conducción del Appraisal.

7.1.2     Supervisión: El calificativo respecto al desempeño del Banco Mundial, en esta etapa, es satisfactorio.

Las Misiones de Supervisión se han realizado a intervalos regulares, así como las visitas relativas a la
administración del préstamo. Ambas han alcanzado aportes importantes para el mejor desempeño del Proyecto,
coadyuvando en la identificación temprana de algunos cuellos de botella y deficiencias en la implementación y
ejecución. De igual forma, el procesamiento y aprobación de solicitudes de desembolsos se han dado con
normalidad. La presencia en la Sede del Banco Mundial en Lima de un Gerente del Proyecto, facilito la
comunicación con el PRONAMACHCS, y los Ministerios de Agricultura y de Economía y Finanzas.



                                                        - 38 -

7.1.3     Performance general del Banco:

Se considera satisfactoria, por su eficiente participación en el diseño del proyecto y en la etapa de implementación,
donde la supervisión permitió identificar oportunamente algunas limitaciones y desviaciones que afectaban la
implementación del proyecto, dentro de los cuales se pueden mencionar : i) el incremento hasta US$ 5,000 para
financiamiento de las iniciativas empresariales, ii) el apoyo para el desarrollo de un sistema de monitoreo de las
inversiones rurales, iii) el incremento de la participación del Banco en el financiamiento de las acciones de
capacitación (pasando del 50% al 85%), iv)         el mejoramiento de los controles en el flujo de fondos hacia los
comités campesinos, v) las asistencias brindadas a través de los expertos de la FAO para estudios de evaluación.

No obstante, también se han observado algunas limitaciones tales como los cambios en la posición de Gerente del
Proyecto, que motivaron algunas descoordinaciones en el cumplimiento oportuno de acciones de apoyo solicitadas,
enfoques distintos sobre el rumbo y la performance de la entidad ejecutora. Y en el último tramo de ejecución se
produjeron demoras en la atención de un pedido de recategorización que afectó algunos trabajos de campo, así
como limitadas instrucciones y acompañamiento a la entidad ejecutora para un adecuado y oportuno proceso de
cierre financiero del préstamo.

7.2 Prestatario

7.2.1 Preparación: El calificativo respecto al desempeño del prestatario, en esta etapa, es satisfactorio

El PRONAMACHCS y el Ministerio de Agricultura intervinieron en la preparación del proyecto tomando en
consideración todos los aspectos principales particularmente relevantes como son los técnicos, financieros,
económicos, comerciales, institucionales, medioambientales y sociales, incluyendo los compromisos previstos de las
familias campesinas.

7.2.2     Performance del Gobierno en la implementación: El calificativo respecto al desempeño del
Gobierno, en esta etapa, es satisfactorio.

Las prioridades del gobierno estuvieron centradas y orientadas a la lucha contra la pobreza. Esta prioridad otorgada
por el Gobierno facilitó, en parte, la ejecución del Proyecto en las zonas mas deprimidas del país y que formaban
parte del ámbito de acción del PRONAMACHCS. Sin embargo, en los últimos dos años se presentaron
restricciones financieras.

El entorno político (cambio de Gobierno en dos oportunidades) también influyó en el desarrollo normal del
Proyecto y cuya interferencia en las decisiones operativas se pudo notar sobretodo en los períodos pre -electorales
En dichos períodos el Proyecto, por la influencia del gobierno, priorizo la construcción de infraestructura física en
detrimento de las actividades para el Fortalecimiento Comunal y la organización de los Comités de Gestión de
Microcuenca..

7.2.3     Agencia ejecutora: El calificativo respecto al desempeño de la Agencia Ejecutora, es satisfactorio.

Los cambios de gobierno (primero de transición y luego el nuevo gobierno electo constitucionalmente) también
originaron cambios en los funcionarios del Proyecto, afectando los procesos administrativos y en el manejo técnico
de las actividades (por el tiempo mínimo necesario requerido para involucrarse en la propuesta). Los cambios
frecuentes del personal de campo, sobre todo en sus últimos tres años, afectaron la normal ejecución de las
actividades debido al tiempo que tomó a los nuevos técnicos ganarse la confianza de los campesinos o por el
inadecuado apoyo técnico ofrecido inicialmente.

Respecto al sistema de seguimiento y evaluación, PRONAMACHCS controló permanentemente el progreso de
algunos indicadores claves para el monitoreo del Proyecto. Los reportes se elaboraron con una periodicidad
semestral, cumpliendo así con los requerimientos institucionales internos y externos.

En el tema de evaluación es donde PRONAMACHCS mostró algunas debilidades, entre ellas las siguientes: i) Falta
de indicadores claros para la evaluación de efectos e impactos. Esta situación se arrastró desde el diseño del
Proyecto y fue solucionado por PRONAMACHCS y por el apoyo de los Consultores de la FAO/CP; ii) Ausencia de
acciones de autoevaluación participativa limitó la discusión periódica y sistemática de la estrategia de intervención



                                                         - 39 -

del proyecto. Se bien se desarrollaron y discutieron algunos estudios de casos, las actividades de evaluación han
sido muy "dependientes del trabajo de consultores externos y la institución no ha desarrollado su propia capacidad
para integrar, usar y dar seguimiento al trabajo efectuado por estos consultores" Conclusión general del informe de
la Misión para la elaboración del Informe de Cierre del Proyecto, mayo 2004.. Iii) No fueron suficientes los
materiales de capacitación sobre seguimiento y evaluación, que hubieran contribuido a fortalecer los procesos
desarrollados en el ámbito de acción del Proyecto.

7.2.4     Performance general del prestatario:

El calificativo respecto al desempeño global del Gobierno y la Agencia Ejecutora es satisfactorio. Esta calificación
refleja, a pesar de algunas deficiencias anotadas anteriormente, los esfuerzos desplegados por el Gobierno Peruano
y la Agencia ejecutora por llevar a buen término un proyecto dirigido a mejorar la situación de pobreza de un
importante número de familias campesinas a través del mejoramiento de su base productiva y de un manejo
racional de sus recursos naturales, procurando tener como principal actor al propio campesino, cuyos resultados
han sido ratificados por las evaluaciones llevadas a cabo.

VIII.     Lecciones aprendidas: En general las lecciones que se han podido extraer son las siguientes:

1)        Se ha podido confirmar que para aliviar y erradicar la pobreza en la Sierra, es necesario la recuperación y
conservación y mantenimiento de los recursos naturales.La aplicación de prácticas conservacionistas mejoraron la
economía familiar campesina porque fueron un medio que contribuyó a alcanzar una producción agrícola mayor y
sostenida que aseguró la disponibilidad de alimentos para la familia (seguridad alimentaria) y, generó mayores
recursos económicos para la familia al destinar una parte de esa mejor producción al mercado.

2)        En el diseño de las estrategias de un nuevo proyecto para la zona altoandina, es necesario tomar en
consideración que en dicho espacio la homogeneidad es lo atípico. Algunas Comunidades son de las zonas altas,
medias o bajas, con aptitud ganadera o agrícola, con terrenos más o menos fértiles, con acceso o no a mercados
muy dinámicos, con mayor o menor población analfabeta, con posibilidades o no de realizar obras de riego, etc.

3)        El conocimiento de la población, su tradición y cultura en general, se constituye en una información
valiosa que ayuda a enriquecer la propuesta institucional y a hacerla sostenible. Al respecto, es necesario considerar
y respetar las costumbres y tradiciones de las poblaciones con las cuales se trabaja.

4)        Faltó incorporar el componente pecuario: PRONAMACHCS realizó grandes esfuerzos por mejorar áreas
con pastos naturales e introducir pastos cultivados, sin embargo esta actividad no tuvo su complemento en un
componente pecuario teniendo en consideración el valor e importancia que significan los animales mayores y
menores en el patrimonio de la familia campesina y su incidencia en los ingresos familiares y, las ventajas
potenciales e impactos que pudieran haber surgido con la intervención del Proyecto.

5)        En el caso de las Iniciativas Empresariales, no se trató adecuadamente la aparente contradicción entre
generar actividades rentables y actuar sólo en sectores de extrema pobreza, con demasiadas limitaciones para
generar productos excedentes para transformación o venta. Asimismo, estas actividades tuvieron el error inicial de
ser concebidas para ser conducidas exclusivamente por mujeres, denotando criterios de exclusión de género, que no
tomaba en cuenta la participación familiar en las actividades productivas del campo. Tampoco se exploró la
posibilidad de impulsar o potencializar iniciativas empresariales familiares ya existentes en las zonas de
intervención (familias no necesariamente integrantes de los Comités Conservacionistas) y que con algunos recursos
adicionales pudieron ganar un espacio mayor en el mercado al que estaban articulados o incursionar a nuevos
mercados.

6)        En la implementación del Fondo de Capitalización Comunal ­ FONCAPCO, existieron debilidades
respecto a la oportunidad y suficiencia del fondo en relación a los requerimientos productivos y la orientación
inicial que se dio a estos fondos (a productos de alto riesgo). Asimismo, un elemento adicional que no se abordó en
todo su magnitud fue la contradicción evidente entre la recuperación de suelos (terrazas, andenes, zanjas, etc.) y la
entrega de insumos que constituyen a largo plazo, elementos degradantes de los suelos (pesticidas y fertilizantes).



                                                         - 40 -

Con estas consideraciones, se debe evaluar, en un futuro proyecto, la composición de los insumos de la canasta del
FONCAPCO, propendiendo en forma gradual (cómo se ha venido haciendo recién en los últimos años) el
reemplazo de la utilización de agroquímicos por la adopción de abonos orgánicos como el guano de islas, humus de
lombriz, guano de corral y la elaboración doméstica del compost.

7)       La capacitación a los Promotores Campesinos elegidos es un medio que permite la transferencia de
tecnología de los operadores del proyecto hacia los campesinos. Esta transferencia de conocimiento es importante,
toda vez que los Promotores son de la misma Comunidad. En las organizaciones campesinas donde el proyecto ha
puesto especial énfasis en la formación de promotores campesinos, los resultados económicos han sido más exitosos
y la sostenibilidad futura, una vez concluida la intervención del proyecto, aparece más viable "Evaluación de la
viabilidad económica ­ financiera y la sostenibilidad ambiental y organizacional de una muestra de casos exitosos
de la intervención del Proyecto Manejo de Recursos Naturales para el Alivio de la Pobreza en la Sierra". FAO,
agosto de 2002.

8)       PRONAMACHCS requiere enfocar otras oportunidades importantes para mejorar los ingresos en las
zonas atendidas. En adición a la conservación del suelo y el agua, reforestación y el uso de abonos orgánicos, deben
considerarse mejores prácticas agronómicas y de comercialización, por ejemplo, manejo de plagas, producción de
semillas mejoradas y procesamiento post cosecha, que no estuvieron contempladas en el diseño del Proyecto
Conclusión general de la Misión para el Informe de Cierre del Proyecto. Lima, mayo 2004.

9)       La sostenibilidad del Proyecto está condicionada al grado de involucramiento real de los beneficiarios en
todas las etapas del Proyecto. Si bien el Proyecto ha tratado de enmarcarse dentro de un esquema participativo que
permita a los beneficiarios ser actores de su desarrollo, impulsando la participación activa en las diferentes etapas
del proceso de intervención institucional, es necesario avanzar hacia un esquema mucho más audaz y que permita
un control mucho más directo de algunos de los procesos que se dan durante la ejecución, como el control directo
de las cuentas bancarias, las decisiones para la contratación de su asistencia técnica (extensionistas) y de quienes se
encargaran de la construcción de las obras rurales (de riego y almacenes), el financiamiento de parte del costo de
las obras y herramientas, las evaluaciones de los resultados logrados, etc. Dicho cambio contribuirá a desarrollar las
capacidades de la población intervenida y la sostenibilidad del Proyecto.

10)      Cuando la participación campesina se fundamenta en las costumbres ancestrales de trabajo comunitario
como el Ayni y Minka, se obtienen mayores logros para mejorar el capital social, el capital reproducido y para
conservar al capital natural de la Comunidad "Evaluación de la viabilidad económica ­ financiera y la
sostenibilidad ambiental y organizacional de una muestra de casos exitosos de la intervención del Proyecto Manejo
de Recursos Naturales para el Alivio de la Pobreza en la Sierra". FAO, agosto de 2002.

11)      En futuros proyectos, es necesario iniciar la intervención en una organización campesina, utilizando el
Diagnóstico Global Participativo (DGP) y Plan de Acción Comunal, que son dos de las herramientas metodológicas
importantes de la Planificación Participativa del PRONAMACHCS (PCUBO). De esta manera se garantizaría que
la ejecución de las actividades durante la vigencia del Proyecto, obedece a las demandas reales de los campesinos.

12)      A través del estudio de las familias beneficiarias, que formó parte de la Evaluación Final del Proyecto
Estudio de "Evaluación Final del Proyecto Manejo de Recursos Naturales para el Alivio de la Pobreza en la Sierra",
realizado por la Escuela de Administración de Negocios para Graduados ­ ESAN, Junio 2004. , se observó que
las familias jóvenes han sido las principales animadoras del Proyecto y se transforman paulatinamente en las
agentes de la innovación tecnológica y asimilación de la cultura de gestión integral de las microcuencas.

13)      Asimismo, el apoyo a las actividades productivas debe reforzarse luego del segundo o tercer año del
Proyecto. Se asume que en los años iniciales se han realizado las otras actividades como el acondicionamiento de
las áreas agrícolas, infraestructura productiva, agroforestería, etc. De esta manera se lograrían mayores impactos en
la productividad y se racionalizarían los recursos financieros disponibles.

14)      La estrategia de PRONAMACHCS de comprometer a los Gobiernos Municipales en el proyecto, ha
permitido, en muchos casos, convenios sustanciales con dotación de recursos y personal técnico (Extensionistas) a


                                                         - 41 -

favor de las organizaciones campesinas y en apoyo de las actividades programadas del Proyecto.

15)      Una de las debilidades mostradas por PRONAMACHCS, durante el período de ejecución del Proyecto, fue
los ceses y rotaciones del personal asignado a la ejecución y administración del Proyecto, lo que ocasionó la pérdida
de las experiencias ganadas por los ex operadores del Proyecto en los aspectos técnicos, su relación con los
beneficiarios En el caso de los Profesionales y Técnicos Extensionistas de las Agencias Zonales, por ejemplo, tomó
tiempo ganarse nuevamente la confianza de los campesinos y familiarizarse con las potencialidades y limitaciones
de la zona. , manejo de los procedimientos administrativos de la institución, etc. Para superar esta debilidad se tuvo
la necesidad de implementar nuevos programas de capacitación.

Como lección aprendida se puede sostener que para facilitar la ejecución de un proyecto de este tipo, se requiere un
alto grado de estabilidad del personal de la entidad ejecutora, sin perder de vista la adecuada selección en función a
sus calificaciones profesionales y aptitudes para ejercer las funciones que se les encomienda, además de una
permanente capacitación que incluya la identificación con el Proyecto, sus objetivos, componentes y aspectos
referidos a su implementación.

16)      El enfoque de trabajo debe ser a nivel de cuenca y microcuenca, donde la unidad de planificación sea la
microcuenca, las que deben ser correcta y técnicamente delimitadas, para definir coherentemente el espacio de
intervención.

17)      Todo proceso de gestión de cuencas y microcuencas, debe basarse en actividades permanentes de
sensibilización en los siguientes niveles: al personal del PRONAMACHCS, para que comprendan el rol de
facilitadores del proceso; a los actores principales que son las familias campesinas, para que sean conscientes de sus
responsabilidades y obligaciones en el proceso; y a las instituciones públicas y privadas, para evitar competencias e
interferencias y unir esfuerzos de modo que los escasos recursos de estas (humanos y financieros), sean utilizados
de manera complementaria y del mejor modo posible.




                                                         - 42 -

- 43 -

