Report No. PIC2488
Project Name              Peru-Sierra-Natural Resources Management and...
Poverty Alleviation Project
Region                    Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                    Natural Resources Management
Project ID                PEPA42442
Borrower                  Republic of Peru
Executing Agency          PRONAMACHCS  Proyecto Nacional de Manejo de
Cuencas Ing. Carlos Torres Martinez
Jr. Cahuide No 805, 6to piso
Lima 11, Peru
Tel. 51 - 1 - 4713164
Fax 51 - 1 - 4713182
Date PID Prepared         January 6, 1997
Board Date                January 16, 1997
1.   Country and Sector Background.   Since 1991, the Government of Peru
has carried out far-reaching economy-wide reforms, oriented towards
macroeconomic stability, trade liberalization, privatization and
deregulation. The main thrust of the Government's strategy towards
agriculture has been to: (i) eliminate major distortions in
agricultural markets by liberalizing trade and prices; (ii) improve land
tenure security; (iii) virtually eliminate direct subsidies and
interventions in input markets; and (iv) help the disadvantaged amongst
the rural population by controlling violence and implementing poverty
targeted programs. As a result, agricultural growth is recovering and
security in rural areas has greatly improved. Nevertheless, poverty
remains widespread, private sector investment in agriculture remains
low, and agricultural technology is below overall Latin American
standards. The Government is accelerating the implementation of land
and water rights legislation, focusing increasingly on poverty
alleviation programs targeted towards the poorest regions, and
continuing to redefine the role of the State so as to promote enhanced
private sector development.
2.   Good natural resources management is a pre-requisite for land
productivity increases and poverty alleviation in the Sierra. Loss of
erosion-prone fertile top soils can only be prevented by investments in
agroforestry, terrace structures, erosion barriers and appropriate
agronomic practices. Adequate water management also increases the
efficiency of irrigation, crop yields and improves sanitary conditions.
In addition, good natural resources management in the Sierra decreases
sediment build-up in the coastal irrigation schemes. The recent civil
war has disrupted the maintenance of existing soil conservation and
water management structures which need urgent rehabilitation. The
project builds upon the Government's past experience of supporting soil
conservation in the Sierra but would involve the beneficiaries in the
design and implementation of the investments and strengthen their
organizations.



3.   Project Objectives.   The general project objective is to help
alleviate the poverty of the rural Sierra people by promoting a
productive and sustainable use of their natural resources in a
participatory manner. Specific project objectives are to assist about
75,000 poor families in 1 micro-catchments of the Sierra to: (i) manage
their natural resources sustainably through soil conservation and
reforestation; (ii) increase rural productivity through irrigation and
improved agricultural practices; and (iii) strengthen their rural
organizations so that they can become autonomous and sustainable
entities.
4.   Project Description.   The target population would be 1,0 of the
poorest communities in seven administrative departments of the Sierra,
living within micro-catchments with potential for production improvement
through soil conservation and rural productive infrastructure. The
project would finance: (i) demand-driven productive rural investments
in the Sierra (US$77.4 million) on a grant basis matched by community
labor; (ii) the participatory process by which rural investments are
identified and formulated (US$0.5 million); (iii) institutional
strengthening of rural communities (US$3.6 million); and (iv) goods,
consulting services and training for PRONAMACHCS assisting the
communities to carry out the above (US$11.7 million). The project would
be implemented over a period of six years.
5.   The geographical unit for project activities is the micro-
catchment, with an average size of 10,000 ha. The micro-catchment
allows for an integrated natural resources management. The Ministry of
Agriculture would study the micro-catchments' productive potential. In
micro-catchments with productive potential, the community would identify
rural investments through participative planning. Later on,
participative planning would also take place for the whole micro-
catchment. Participative planning would involve communities,
municipalities and other representative organizations. The type of
rural investments financed in a particular micro-catchment would be
based on technical, economic and environmental criteria. Investments
would include: (i) soil conservation activities (construction of
terraces, water infiltration furrows, live barriers); (ii) small-scale
irrigation; (iii) reforestation and agroforestry; (iv) improvement of
soil conserving agronomic practices; and (v) construction of community
seed warehouses.
6.   The rural community strengthening component would finance community
training in participatory planning and management of community
investment accounts and agricultural input stocks. It would also
finance a program to support small-scale economic activities of women to
increase their revenues. Women play an important role in the economy of
the Sierra, as many men have to leave the area in the off-season to look
for work in the cities. PRONAMACHCS would help communities prepare and
implement the rural investments, and finance the investment costs
(contractors, materials, inputs) as a grant to communities. The
communities would implement the rural investments with their own labor,
which would not be financed. The grant element is justified because of
the project's poverty alleviation objective and positive environmental
externalities, and would be a least-cost solution to financing such
rural investments.
-2-



7.   Project Financing.   The overall project cost is estimated at
US$93.2 million in a period of six years. The project would be financed
by a Bank loan of US$51 million (55 percent), US$14.3 million (15
percent) by Government, and US$27.9 million (30 percent) by project
beneficiaries (in the form of labor).
8.        Project Implementation.   PRONAMACHCS, the agency within the
Ministry of Agriculture which has been for 15 years in charge of natural
resources management activities, would implement the project. As much
as possible, PRONAMACHCS would involve NGOs and the private sector.
PRONAMACHCS and FONCODES have signed a cooperation agreement to
complement each other's activities and apply a consistent approach. An
internal management information system and monitoring and evaluation
unit would be established under the project.
9.   Project Sustainability.   The sustainability of the rural
investments financed under the project would be guaranteed by community
involvement in investment design and implementation and the (average) 30
percent contribution in unpaid community labor. This would provide
community ownership and ensure that investments are properly maintained
and operated as part of the agricultural work calendar. Moreover, the
project would train the communities to manage their investment accounts
and community stocks of inputs and tools. Overall, the project would
support the strengthening of an existing successful institution
(PRONAMACHCS). Additionally, extension services would enhance community
capacity to manage natural resources on an ongoing basis.
10. Lessons from Experience. Natural resource management experience in
Peru shows the importance of: (i) improved agronomic practices to
enhance profitability of soil conservation; (ii) beneficiary
participation in sub-project design and implementation; and (iii) the
negative effect of salary payments to community labor creating
disincentives for project maintenance. The FONCODES experience in
demand-driven projects shows the importance of: (i) transparent and
well-defined sub-project eligibility and evaluation criteria to speed up
implementation; (ii) targeting mechanisms to reach the poor;
(iii) promotional activities to stimulate a demand-driven approach among
the poorer communities; and (iv) the degree of community participation,
including women and indigenous groups, and decentralized project
implementation. These lessons have been incorporated into the project
design by expanding PRONAMACHCS' participative decision-making approach,
using a detailed poverty map, introducing a project operational manual
and strengthening the decentralized local offices and the extension
services of PRONAMACHCS.
11. Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy for Peru discussed by the Board on November 22, 1994, states
that poverty reduction is the central objective of the Bank's
involvement in this country. This would be achieved through both
private sector-led and environmentally sustainable growth and
investments in public goods and services directly benefiting the poor.
The proposed project is fully consistent with this country's assistance
strategy. It would finance investments in small-scale infrastructure
and promote sustainable natural resource management practices in the
poorest areas of the country. Direct community implementation is also
-3 -



consistent with the objective of reducing the role of the State in
productive activities. Finally, technical assistance and support would
enhance institution building capacity.
12. Environmental Aspects. The project would generally have long-term
beneficial environmental effects on water and soils at the micro-
catchment level, including soil and water conservation, reduced
sedimentation in streams and improvements in water quality. The project
would also reduce sedimentation to the coastal river basins, thereby
reducing effects of fertilizers, pesticides, and herbicides in
downstream areas. Integration of environmental considerations into
construction and operation of small irrigation projects and other off-
farm activities would mitigate localized negative environmental impact.
The environmental category is B.
13. Project Benefits. The project would target areas in which the
rural poor can be well defined in terms of geography (above 2,000 m. sea
level) and language. About 75,000 families in 1 micro-catchments in
seven administrative departments would benefit from the project.
Expected benefits of the project would be: (a) increasing the coverage,
effectiveness and sustainability of small-scale rural investments in the
Sierra; (b) increasing on- and off-farm incomes; and (c) reducing the
resource degradation in risk-prone areas, through use of appropriate
technologies to intensify land use in sustainable ways. The measured
economic internal rate of return is estimated at 12 percent.
14. Participatory Approach. During preparation a beneficiary
assessment was carried out in 144 communities. The project would apply
a systematic participatory approach involving communities directly in
sub-project design and implementation. For design, the community
identifies its own promoter working with PRONAMACHCS' technical agents
in preparing sub-projects. Many of these agents come from the same
beneficiary communities and speak the local language. For
implementation, the promoter supervises the sub-project, assisted by
PRONAMACHCS. The community is responsible for either contributing their
own labor to implement the project, or, if they contract a specialized
firm to do the work, supervising the contractor. This participatory
approach would be improved through continuous training by non-
governmental organizations providing technical assistance to the
communities.
15. Poverty Category. The project meets the criteria for a Program of
Targeted Interventions. The main objective of the project is to
increase rural household incomes and alleviate poverty through
sustainable natural resources management, irrigation and forestry. The
micro-catchments selected under the project are situated in the very
poor higher Sierra areas where possibilities for productive development
without outside assistance are rather scarce. Project activities would
target these poor communities which have sufficient natural resources to
increase their income level through enhanced natural resources
management.
16. Program Objective Category. The project falls under three
categories: Poverty Alleviation, Environment, and Infrastructure
Development. Its primary objective is to reduce poverty in the Sierra.
- 4 -



The integrated natural resource management approach would result in
environmental benefits in the project area and in the downstream coastal
areas. The project would re-orient infrastructure development towards
low-income populations.
17. Risks. The first risk is that communities insufficiently
participate. This can be caused by PRONAMACHCS staff imposing on
communities to carry out non-economic rural investments or by a lack of
free labor in the communities. This risk would be mitigated by the
requirement to establish participative planning agreements with the
communities before disbursement of project proceeds, courses in
participative planning and a ceiling to the total investment amount per
family. This would reduce incentives to choose non-economic activities
and take on more activities than the community can carry out. The
monitoring system would provide data on sub-project implementation,
including community labor participation. The second risk is that soil
conservation works would not be followed by improved agronomic
practices. This would reduce the economic return of the project. This
risk would be mitigated by providing the communities with extension
services and agricultural inputs on a grant basis for the first year.
The community would also receive training in managing an input supply
revolving system. The third risk would be a lack of counterpart funds.
In the past shortages of funds have hampered PRONAMACHCS' investment
activities but never its operation. The additional project-related
expenditures would be included in the Government's annual budget. This
is already the case for the 1997 project-related expenditures. The risk
of shortages of counterpart funds would be further mitigated through an
on-going dialogue between the Bank and the Ministry of Economy and
Finance on the adequate provision of counterpart funds to Bank-financed
projects.
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending January 10, 1997.
- 5 -



