Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4130-PE
Loan Agreement
(Sierra - Natural Resources Management
and Poverty Alleviation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 11, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4130-PE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 11, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF PERU (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Single Currency Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, (the 
Page  2
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Annual Investment Program” means each of the annual investment programs 
prepared and furnished by the Borrower to the Bank, pursuant to paragraph 1 (b) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and approved by the Bank;
(b)
“Annual Rural Community Plan” means an annual plan (plan agrario anual 
comunal), prepared by an Eligible Rural Organization, containing proposed Subprojects 
to be carried out by the respective Eligible Rural Organization in the then following 
year;
(c)
“Comunidad Campesina” means public interest organizations with legal 
personality and regulated by the Borrower’s Law No. 24656, dated March 30, 1987 and 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette, El Peruano, dated April 14, 1987 and 
“Comunidad Campesina” means any of such public interest organizations; 
(d)
“Departamentos” means one of the political subdivisions of the Borrower’s 
territory;
(e)
“Eligible Microcatchments” means Selected Microcatchments (as hereinafter 
defined) with productive development potential as determined in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual;
(f)
“Eligible Rural Organization” means a Rural Organization which meets, to 
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank, the eligibility criteria set forth in 
the Operational Manual for participating in the Project;
(g)
“Monitoring Indicators" means the indicators, satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Bank, for purposes of measuring progress in the implementation of the 
Project and achievement of its objectives as such indicators are included in the 
letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith;
(h)
"Operational Manual" means the operational manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, setting forth the criteria, rules and procedures for the implementation of the 
Project, including the Project institutional set-up, selection and eligibility 
criteria for microcatchments, procedures for generating, selecting and approving 
Subprojects, the eligibility criteria for Subprojects, beneficiary contributions for 
Subprojects, environmental rules, procurement procedures and model bidding documents, 
sample letters of invitation and procedures for evaluation of consulting services, 
terms of reference of auditors, flow of Project funds and Project monitoring and 
evaluation as such manual may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Borrower and the Bank;
(i)
“Participation Agreement” means the agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, 
to be entered into between the Borrower, through PRONAMACHCS, and an Eligible Rural 
Organization providing for the participation of such Eligible Rural Organization in 
the Project and general undertakings of the parties, including the preparation of the 
Annual Rural Community Plans, as set forth in the Operational Manual;
(j)
 “Project Area” means the area included under the existing Departmentos 
of Cajamarca, Huanuco, Ancash, Huancavélica, Ayacucho, Junín and Apurimac and any 
other additional or substitute area as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;
(k)
“PRONAMACHCS” means the Borrower’s Proyecto Nacional de Manejo de Cuencas 
Hidrográficas y Conservación de Suelos, a unit within the Ministry of Agriculture;
(l)
“Rural Associations” means associations formed by, at least, twenty 
farmers’  family units in Eligible Microcatchments and where no Comunidad Campesina 
exists; 
(m)
“Rural Organizations” means either Comunidades Campesinas, or Rural 
Associations; and “Rural Organization” means any of such organizations;
Page  3
(n)
“Selected Microcatchments” means microcatchments in the Project Area 
which: (i) have an area of one thousand hectares or more; (ii) are located two 
thousand meters above sea  level; and (iii) have population living in extreme poverty 
pursuant to the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual;
(o)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(p)
“Subproject” means an investment project under Part B of the Project, 
which is  eligible for financing under the Project in accordance with the provisions 
of the Operational Manual; and 
(q)
“Subproject Agreement” means the agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, to 
be entered into between the Borrower, through PRONAMACHCS, and an Eligible Rural 
Organization providing for the undertakings of the respective parties in connection 
with a Subproject or Subprojects.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to fifty 
one million dollars ($51,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three\1efourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
Page  4
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable March 15 and September 
15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through PRONAMACHCS and with the participation of the Eligible Rural 
Organizations, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with the 
Operational Manual, the Annual Investment Program and appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering, agricultural and environmental practices, and shall provide or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed,  the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 
to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower, through PRONAMACHCS, shall enter into Participation 
Agreements and Subproject Agreements with each Eligible Rural Organization.
(d)
The Borrower shall duly perform all of its obligations and exercise all 
of its rights under each Participation Agreement and Subproject Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan. Except as otherwise agreed by the Bank, the Borrower shall not 
amend, abrogate, waive, assign or fail to enforce such agreements or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
Page  5
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and separate accounts referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account was made;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has adopted the Operational Manual.
Section 5.02. The date July 11, 1997 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  6
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Jirón Junín 319
Lima 1
Peru
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) and
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Lima, Peru, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By /s/ Jorge Camet Dickmann
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Fred Levy
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
 Expressed in
   to be
Category
    Dollars
  Financed
(1)
Agricultural Inputs 
   9,000,000
 
90% 
Page  7
under Subprojects
(2)
Works and Goods
  32,000,000
 
90% 
(other than Agricul-
tural Inputs) under
Subprojects 
(3)
Goods under Parts 
   1,300,000
85% 
A and D of the Project 
(4)
Consulting Services
   1,300,000 
100% 
(5)
Training
   3,000,000
50% 
(6)
Operating Costs
   1,600,000
60% of 
expenditures
incurred until
December 31,
1999; and 40%
thereafter
(7)
Unallocated
   2,800,000
   _________
TOTAL
  51,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “training” means expenditures in connection with rental of 
training facilities, travel for trainees, trainer’s fees, per diem for trainees and 
training materials;
(b)
the term “operating costs” means expenditures, in connection with Project 
implementation and supervision, related to travel, office rental, office materials and 
supplies, utility services, office and equipment maintenance, field materials and per 
diems; and
(c)
the term “Agricultural inputs” means seeds, fertilizers and chemicals 
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
3.
 Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000, 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1996; 
(b) payments made for expenditures in respect of Project activities in connection with 
an Eligible Rural Organization unless the respective Participation Agreement and 
Subproject Agreement shall have been executed by the respective parties thereto; and 
(c) expenditures under any Subproject costing more than $100,000 equivalent.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods costing 
$200,000 equivalent or less; (b) Subprojects; (c) contracts for services provided by 
consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (d) contracts for services 
provided by individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (e) 
Categories (5) and (6) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in alleviating 
poverty in the Project Area through the productive and sustainable use of natural 
resources in a participatory manner. Specific objectives are to assist poor people in 
the Project Area in: (a) improving the sustainable management of natural resources 
through soil conservation measures and reforestation at the micro-catchment level; (b) 
increasing rural production and productivity through the introduction of irrigation 
Page  8
and improved agricultural practices; and (c) strengthening their rural associations.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Participatory Identification and Formulation of Subprojects
1.
(a)
Carrying out of studies to evaluate the development potential of the 
Selected Microcatchments; and (b) acquisition and utilization of satellite imagery and 
computer equipment and software in connection with the Selected Micro-catchments.
2.
Carrying out of a program of participatory planning for Subprojects in the 
Eligible Microcatchments.
Part B:
Subprojects
Carrying out of investment projects in the areas of soil conservation, 
small-scale irrigation, reforestation and agroforestry, improved rural production 
technology and post-harvest infrastructure.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening of Rural Organizations
1.
Carrying out of a program to promote community participation through: (a) annual 
promotion campaigns consisting of: (i) the production and distribution of bilingual 
pamphlets on participatory planning and community strengthening; and (ii) radio 
broadcasts to promote participation; and (b) execution of courses in participatory 
planning at the micro-catchment level.
2.
Carrying out of a program to establish about 50 natural resources management 
committees at the micro-catchment level including the provision of seminars, annual 
workshops and courses in micro-catchment natural resources management.
3.
Carrying out of a training program on financial management of revolving stock of 
agricultural inputs and rural investment accounts for about 1,250 Rural Organizations.
4.
Carrying out of a training program comprising courses in small enterprise 
management for approximately 625 Rural Organizations.
5.
Carrying out of a program of small productive projects for the development of 
rural women. 
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening of PRONAMACHCS
1.
Design and operation of a Project management information system and a Project 
monitoring system.
2.
Carrying out of a training program consisting of: (a) pre-service training for 
PRONAMACHCS’ technical staff in topics related to the Project and its implementation; 
(b) national and regional workshops in areas of soil conservation, irrigation and 
forestry; (c) field visits for PRONAMACHCS’ professionals and extension specialists 
involved in the Project; and (d) study tours for PRONAMACHCS’ professionals in areas 
of national resources management.
3.
Strengthening of PRONAMACHCS’ departmental and branch offices through (a) the 
acquisition and utilization of about 20 vehicles, 200 motorcycles and 20 sets of 
office equipment for 20 branch offices; (b) the recruitment of about 100 extension 
specialists for 20 branch offices; (c) the acquisition and utilization of about 7 sets 
of audiovisual and data processing equipment at the departmental level; (d) the 
recruitment of seven promoters at the departmental level; (e) establishment and 
operation of a monitoring and evaluation unit at the central level; (f) the 
recruitment of two incremental staff at the central level; and (g) technical 
assistance to monitor and evaluate the impact of the Project. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
Page  9
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due 
(expressed in dollars)*
September 15, 2001
1,325,000.000
March 15, 2002
1,365,000.000
September 15, 2002
1,405,000.000
March 15, 2003
1,445,000.000
September 15, 2003
1,490,000.000
March 15, 2004
1,535,000.000
September 15, 2004
1,580,000.000
March 15, 2005
1,625,000.000
September 15, 2005
1,675,000.000
March 15, 2006
1,725,000.000
September 15, 2006
1,780,000.000
March 15, 2007
1,830,000.000
September 15, 2007
1,885,000.000
March 15, 2008
1,945,000.000
September 15, 2008
2,000,000.000
March 15, 2009
2,060,000.000
September 15, 2009
2,125,000.000
March 15, 2010
2,185,000.000
September 15, 2010
2,250,000.000
March 15, 2011
2,320,000.000
September 15, 2011
2,390,000.000
March 15, 2012
2,460,000.000
September 15, 2012
2,535,000.000
March 15, 2013
2,610,000.000
September 15, 2013
2,690,000.000
March 15, 2014
2,765,000.000
_____________
TOTAL
      51,000,000.000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts  
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Page  10
(a)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more each.
(c)
Preference for domestically-manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C: 
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods, other than vehicles and informatic equipment, estimated to cost 
$200,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$6,800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Standard bidding documents, acceptable to the Bank, shall be utilized in 
the procurement of goods in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 
of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods under Subprojects estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $34,100,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
International Shopping
Informatic equipment (computers, peripheral equipment and computer software) 
estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not  to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines including the requirement that suppliers 
shall have established service and maintenance facilities in Peru.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response 
to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
Page  11
With respect to: (a) each contract for vehicles; (b) first two contracts for 
other goods estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $100,000; and (c) each 
contract for other goods estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $200,000, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. 
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $ 100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $ 50,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank:
(a)
not later than February 28 and August 31 of each year of Project 
execution, semestral progress reports on the Project, of such scope and detail as the 
Bank may reasonably request, including, inter alia: (i) information on the progress 
achieved during the then previous semester in the implementation and in the 
achievement of the objectives of the Project based, inter alia, on the Monitoring 
Indicators; (ii) an assessment of the problems and issues derived from the 
implementation of the Project; (iii) updated implementation and disbursement schedules 
for the following semester; (iv) status of compliance by the Borrower with its 
obligations under this Agreement; (v) status of compliance by the Eligible Rural 
Organizations with their obligations under the respective Participation and Subproject 
Agreements; and (vi) if the case may be, a plan of actions detailing the adjustments 
and remedial action to be taken for the compliance with such obligations in (iv) and 
(v) above;
(b)
for its review and approval, not later than  October 31 of each year of 
Project execution, a proposed annual investment program providing for the activities, 
implementation schedule and proposed budget in respect of each Part of the Project 
during the upcoming year.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
during  November of each year, starting in 1997, hold annual reviews with 
the Bank, such reviews to be based on the reports referred to in paragraph 1 (a) above 
and to focus, inter alia, on: (i) progress in the execution and in the achievement of 
the objectives of the Project based on, among other factors, the Monitoring 
Page  12
Indicators; (ii) experience with the procedures set forth in the Operational Manual; 
(iii) the proposed annual investment program for the Project in the upcoming year; and 
(iv) any proposed changes in the Project design and implementation that may be 
necessary; 
(b)
not later than thirty months after the Effective Date, hold a mid-term 
review with the Bank to focus on the following items in addition to those mentioned in 
subparagraph (a) above: (i) the needs and merits of financing artesanal agricultural 
processing activities under Part B of the Project; (ii) the impact of the improved 
technology activities in the microcatchments; (iii) eligibility criteria and 
beneficiary contributions set forth in the Operational Manual; and (iv) the 
development impact of the Project;
(c)
if, as a result of any of the above reviews, the Bank shall have 
reasonably determined that the progress in the execution of the Project or in the 
attainment of the objectives of the Project is not satisfactory, promptly take or 
cause to be taken, without limitation or restriction to any of the Bank's rights under 
this Agreement, all such action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary for 
the efficient execution of the Project or for the attainment of its objectives.
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain PRONAMACHCS with an organizational structure, 
functions, authority and staffing satisfactory to the Bank; (b) without limitation or 
restriction to the above paragraph (a) employ, not later than  March 31, 1997, and 
maintain thereafter: (i) a specialist in promotion and organization of rural 
communities in each of PRONAMACHCS departments; and (ii) a specialist in Project 
monitoring and a specialist in disbursement procedures in PRONAMACHCS; all with 
qualifications and experience and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
4.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
carry out a study, not later than March 31, 1997 and under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, to analyze and evaluate Peruvian legislation that 
affects indigenous peoples’ rights at both national and local level, including, inter 
alia, natural resource use and land use;
(b)
promptly thereafter, exchange views with the Bank on the findings and 
recommendations of the above study;
(c)
not later than June 30, 1997, prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan of 
action, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, to implement the recommendations of 
the above study in connection with the Project; and
(d)
implement the above action plan in accordance with its terms.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount of $3,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of 
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed $5,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
Page  13
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Page  14
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
 If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund 
to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
