                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR000051




             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  ( IBRD-43030 )


                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$164 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                           PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                     FOR AN

             EAST CHINA (JIANGSU) POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT


                                September 28, 2006




Energy and Mining Sector
Infrastructure Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       ( Exchange Rate Effective 03/31/2006 )
                             Currency Unit = Yuan
                                  Yuan 1.00 = US$ 0.125
                                  US$ 1.00 = Yuan 8

                                       Fiscal Year
                                January 1 - December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
DO       Development Objective
EASES    East Asia Social and Environmental Sector Unit

ECEPGC   East China Electric Power Group Corporation (later renamed the East China Grid
         Company Ltd (ECGC))
ECGC     East China Grid Company
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
FMIS     Financial Management Information System
GOC      Government of China
GWh      Gigawatt-hour
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IERR     Internal economic rate of return
ILI      Intensive Learning ICR
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Report
JPEPC    Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company
M&E      Monitoring and evaluation
MVA      Megavolt-Ampere
MW       Megawatt
O&M      Operation and maintenance
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
QAE      Quality at Entry
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
QSA      Quality of Supervision
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
SIL      Specific Investment Loan
T&D      Transmission and Distribution
TA       Technical assistance
TF       Trust Fund
TWh      Terawatt hour
cm       Centimeter
ha       Hectare
kV       Kilovolt
kW       Kilowatt
km       Kilometer
mu       A traditional unit of land area in China approx. equal to 1/15 hectare or 667 square meters
s/s      Substation
                             Vice President: James W. Adams
                          Country Director: David R. Dollar
                            Sector Manager: Junhui Wu
                       Project Team Leader: Yuling Zhou

                                                         China
                       East China (Jiangsu) Power Transmission


                                                   CONTENTS

1.  Basic Information....................................................................................................... 1

2.  Key Dates................................................................................................................... 1

3.  Ratings Summary....................................................................................................... 1

4.  Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... 2

5.  Bank Staff .................................................................................................................. 2

6.  Project Context, Development Objectives and Design.............................................. 2

7.  Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................. 6

8.  Assessment of Outcomes......................................................................................... 12

9.  Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................ 17

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................... 17

11. Lessons Learned....................................................................................................... 21

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.......... 22


Annex 1.   Results Framework Analysis ....................................................................... 23

Annex 2.   Restructuring (if any)................................................................................... 27

Annex 3.   Project Costs and Financing......................................................................... 28

Annex 4.   Outputs by Component ................................................................................ 30

Annex 5.   Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................ 34

Annex 6.   Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........... 35

Annex 7.   Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................ 37

Annex 8.   Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)............................................................. 38

Annex 9.   Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any) .................................... 39

Annex 10.  Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR.................... 40

Annex 11.  Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................... 44

Annex 12.  List of Supporting Documents..................................................................... 45

Annex 13.  Additional Annexes ..................................................................................... 46

1. Basic Information
Country:             China        Project Name:         East China (Jiangsu) Power Transmission
Project ID:          P051736      L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-43030
ICR Date:            09/28/2006   ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument: SIL           Borrower:             GOC
Original Total
                     USD 250.0M   Disbursed Amount:     USD 151.1M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: East China Grid Corporation Ltd.
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

      Process               Date            Process         Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:     06/23/1997        Effectiveness:      07/29/1999         07/29/1999
Appraisal:          01/15/1998        Restructuring(s):
Approval:           03/26/1998        Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:           09/30/2004          03/31/2006


3. Ratings Summary

3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
  Implementation Performance      Indicators        QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
                                 No            Quality at Entry (QEA):           None
time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time
                                 No            Quality of Supervision (QSA):     None
(Yes/No):
DO rating before Closing/Inactive
                                 Satisfactory
status:




                                           1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sub-national government administration                                     3
Information technology                                                     2                  2
Power                                                                     95                 98
                                                            Original Priority   Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization       Secondary          Secondary
Regional integration                                        Primary            Primary
Other urban development                                     Secondary          Secondary
Pollution management and environmental health               Primary            Primary


5. Bank Staff
                 Positions                           At ICR                  At Approval
Vice President:                            James W. Adams            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:                          David R. Dollar           Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:                            Junhui Wu                 Yoshihiko Sumi
Project Team Leader:                       Yuling Zhou               Noureddine Berrah
ICR Team Leader:                           Noureddine Berrah
ICR Primary Author:                        Ivy H. Cheng


6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)


6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


Despite the progress achieved during the 1980s and early 1990s, China's power sector was
still struggling in the mid-1980s to meet the fast-growing demand, especially in East
China. The nation's power sector was still facing inadequate financing of power
infrastructure, transmission bottlenecks, inadequate wholesale electricity and transmission
pricing systems, and unclear corporate relationships between power sector entities. The
sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project was to
remove infrastructure constraints, ensuring environmentally and socially sustainable
economic development, and to transform state-owned enterprises into modern corporate
entities. Bank involvement was critical to address those issues adequately based on
successful international experiences.




                                               2

6.2   Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The project objective, as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), was to
alleviate critical bottlenecks in the power transmission infrastructure and increase
electricity trade on a commercial basis in East China. The objective was to be achieved
through:    (a) development of a reliable 500 kV transmission network to facilitate
optimum location of state-of-the-art generating capacity and transfer of energy to load
centers in a cost-effective way; (b) transformation of the East China Electric Power
Group Corporation (ECEPGC) into a modern corporate entity; and (c) implementation of
a regional power market for power exchange and trade.

Selected key indicators to monitor the project impacts included a reduction in value of
lost production because of power rationing, a reduction in unused generation capacity
because of transmission bottlenecks, a strengthening of the 500 kV transmission network,
improvements in transmission reliability, timely development of a power market and
capacity building of network planning (Annex 1 (a)).

In 2002 ECEPGC lost its autonomous legal status and became a regional department of
the State Power Grid Company. Two years later, it was spun off and became the East
China Grid Company (ECGC), a new legal entity entrusted with the assets of the former
ECEPGC.       As such, ECGC became the successor to ECEPGC, including all of
ECEPGC's project-related obligations and all assets financed under the project. The
Loan Agreement was amended and a new Project Agreement with ECGC, the new
implementing agency, was signed. To avoid confusion, the latter's name and acronym
(ECGC) are used from para. 6.3 onwards.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving
authority), and reasons/justification

The project objective was not revised. The project objective remained appropriate
despite the important changes that affected China's power sector in the early 2000s. The
development of a reliable 500 kV transmission system in Jiangsu Province and
increased power    trade   on   a   commercial     basis   with neighboring    provinces
remained critical to the establishment of a competitive power market in East China to
meet the more stringent requirements of the reform plan issued by the government in
March 2002. Substantial cost savings allowed ECGC to cancel part of the loan and use
the remainder to increase the scope of the physical component. The added component
was fully within the scope of the original project objective.

The key indicators were not revised during project implementation.




                                           3

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

The project primarily benefited power consumers in Jiangsu Province, but also all power
consumers in East China. ECGC benefited greatly from the technical assistance (TA)
and training components. Finally, power generation companies in the region, including
some partially privately owned independent power generators benefited from the
reinforcement of the 500 kV transmission system which allowed them better access to
their clients.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project originally included a physical component to alleviate transmission
bottlenecks and TA and capacity building components to improve ECGC's management
and further electricity trade in the region: (a) supply and construction of 993 km of 500
kV transmission lines, (b) supply and construction of five new 500 kV substations and
extensions, (c) reinforcement of the Nanjing urban transmission systems, (d) consulting
services for engineering and construction management, (e) consulting services for the
detailed design and implementation of the power market in East China, (f) TA for
improved accounting and financial management systems, and (g) management
development and training.

6.6 Revised Components

In 2002 a new component was added. It consisted of two new 500 kV/220 kV
substations and extension of two existing 500 kV/220 kV substations, with a total
transmission capacity of 2,500 megavolt-ampere (MVA). The added component cost
amounted to US$31.1 million and was financed by part of the savings after completion of
the original components. The added component was directly linked to the original
development objective and was needed to further reinforce the system to meet the higher-
than-expected increase in power demand in Jiangsu Province, especially in fast-growing
cities such as Suzhou. At appraisal, the project focused almost entirely on the
reinforcement of Jiangsu Province's transmission system. The new component and other
additional investments financed by ECGC and the Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power
Company (JPEPC) reinforced the interconnection with Anhui, Zhejiang, and Shanghai,
increasing the potential for power trading and extending the project benefits to East
China. This contributed to greater outcome of the project without increasing the risk or
affecting management of the project.




                                            4

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

The estimated total project cost at appraisal (excluding interest during construction) was
US$719.7 million equivalent, of which US$250.0 million was in foreign costs (Bank
loan) and US$469.7 million equivalent in local costs. After completion of the
procurement of major equipment for the original project components, a comparison of
actual equipment costs with the appraisal cost estimates showed significant savings in
foreign costs. At the request of the borrower, an undisbursed loan amount of US$86
million was cancelled on July 23, 2002, and the Bank loan amount was reduced to
US$164.0 million. The loan was also amended in September 2002, after Board
consultation, to (a) use US$31.1 million of the foreign cost savings to finance an
additional project component to further reinforce the transmission system; and (b) extend
the loan closing date from September 30, 2004, to March 31, 2006, to allow completion
of the project.

The latest estimate of the total actual project cost (excluding interest during construction)
was about US$530.2 million equivalent (of which about US$151.1 million was in foreign
costs and about US$379.1 million equivalent in local costs). The latest estimate resulted
in an overall cost savings of about 29 percent, compared with the appraisal estimate. The
significant savings resulted from a combination of factors: (a) lower actual contract
prices (about 10-20 percent lower) than the estimated cost at appraisal in the procurement
of transformers, switches, conductors, and communication equipment because of intense
competition in the fast-growing Chinese market, especially because of increased
participation of Chinese manufacturers in the International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
process (their costs were 15-20 percent lower than competitors); (b) lower Manufacturing
Unit Value Index and local inflation and interest rates, than anticipated at appraisal; (c)
optimized design during project implementation that limited the need for the physical
contingencies provided at appraisal; (d) favorable movement of exchange rates; and (e)
excellent project management.

The latest estimate of project financing requirements amounted to US$552.2 million
including interest during construction (compared with US$888.6 million at appraisal), of
which US$151.1 million was provided by the Bank loan (compared with US$250 million
at appraisal) and US$401.1 million equivalent provided by local loans and ECGC/JPEPC
(compared with US$638.6 million at appraisal). Actual disbursement was about
US$151.1 million; and the undisbursed balance of about US$12.9 million will be
cancelled upon closing of the loan (see Annex 3(a) and 3(b) for details).




                                            5

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The project was designed to help alleviate infrastructure bottlenecks, increase electricity
supply in an environmentally sustainable manner and promote interprovincial electricity
trade. It was in line with two themes of the 1997 CAS: infrastructure development and
environmental protection.       The more reliable transmission system built under the
proposed project was intended to:        (a) reduce serious transmission bottlenecks; (b)
contribute to reducing environmental pollution through the construction of larger and less
polluting plants in optimal locations; and (c) promote interprovincial electricity trade to
improve efficiency. The project objective is still relevant and consistent with three of the
pillars of the Country Partnership Strategy for the period 2006-10: (a) Pillar 3: managing
resources scarcity and environmental challenges; (b) Pillar 4: financing sustained and
efficient growth (the stronger transmission system reduced the impacts of shortages in
East China that affected growth in several provinces and increased trade led to better use
of resources); and (c) Pillar 5: improving public and market institutions.

The project was designed to directly address infrastructure bottlenecks; inadequate
wholesale pricing and institutional barriers that hampered electricity trade in the region. It
was also intended to indirectly address environmental issues by promoting larger-scale
and less-polluting coal units located in populated areas.

The Bank's safeguard policies on Involuntary Resettlement and Environmental
Assessment (project was identified as Category B) were appropriately applied and even
surpassed environmental documentation that was prepared according to Category A
projects; lessons learned from other projects were identified and taken into account in the
design of the project; and government commitment and implementation agency's
ownership were very high.

At appraisal, the six main risk factors were identified and the project was given an overall
"Modest" risk rating. Assumptions and risk mitigation measures were clearly spelled out.

The project objectives were consistent with the CAS in compliance with the government's
commitment to further competition and market oriented in the whole economy in general
and the power sector in particular during project preparation. They are still relevant
under the current Country Partnership Strategy and government priorities. The project
was highly relevant at the time of preparation. Its design was sound and focused on
market development and corporate issues to increase the commercial orientation of the
sector. The risks associated in the project were clearly identified and mitigation measures
to address these were adequate. The quality at entry is therefore rated satisfactory (S).



                                            6

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The project completion cost was significantly lower than the original cost estimate
because of the favorable market conditions during the procurement of goods, lower
inflation rates than anticipated, and   a steady decline in interest rates. All these factors
were difficult to foresee and out of the control of the government and implementing
agency.

Construction of the Yangtze River Crossing suffered delays during project
implementation. The suspension towers of the 500 kV river crossing procured through
ICB are currently the tallest in the world (346.5 meters high, weighing 4000 tons each,
and with a span of 2,303 meters between towers). Their special nature required more
stringent fabrication tolerances and special welding skills to ensure that stress limits in the
structure were not exceeded. The contract was awarded to a reputable company whose
bid was substantially lower than competitors, at about US$19 million. However,
implementation encountered problems from the beginning. Design drawings and
fabrication of the structure have been substantially delayed because (a) the supplier
seemed to have underestimated the difficulties in the design and fabrication of the towers,
and (b) the supplier's local subcontractor lacked adequate experience in the welding of
thick steel. As a consequence, critical tower components, such as the angle cruciform of
panels between meter 206 and meter 286, did not meet the required specifications and had
to be replaced. Thanks to the owner's focus on the quality and integrity of this important
component, these hurdles were overcome and the tower was successfully commissioned
in November 2004. Fortunately, the one-year delay did not have adverse impacts on the
North-South power transmission capability at the time, since commissioning of one of the
power sources in the north was also postponed.

Factors generally subject to government control:

Macroeconomic      policies   and conditions     remained     stable   during    the   project
implementation period while restructuring of the power sector deepened.                   The
government continued to be committed and supportive of ECGC and the project,
especially during the development of a power market in East China despite the emergence
of tensions after the unbundling of the sector. Local governments facilitated the
implementation of the resettlement and environment program and were very supportive
during their successful implementation (see section 7.5).




                                            7

However, cumbersome procurement processes caused delays in the approval of
procurement documents.

Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

ECGC's decision to custom design its Financial Management Information System (FMIS)
and integrate it into an Enterprise Resources Planning (ERP) system was a carefully
considered and well-justified decision. The process and phased implementation took
longer than envisaged because of two changes in ECGC's legal status during the project
implementation period.

Despite some implementation delays in constructions and TA activities, the total project
cost was well below estimates, counterpart funding was secured in a timely manner and
construction quality was excellent. The TA and training programs were also well
implemented to meet the company's needs. Overall, project management, staffing, and
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) were highly adequate.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Based on the project's intended development objectives, impact were monitored according
to quantifiable performance indicators developed during project preparation, with the
assistance of the beneficiaries. They mainly include the reduction in value of production
because of power rationing, a reduction in unused generation capacity because of
transmission bottlenecks, improvements in transmission reliability, and timely
development of a power market (refer to Annex 1 for details).         These performance
indicators were regularly reported on, reviewed, and evaluated against their baseline and
target figures in the course of project implementation and supervision. In addition,
ECGC's financial performance, compliance with the agreed financial covenants and
reporting obligations were regularly monitored and evaluated (refer to section 8.3 for
details).

The resettlement activities were implemented in accordance with the approved
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). An extensive resettlement M&E network was
established within all implementation agencies to allow corrective actions in case of
complaints and deviation from the RAP to ensure that entitlements were being delivered
to affected people and that the livelihood conditions were restored or improved. In
addition, an experienced external monitoring team was selected to carry out external
M&E. The regular monitoring efforts and well-prepared reports reinforced the
communication between affected people and implementation agencies and ensured the
smooth implementation of the RAP.




                                          8

The implementation of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was regularly
monitored and evaluated by the National Electric Environmental Protection Institute, one
of the most respectable environment institutes in the country. Its findings were discussed
and followed up on with ECGC/JPEPC management during supervision missions. High-
quality Environmental and Management and Monitoring Implementation Reports were
regularly submitted in a timely manner. The noise, dust emissions, wastewater and
sewage, and electric and magnetic field were closely supervised and were in compliance
with technical specifications (refer to section 7.4 for details).

As the implementation environment evolved, a minor number of indicators and covenant
were modified and amended by the Bank team over time, in consultation with the
Borrower and implementing agencies. The rationale, justification, and process for such
changes were reflected in supervision documentations. However, the original M&E
design is still considered as appropriate in terms of coverage and practical in terms of
reporting and evaluation of the outputs and outcome of the project. It also proved to be
adaptable as the institutional environment evolved and the reform objectives changed.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Resettlement

The project complied with all Bank social and environmental requirements.             The
resettlement for all project components was implemented in a highly satisfactorily
manner and according to the policies and requirements of the RAP. The resettlement
entities in charge of the RAP implementation from JPEPC down to the city- and county-
level government departments and power supply bureaus were established and adequately
staffed. During project implementation, the project managers from ECGC and JPEPC
attached great importance to the resettlement activities and were very responsive to Bank
suggestions and recommendations. Three resettlement workshops were conducted for all
resettlement staff from different project components to improve understandings of Bank
resettlement policies and RAP requirements.              After correcting some problems
encountered at the local level for two substations in early implementation, JPEPC
required a prior review of compensation contracts for all subprojects before
implementation to ensure compliance with the RAP. These efforts were considered to be
best practice by the Thematic Resettlement Mission carried out by the East Asia and
Pacific Region Environment and Social Development Sector Unit (EASES). At project
completion, about 94 ha of farmland had been acquired (22 percent reduction compared
with the RAP permanent land acquisition), 351,775 square meters of private housing had
been demolished (reduction of about 2 percent compared to the RAP) and 10,039 people
had been relocated (69 percent less than planned relocation). The land acquired and the
number of relocated households was much lower than planned in the RAP, because of the
efforts deployed by the implementing agency to minimize the resettlement impact during


                                             9

the final design, including use, as much as possible, of existing corridors, and adjustment
of the alignment of the towers to avoid populated areas (see Annex 13).

Environment

ECGC implemented the EMP in a highly satisfactory manner. They hired the State
Power Environment Protection Institute to carry out the monitoring program defined in
the EMP. All the requirements specified in the EMP were faithfully implemented and
monitored by the project manager and executive managers in ECGC and JPEPC. ECGC
paid particular attention to the timely measurements of electric and magnetic fields. The
Bank received ten biannual reports in a timely, complete, and consistent manner.
Mitigating measures were fully described and, as appropriate, analyses of the data were
presented. The reports and site supervisions indicated that monitoring results primarily
for noise, waste sewage, and electric and magnetic fields were in full compliance with all
Chinese and World Bank environmental regulations and standards. The implementing
agencies followed up on all recommendations made during supervision missions.

Procurement

A procurement management group was established within ECGC since the inception of
the project. This facilitated the preparation for procurement activities for a large quantity
and variety of technologically complex equipment. The procurement was carried out in
compliance with the Bank's guidelines. A total of 53 packages of equipment and
materials were successfully procured through ICB. In hindsight, the decision to split the
transmission equipment to smaller packages proved to be successful, because each
package required highly specialized technical knowledge. In many cases, however, the
time taken by the various offices of the government and ECGC to clear the procurement
documents and evaluation reports, as well as contract negotiations, was longer than
expected.

Financial Management

ECGC maintained a set of dedicated accounts for the project. They prepared the project
financial statements every quarter. Thorough review of project accounts and discussion
and audits confirmed that the financial management of the project funds was adequate.




                                           10

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed
by present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and
institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Rationale for Sustainability Rating: Highly likely

The sustainability of transmission services is contingent on good planning, timely
investments and operational, financial, and institutional capabilities of the utility(ies).
The project prepared ECGC/JPEPC to meet these requirements:

    · The planning capabilities of both companies have been strengthened through
        training and the transfer of state-of-the-art models. Both utilities now have in-
        house teams with the required skills to carry out sound planning.
    · The project increased both utilities' awareness of the need for timely investments.
        During 2003-2005, ECGC and JPEPC used their own resources to build three new
        500 kV substations and expand three existing 500 kV substations with a total
        capacity of 7,250 MVA. An additional 1,557 km of transmission lines were
        constructed and commissioned. In parallel, another Yangtze River Crossing at
        Zhengjiang, upstream of the project, was commissioned in June 2005, providing
        an additional maximum transit capacity of 3,000 MW. A third crossing at
        Nanjing, with similar capacity, is under construction and will be commissioned in
        the summer of 2007. All these facilities will reinforce and further the project's
        objectives.
    · Both utilities have the technical capability and the dispatch models to operate and
        maintain a highly interconnected transmission system.
    · Both ECGC and JPEPC are in good financial standing with sufficient cash flow to
        operate and maintain the existing system and easy access to local funding to meet
        investment needs.
    · The institutional component initiated the reform process and provided a strong
        knowledge basis on the functioning of power markets.

Following the decision of the government to develop a regional competitive market in
East China, ECGC funded several studies (a) to design the market, and test and operate
it, and (b) to define sound principles for transmission pricing. These principles were
piloted in the region and adopted by national authorities.      It also upgraded the EMS
component of the project to a comprehensive market operation software. ECGC now has
a strong and capable team to operate and supervise the functioning market.

All requirements for the sustainability of the project have been met. Therefore,
sustainability is highly likely.




                                           11

Transition Arrangement to Regular Operations: Satisfactory

The ECGC and JPEPC have the human resources and financial means to operate and
maintain the newly constructed transmission and distribution (T&D) facilities according
to best practice. Plans were made for periodic inspection of all facilities. Each T&D
facility has its own preventive maintenance program specifying the schedule and the tasks
to be carried out. These plans are being implemented in accordance with international
standards and manufacturers' recommendations. The operational plans also include
timely provision of the required budgets and staff training programs for effective O&M
of the newly constructed facilities.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Despite a changing global context (including the East Asian crisis) and shifting
government priorities, the project's outcome objectives remained relevant and in line with
Bank and government priorities at completion. The project, as designed, addressed the
critical challenge of meeting soaring electricity demand in a cost-effective and
environmentally sustainable manner. It anticipated the need for corporatization and
institutional building (in the areas of new skills, management systems, market
management tools, and so forth) to further the power sector reform process. The need for
transmission upgrades and for institutional strengthening of power utilities became even
more urgent because of the rapid economic growth in the region in general, and in
southern Jiangsu in particular. During the period 1996-2004, average annual growth rates
in power consumption and GDP in Suzhou, a city representative of southern Jiangsu,
were about 27 percent and 23 percent, respectively. The project also created the
conditions for furthering competition that eased the transition from the single buyer model
to competitive markets when the government decided to speed up the reform process.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details
on outputs in Annex 4)

The construction of a reliable 500kV high-voltage transmission network alleviated critical
bottlenecks in power transmission infrastructure and facilitated the cost-effective location
of generation capacity. The successful completion and operation of the 500 kV network
and reinforcement of Nanjing urban transmission systems considerably strengthened the
East China (Jiangsu) systems and enhanced power transfer from coal-rich Shanxi
Province to Jiangsu Province, avoiding overburdening an already congested railway
system and limiting pollution in Jiangsu's densely populated areas. The commissioning of
the critical crossing of the Yangtze River (with an overall maximum transit capacity of
4,500 MW) significantly strengthened the 500 kV transmission grid and facilitated bulk



                                           12

power transfers from the new Yangzhou and Tianwan power plants in the northern part of
Jiangsu to the south, providing significant contribution to alleviating the past acute power
shortages of the major load centers, especially Suzhou and Shanghai. In addition, the
reliability of the transmission network has been significantly improved. Faults per 100
km per year on the 500 kV system have been reduced from 0.09 in 1997 to 0. 05 in 2005,
and the efficiency of the system improved through optimum use of the generation
capacity because of the removal of transmission bottlenecks. Power imports by the
Jiangsu power grid and power trade in East China have significantly increased (in 2005,
power trade in East China exceeded the end-of-project target by about 54 percent in
capacity and 75 percent in energy, while power imports by Jiangsu Province were close to
the end-of-project target). This fully achieved the objectives sought under the project.
Capacity building and training produced highly satisfactory results, especially in the areas
of T&D planning, financial management and resettlement.

The project's reform component focused on interprovincial trade between single-buyer
utilities (prevailing model at appraisal) brokered by ECGC in a price-based market. In
2002 the government issued new regulations and mandated the gradual establishment of
regional competitive markets. East China was one of the two pilot regions selected for
the establishment of a competitive power market. The TA and the energy management
system component contributed to the design and operation of the regional market. The
design of the East China Competitive Power Market was completed and regular operation
began in May 2006, exceeding the objective of the reform program agreed upon during
project preparation and appraisal. Power trade within the East China Group amounted to
4,745 MW and 23. 7 TWh during 2005. The ownership of transmission assets and the
relationship between ECGC and provincial power companies in East China were
clarified during the preparation phase of the establishment of the East China Competitive
Power Market.

The project ultimately achieved or exceeded the outcomes envisaged at appraisal. The
sustainability of these development results is highly likely. However, the overall
outcome was rated as only satisfactory because of the delay in completion of the Yangtze
River Crossing, even though this delay was beyond the implementing agency's control.

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms,
least cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

At appraisal, the project was primarily justified on its cost-effectiveness. The
justification process involved three steps: first, the need and timing for reinforcement of
the transmission system was established. Then the economic evaluation of technically
feasible alternatives was performed. Thereafter, the design parameters of the least-cost
solution were optimized. To complement this approach, a cost-benefit analysis was
carried out based on (a) the cost of the planned 500 kV investment program and related


                                           13

O&M, and (b) the financial benefits from the incremental power sales values at the
average covenanted tariff for the 500 kV transmission services. The calculation yielded an
internal economic rate of return (IERR) of 19.1 percent. The IERR estimated after project
completion, using the same methodology, was 23.6 percent (refer to Annex 5). It must
be noted that during the project investment period, actual investment for the development
of the 500 kV transmission system outside the project amounted to more than US$550
million equivalent, more than 10 times ECGC's projected investment of about US$48
million equivalent at appraisal. This reflects the increased role of ECGC in construction
and operation of the 500 kV system after the government decision to develop a regional
power market. Under the framework prevailing at appraisal, most of these investments
were to be implemented by the provincial power companies. The associated O&M costs
are also higher than envisaged at appraisal and the projected volume of power
transmission was lower than earlier forecasted because of delayed commissioning of
some facilities. However, the combined effects of all these factors were more than offset
by a higher actual transmission tariff (0.0377Y/kWh) than covenanted (0.022Y/kWh). At
appraisal, the financial rate of return was estimated to be 14.6 percent. Since the ratio is
not normally calculated for this type of project, it was not re-estimated at completion.
Instead, the focus of the financial assessment was on the financial viability of ECGC and
the company's compliance with the financial covenants.

Debt Service Coverage Ratio Covenant. Actual project cost, with the expanded scope,
was about 74 percent of the appraisal estimates. The corresponding reduction in the Bank
loan and local borrowings, coupled with lower-than-expected interest rates enabled ECGC
to maintain a healthy debt service coverage ratio, despite lower-than-projected revenues.
The covenanted ratio of 1.5 had substantially been met, and is expected to be met in the
foreseeable future.

Equity Covenant and Tariff Principles. At the time of project completion, ECGC's energy
supply to JPEPC was governed by a written agreement. Compensation to ECGC was
established to cover the full cost of financing, O&M of the transmission facilities, plus a
return of about 10 percent on equity investments. This level fell short of the covenanted
level of 15 percent. However, international experience shows that such a return is
adequate for a utility essentially focused on transmission. Furthermore, the cost of
capital was significantly lower at the time of project completion than at the time of
appraisal because of lower global inflation.

During project implementation, it became clear that the original intent of the covenant
was no longer relevant, given the corporate and sector changes that had happened. The
government-mandated sector unbundling (ECGC has to transfer about 75 to 80 percent of
its highly profitable generation assets to five newly created generation companies) and
investments (mostly in nonprofitable rural areas) obliged grid companies such as ECGC
to expand and at the same time absorb the negative effects of income losses.
Transmission tariffs are being developed and will be regulated. The covenanted measures


                                           14

also proved difficult to calculate and monitor when the project assets became part of an
increasingly interconnected power grid. Moreover, there were still many distortions in
accounting regulations --such as understatement of revenue (consumer contributions) and
overstatement of expenses (depreciation as high as 7 percent per year)--that underestimate
the power company's financial viability. At the request of the Borrower, this covenant
was dropped and the legal agreements were amended to reflect the change.

Annual Audit Covenant. Audit reports were submitted to the Bank on time except in
2002 (the Bank agreed to delayed submission during the SARS epidemic). The reports
were approved by the auditors without qualifications. However, one recurring financial
management issue had been the minor discrepancies between the Bank's year-end
disbursement figures and the audited project statements. This was caused by time lags in
bookkeeping, a national accounting practice outside ECGC's control.

Rolling Eight-Year Financial Forecasts and Assumptions. During the earlier years of
project implementation (2000­01), ECGC hired a consulting firm to prepare the financial
forecasts. Given the uncertainties about the reform process, the Bank agreed to waive
this covenant during the restructuring of the sector and the corporate reorganization of
ECGC (2002­04). Preparation of financial projections resumed in 2004, with ECGC's
own financial staff taking on that responsibility. Given the prevailing uncertainties about
the reform prospects in 2004, ECGC requested and the Bank agreed to limit the forecast
period to five years for 2004 and 2005 (quite acceptable for a transmission company). The
last set of forecasts prepared in 2006 again covered eight years (2006­13), as covenanted.
At completion, the forecasts were satisfactory and indicated that the ECGC's financial
situation would remain viable in the foreseeable future.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

The project-specific development objective remained relevant despite the changes that
affected the sector, and it has been fully achieved. The project contributed to efficient and
environmentally sound power supply in the region.          Infrastructure constraints were
removed, and a competitive regional power market has been designed and is operating
satisfactorily. This significantly increased power trade within the region and with other
provinces. The economic rate of return achieved was higher than the opportunity cost of
capital. Transmission pricing issues have been partially addressed. The overall outcome
is therefore rated satisfactory.




                                            15

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

These themes were not explicitly included in the PDO. However, development of the
power infrastructure contributed to the sustained high economic growth and job creation
in East China.     This growth contributed to poverty reduction in China by providing
important job opportunities to migrant workers from poor provinces. The resettlement
programs implemented under the project contributed to improving the living conditions of
affected people.

Increased competition would over the long term benefit power consumers in the region.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional
development)

The implementation of the institutional development components improved and
strengthened ECGC's capacity in: (a) performing comprehensive T&D planning (this
applies also to JPEPC); (b) acquiring the know-how and fully mastering all aspects of
design and operation of power spot markets; and (c) gaining expertise in managing
complex transmission projects, in particular through the implementation of the technically
challenging river crossing towers (this applies also to JPEPC). The experience gained
also benefited other power companies through constant staff promotions and
reassignments within the sector.

The integrated management information system was instrumental in improving the
company's operating efficiency.     It enabled ECGC to utilize its human and financial
resources better. ECGC indicated that the design of the accounting and financial
management systems helped clarify each department's functions and responsibilities,
streamline and standardize procedures, reduce delays and duplications, and strengthen
internal controls and information flow. The resulting centralized real-time database also
made record-keeping, data retrieval, statistical analysis, and reporting internally
consistent, traceable, and timely. After one full year of operation, ECGC considered the
improvement very significant and the results to date satisfactory. It intends to continue
adding new modules to the system to meet Enterprise Resources Planning requirements
for the sector reform.

The project was critical in increasing the implementing agencies' awareness about
environmental and social issues. It enhanced the implementing agencies' capacity to
follow international practices and standards and streamline social and environmental
procedures during project implementation.


                                          16

At project completion, the institutional impact was deemed satisfactory.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
Not applicable.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Not applicable.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible

The substations and 500 kV lines built under the project met all quality assurance and
performance tests. ECGC has the technical and managerial capabilities to operate and
maintain them according to industry standards.

The government commitment to reform remains very strong despite the emerging vested
interests that have attempted to delay implementation.

The East China Grid is a pilot regional market closely monitored by concerned
government and regulatory agencies. Transmission prices have been increased, and
they currently cover the costs of supply and allow satisfactory returns on equity and
assets. Significant progress has been made to address the issues relating to the structure of
transmission price. Foreseen foreign exchange movements would be profitable to the
project.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

At identification, linkage of project components to the CAS objectives and the
government's development strategy and sector priority was clearly established.
Thereafter, the project team assisted the borrower and implementing agency in designing
and preparing the project to meet the Bank's technical, financial, safeguards and economic
standards. The team also helped ECGC design a training program to strengthen its
institutional capacity to implement the project components and meet its obligations. The
project reform program benefited from the Bank's extensive economic and sector work



                                           17

related to China's power sector reform. The experience gained and lessons learned from
the highly successful Bank program in the country's power sector have been taken into
account during the design and preparation of the project. The composition of the appraisal
team was adequate, including specialists in economics, engineering, finance, legal, power
sector restructuring, energy, resettlement, and the environment. Bank staff established
good working relationships with the executing agencies during preparation and appraisal
of the project. The appraisal coverage was comprehensive, as reflected in the PAD. The
Bank's performance in lending was satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

Project supervision was planned and carried out biannually.     Supervision missions were
adequately staffed to address implementation issues as they emerged, and time in the field
was sufficient. The frequency of mission was adequate -- 14 (including one ICR mission)
to ECGC and project sites over a period of about seven years. To avoid delays, as
experienced in the early stage of the project, efforts well beyond normal supervision were
made by the Bank to assist ECGC in processing the packages of the additional component
in the most effective way and shortest time. A mission visited ECGC to discuss and
finalize most of the bidding documents for the additional components and provide no
objections in a timely manner.

During supervision, Bank staff reviewed critical aspects of the project, identified factors
impeding smooth implementation, and suggested remedial actions to address them.
Although there were differences of opinion relating to the evaluation report of the
suspension towers for the Yangtze River Crossing and in the interpretation of the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines, it was agreed that the problems that had delayed project
implementation could have been encountered with any manufacturer given the complexity
of the project. The final award decision was basically justified because of the important
financial savings. However, since quality -- especially that related to welding skill -- was
essential to ensuring satisfactory performance, the local subcontractor's (major
manufacturer for the suspension towers) minimum qualification requirements should have
been more carefully reviewed and the selection of subcontractor should have been
finalized before the contract was awarded.

For the most part, Bank staff showed flexibility in supporting the use of the cost savings,
in amending the financial covenants to meet the changing circumstances of the sector, and
in    accepting    an   alternative   approach      in   the    implementation    of     the
management/institutional development components.




                                          18

Working relationships of the Bank, borrower and implementing agency(ies) were highly
satisfactory. Adequate attention was also paid to the development objectives and reform
program during the implementation period.

Progress reporting was timely and comprehensive. Performance ratings in Project Status
Reports PSR were deemed realistic. Agreed actions have been followed upon and
implemented. Supervision activities and the team's recommendations were reviewed and
followed upon by Bank management. Involvement and support of Bank managers at
critical points of project implementation have been consistent. The Country Office in
Beijing provided support in procurement, disbursement, and financial management-related
activities as the needs arose.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The quality at entry was satisfactory. Linkage of project components to the CAS
objectives and the government's development strategy and sector priority was clearly
established. Project supervision of all aspects of the project, with special attention to
resettlement and environmental issues, was planned and carried out efficiently.
Supervision of physical, institutional and safeguard aspects were effective and adequate.
Performance reporting was timely and comprehensive. The Bank maintained good
working relations with the Borrower and the Beneficiary. Involvement and support of
Bank managers at critical points of project implementation have been consistent.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The central and provincial governments were very supportive of the project, particularly
in resettlement and construction of the critical component of the Yangtze River Crossing.
Counterpart funds were made available in a timely manner. The central government and
the State Electricity Regulatory Commission supported the power sector reforms, namely
phasing out the power exchange quota system furthering power trade within the region on
a commercial basis, and finally establishing a competitive power market. However, lack
of coordination among concerned agencies created some problems during the design and
implementation of the competitive market.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Implementing       The preparation was carried out by a team dedicated to the project and
Agency             assisted by concerned departments as needed. The team has been
Performance        responsive to Bank requests and prepared high-quality documentation on
                   a timely basis. During implementation, ECGC was fully committed to


                                           19

                 sector restructuring and power market reform, and ECGC paid particular
                 attention to quality and safety measures at all times. During construction,
                 a comprehensive safety program to promote awareness, create a safe
                 working     environment,    and prevent  injuries    was   prepared    and
                 consistently implemented at all construction sites.         ECGC made
                 recognized efforts to establish and enforce high standards for equipment
                 and installation. All newly built substations and transmission lines met
                 the State Grid Corporation's acceptance tests for commissioning. Three
                 of the substations (Shengpu, Yangdong, and Yengchen) won two
                 national awards: the National Award for Excellence in Construction
                 Quality and the National Luban Construction Award.
East China Grid   The Yangtze River Crossing was a very demanding component. The
Corporation Ltd. general and detailed designs required extraordinary efforts and time
                 because of the complex nature of the towers and the stringing
                 requirements. To minimize the delay in construction of the river
                 crossing, ECGC's management paid great attention to the problems
                 encountered, and maintained the communication with the supplier at a
                 high management level to enforce quality assurance and contract
                 performance requirements. When the Chinese subcontractor failed to
                 rectify the defects of the key suspension tower equipment, they
                 negotiated and reached agreement with the international supplier to
                 replace them with equipment manufactured in the supplier's overseas
                 workshop. Effective measures were also taken by ECGC/JPEPC to
                 improve coordination, strengthen interfacing, speed up decision making,
                 and optimize the installation process in order to overcome the major
                 technical    difficulties experienced    during    construction    without
                 compromising safety. Detailed measurements of the completed river
                 crossing towers showed that the integral deviation of the suspension
                 tower section was 2.2 cm, which was substantially lower than the
                 specified limit of no more than 23 cm, and indicated that the quality of
                 material and installation, as well as the end result, were all highly
                 satisfactory.

                 ECGC also showed the same level of commitment in meeting all the
                 requirements of the EMP and RAP and in implementing of the training
                 and institutional component of the project. Both ECGC and JPEPC
                 deserve a highly satisfactory rating for quality of implementation,
                 initiative, and problem-solving when faced with unexpected difficult
                 situations.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

At the central government level, the Borrower, represented by the Ministry of Finance and
the State Development and Planning Commission (currently the National Development



                                          20

and Reform Commission) supported the design of the project and the reform program.
They attended the critical preparation missions and assisted the implementing agency in
securing internal approvals on a timely basis. At the corporate level, project preparation
was well coordinated by a steering committee, chaired by ECGC's Vice President for
Planning, and consisting of members from ECGC, JPEPC and design institutes involved
in the preparation of the project. The project was well prepared to reflect the urgent need
to achieve system efficiency and introduce competition at the generation level, with due
attention to environmental and social issues.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Long-Term Transmission Planning: Conducting extensive studies to ensure sound
investment decisions is very important for developing cost-effective transmission
systems. At the inception of the project, the Bank indicated that the system required more
investments than envisaged under the project. The ECGC and JPEPC were reluctant to
increase the scope because the project would have been delayed. The Bank recommended
and helped finance through Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) a
comprehensive Long-Term Transmission Planning (2000-10) for the East China (Jiangsu)
power transmission systems, which was prepared and provided the basis for the strategic
study to develop the 500 kV network for the Jiangsu Power Grid and enhance the
interconnections with neighboring provinces to increase power exchange capability within
the East China Regional Power System. The studies convinced ECGC to speed up the
development of the regional 500 kV transmission system. They helped both entities in
scheduling the needed investments to complete the Bank project and meet the surging
power needs of the region. They ensured that the system expansion was cost effective
and provided the basis for a reliable and stable operation of the system with highest
possible reliability.

Procurement: The 500 kV river crossing suspension tower bid package was technically
complex in nature and should have received greater attention during the review and
evaluation of the qualification of supplier and its subcontractor. Having recognized the
special nature of the river crossing towers in the PAD, the Bank should have insisted on
prequalification of the prospective bidders prior to the issuance of the bidding documents
to the qualified bidders. Qualification requirements should be specified better and
particular attention should be paid to coordinating between commercial and technical
aspects in similar projects. In contract awarding, the Bank should have paid adequate
attention to the technical complexities involved and to the issues and concerns raised by
the borrower particularly on the technical aspects.

Power Sector Reform: The project confirmed the need to avoid rigid and Bank
mandated reform programs. It showed that flexibility is paramount to adapt the agreed
program to institutional changes and revised reform objectives in the country.


                                           21

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower raised the issue of evaluation and contract awarding of the Suspension
Tower Bid Package in the Borrower's ICR (see Annex 10, Para. 6.1 for detail). Although
there were differences in opinion between the Bank and the borrower on the contract
award, there was a general consensus during the ICR mission that the final decision to
award the contract to the lowest bidder was in line with the Bidding Documents and the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines and saved money despite the difficulties encountered in
the contract execution. ECGC and the Bank team were also in general agreement on the
lessons learned, which were reflected in the ICR (Section 11 and Annex 10).

(b) Cofinanciers
None.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
None.




                                          22

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The project objective, as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), was to alleviate
critical bottlenecks in the power transmission infrastructure and increase electricity trade on a
commercial basis in East China. The objective was to be achieved through (a) development of
a reliable 500 kV transmission network to facilitate optimum location of state-of-the-art
generating capacity and transfer of energy to load centers in a cost-effective way, (b)
transformation of the East China Electric Power Group Corporation (ECEPGC) into a modern
corporate entity, and (c) implementation of a regional power market for power exchange and
trade.

Selected key indicators to monitor the project impacts included a reduction in value of lost
production because of power rationing, a reduction in unused generation capacity because of
transmission bottlenecks, a strengthening of the 500 kV transmission network, improvements
in transmission reliability, timely development of a power market and capacity building of
network planning (Annex 1 (a)).

In 2002 ECEPGC lost its autonomous legal status and became a regional department of the
State Power Grid Company. Two years later, it was spun off and became the East China Grid
Company (ECGC), a new legal entity entrusted with the assets of the former ECEPGC. As
such, ECGC became the successor to ECEPGC, including all of ECEPGC's project-related
obligations and all assets financed under the project. The Loan Agreement was amended and a
new Project Agreement with ECGC, the new implementing agency, was signed. To avoid
confusion, the latter's name and acronym (ECGC) are used from para. 6.3 onwards.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The project objective was not revised. The project objective remained appropriate despite the
important changes that affected China's power sector in the early 2000s. The development of a
reliable 500 kV transmission system in Jiangsu Province and increased power trade on a
commercial basis with neighboring provinces remained critical to the establishment of a
competitive power market in East China to meet the more stringent requirements of the reform
plan issued by the government in March 2002. Substantial cost savings allowed ECGC to
cancel part of the loan and use the remainder to increase the scope of the physical component.
The added component was fully within the scope of the original project objective.

The key indicators were not revised during project implementation.




                                           23

PDO Indicators:
                                 Original Target Values
    Indicator      Baseline                                 Formally Revised       Actual Value Achieved at
                    Value           (from approval
                                       documents)             Target Values      Completion or Target Years

Indicator 1 :    Reduction in value of lost production due to power rationing in Jiangsu (billions of Yuan)

Value
(quantitative or 16            0.08                                              0
Qualitative)

Date achieved    12/31/1997    12/31/2005                                        12/31/2005

Comments
(incl. %         Surpassed target
achievement)

                 Reduction in unused capacity in Jiangsu because of transmission and network overloading
Indicator 2 :
                 (MW)

Value
(quantitative or 1000          10                                                0
Qualitative)

Date achieved    12/31/1997    12/31/2005                                        12/31/2005

Comments
(incl. %         Surpassed target
achievement)

Indicator 3 :    Development and implementation of modern accounting and financial systems

Value                                                      Approach changed
                               Complete expanded
(quantitative or na                                        because sector was Basic system fully operational
                               system
Qualitative)                                               to be restructured

Date achieved    12/31/1997    03/31/2005                  12/31/2002            06/30/2005

Comments
(incl. %         Phased approach adopted, internal resources used. (Refer to Section 8.5-b)
achievement)

Indicator 4 :    Faults per 100 km. per year in the 500 kV system

Value
(quantitative or 0.09          0.05                                              0.05
Qualitative)

Date achieved    12/31/1997    12/31/2005                                        12/05/2005

Comments
(incl. %         Achieved
achievement)

Indicator 5 :    Unserved energy because transmission outage at 500 kV level (GWh)

Value
(quantitative or 400           5                                                 0
Qualitative)


                                                24

Date achieved    12/31/1997     12/31/2005                                     12/31/2005

Comments
(incl. %         Surpassed target
achievement)

Indicator 6 :    Increase in power import to Jiangsu grid

Value
(quantitative or 0              5,100 MW 21.7 TWh                              4,328 MW 21.6 TWh
Qualitative)

Date achieved    12/31/1997     12/31/2005                                     12/31/2005

Comments
(incl. %         Close to target achievement
achievement)

Indicator 7 :    Increase in power exchange within the East China Grid

Value
                 1,500 MW
(quantitative or                4,500 MW 13,500 GWh                            4,745 MW 23,725 GWh
                 13,500 GWh
Qualitative)

Date achieved    12/31/1997     12/31/2005                                     12/31/2005

Comments
(incl. %         Surpassed target
achievement)

Indicator 8 :    Length of 500 kV transmission line added (including additional component)

Value
(quantitative or 0              993 km                                         1,077 km
Qualitative)

Date achieved    12/31/1997     12/31/2005                                     12/31/2005

Comments
(incl. %         Surpassed target
achievement)

Indicator 9 :    500 kV transformer capacity added

Value
(quantitative or 0              5,500 MVA                                      8,000 MVA
Qualitative)

Date achieved    12/31/1997     12/31/2005                                     12/31/2005

Comments
(incl. %         Surpassed target
achievement)

Indicator 10 :   Power market design and ownership of transmission assets in East China

Value            Design and     A price-based power                            A competitive regional power
(quantitative or ownership      market (interprovincial                        market has been designed and
Qualitative)     clarified      trade brokered by ECGC)                        is operating; ownership



                                                25

                               in place                                           clarified while market was
                                                                                  being esta blished

Date achieved    12/31/1997    04/30/1999                                         05/31/2006

Comments
(incl. %         Achieved
achievement)

                 Selection of transmission network planning software, implementation of planning
Indicator 11 :   studies: - Computers and software installed by Dec. 1988 - 10 staff trained in Dec
                 1998

                                                                                  - Software installed in 1998 -
Value
                               Computer and software                              16 trained in 1998 - Planning
(quantitative or
                               installed; 10 staff trained                        knowledge and tools acquired
Qualitative)
                                                                                  and function streamlined

Date achieved                  12/31/1998                                         12/31/2005

Comments         Fully achieved. Delay is fully justified because of power sector restructuring (separation of
(incl. %         generation from T&D and implementation of regional competitive power market)
achievement)



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


     Indicator     Baseline      Original Target Values        Formally Revised       Actual Value Achieved at
                    Value      (from approval documents)         Target Values      Completion or Target Years

Indicator 1 :    Not applicable for this project processed in 1996

Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)

Date achieved

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                 26

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) n/a

                           ISR Ratings at
Restructuring   Board                     Amount Disbursed at      Reason for
                           Restructuring
  Date(s)    Approved PDO                 Restructuring in US$ Restructuring & Key
               Change       DO       IP        Millions          Changes Made




                                      27

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Millions equivalent)


                                Appraisal          Actual/Latest
         Components           Estimate (US$       Estimate (US$     Percentage of

                                 Millions)          Millions)          Appraisal

Preparatory Works                         1.4                   2.3          164.3
Land Acquisition and
                                         60.5                  62.0          102.5
Resettlement
Civil Works                             120.8                159.5           132.0
Construction Management                  37.3                  36.3            97.3
Equipment and Materials                 400.6                250.1             62.4
Engineering Services                      6.8                  17.0          250.0
Technical Assistance                      3.5                   1.5            42.9
Training                                  2.1                   1.5            71.4
Total Baseline Cost                     633.0                530.2
       Physical Contingencies            86.7
Price Contingencies                       0.0
Total Project Costs                     719.7                530.2
  Project Preparation Facility
                                          0.0                   0.0             0.0
                       (PPF)
Interest During Construction            168.9                  22.0            13.0
Total Financing Required                888.6                552.2

(b) Financing


                                                Appraisal       Actual/Latest
     Source of Funds           Type of                                           Percentage of
                             Cofinancing       Estimate (US$    Estimate (US$
                                                 Millions)         Millions)       Appraisal

                                Local loan &
 Borrower                                              638.6               401.1         62.8
                             investors' equity
 International Bank for
Reconstruction and                                     250.0               151.1         60.4
Development




                                              28

(c) Disbursement Profile




                        Note: The graph is in currency of the loan/credit/grant.




                                             29

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Supply and Construction of 500 kV Transmission Lines and Substations

Satisfactory.    Under the original and additional project components, a total of
15 segments of 500 kV lines, 7 new 500 kV substations were constructed and 4
substations were expanded according to schedule, except the Yangdong          Doshan line,
which was delayed for about 15 months because of the problem encountered in the
Yangtze River Crossing segment. Despite delays in contract awarding and delivery of
some equipment, the project execution and management led to outstanding achievements
in terms of quality, cost saving, and safety. Upon completion of the project, a total of
1,077 km of new 500 kV transmission lines and 8,000 MVA of transformation capacity
were added to the system, exceeding the end of the original project target by 8 percent and
45 percent, respectively. All transmission facilities constructed under the project are
operating satisfactorily and contributing to the adequate power supply of the fast-growing
East China region. The project also strengthened the 220 kV network to improve supply
in secondary load centers, thereby reducing the fault power level, and improving the
overall system reliability.

Reinforcement of the Nanjing Urban Transmission Systems

Satisfactory. The construction of two new 220/110/10 kV substations and two new
indoor 110/10 kV substations (together with the installation of the energy and distribution
management system, and 16.6 km of associated cable), was completed on schedule
between December 2000 and June 2001. Total transformer capacity of 740 MVA has
been added to the Nanjing Urban transmission system. The commissioning of the 220
kV substations at Xiaguan and Daxinggon and 110 kV substations at Xuanwumen and
Shanghailu ensured adequate power supply of the city center and significantly contributed
to reducing the overload of existing sub-transmission and distribution facilities.     The
additions improved the reliability of the distribution network and met the growing needs
of the provincial capital.

Consulting Services for Engineering and Construction Management

Satisfactory. Local and international consultants provided services for engineering and
construction management. The consultants' services were used effectively. At the
inception of the project, a comprehensive long-term transmission planning study of the
East China Electric Power System was prepared by reputable international consultants
and served as the basis for the project formulation and, subsequently, its expansion. The
consultants also contributed considerably to the review and finalization of detailed
designs, procurement activities and construction management.            In particular, the
consultants assisted the owner in the supervision of the construction of the Yangtze River
Crossing and provided valuable advice to improve the effectiveness of inspections and


                                           30

quality assurance activities, and in applying modern management in site supervision for
tower installation and line stringing.

Consulting Services for the Detailed Design and Implementation of the Power
Market in East China

Satisfactory. In 2000, ECGC met the objectives of the          reform program agreed at
appraisal. It established rules for bilateral electricity transactions to regulate power
transactions in accordance with the regulations of grid safety and reliability. The
transactions were categorized into four types: long-term, mid-term, short-term and hourly.
  Voluntary transactions gradually replaced the traditional compulsory power exchange
quotas. The power trade on a commercial basis improved the production efficiency and
supply reliability in East China.

Following issuance of the State Council Document No. 5 in March 2002, the East China
Grid was selected by the government as one of the two pilot regional competitive power
markets. ECGC designed the market with the assistance of international consultants and
commenced market simulation on May 18, 2004 under the supervision of the State
Electricity Regulatory Commission. During the simulation period, clearing prices for
month-ahead transactions were determined based on bids (prices and volumes) received
from generators and buyers without settlement. All information related to the market was
made available to all market participants.

The TA provided under the project helped the power entities in East China develop an
improved institutional structure and the associated pricing and operation incentives to
increase interprovincial power market trade in East China. Since 1999, ECGC's
Restructuring Working Group, with the assistance of several international consulting
firms, carried out comprehensive power market research, determined the reform direction,
and prepared specific operating and commercial regulations for the East China
Competitive Power Market, which included (a) market operation manual, (b) market
operation agreement, (c) outline of grid code, (d) model bilateral contracts, and (e)
generation contracts. The project software and hardware for the Energy Management and
Trading System for East China was procured and adapted to the grid's condition and is
now operating satisfactorily. Specialists from an international supplier provided
necessary training of ECGC staff on the market operation system and data engineering.
The comprehensive simulation of the day-ahead and monthly markets in the East China
Grid was started in October 2005 and operation of the regional market started in May
2006.

International consultants also assisted ECGC in carrying out a T&D pricing study. The
principles recommended in the study were adopted by the Chinese Government for trial
operation. The State Electricity Regulatory Commission issued regulations for an
interim T&D pricing system effective January 1, 2006.


                                          31

Technical Assistance for Improved Accounting and Financial Management Systems

Satisfactory. At appraisal, it was planned to engage international consultants to assist
ECGC in studying and developing a suitable accounting and financial management
system for the company. The TA covered the design of cost accounting, performance
evaluation and financial planning arrangements, and the development of an FMIS. It also
included extensive training programs to upgrade staff skills in accounting and finance.
Cost was estimated to be US$2.25 million, all of which was to be financed by the Bank
loan. A consultant contract was expected to be signed by the first half of 1998.

Early in the process, study tours were conducted to allow ECGC to explore and evaluate
operational FMIS models used by utilities in developed countries. After much
consideration, the company concluded that it would best serve its purpose to develop its
own FMIS within the framework of an integrated enterprise resource planning system to
be gradually developed. It also decided to use its own resources for this purpose. The
consultant contract, including the provision of software and hardware, was awarded to a
domestic company in Jiangsu that was familiar with the power sector reform in East
China. The FMIS system was designed to include core modules for budget management,
operations management, accounts and financial management, transactions and
documentation, financial and management report production, and systems maintenance.
It also included auxiliary modules for fixed asset management, contract processing and
management, data search, payroll, and material management.

Implementation was divided into three phases: (a) testing of the system in one power
plant to assess the system and gain experience in 2001, followed by piloting several core
modules in ECGC headquarters and subsidiaries, and dissemination of the lessons learned
about the FMIS among financial and planning personnel; (b) piloting separate but
uniformly designed auxiliary modules in administrative units and ECGC headquarters;
and (c) systems integration. The basic FMIS became fully operational in the various
ECGC power plants, research institute, training center, administrative units and
headquarters in early 2005. Total contract cost was about US$3.0 million equivalent.

Although implementation of this component deviated from the appraised plan, it was fully
consistent with the original objectives. Since    the power sector restructuring in China
was constantly evolving during the project implementation period, ECGC's pragmatic
approach to pilot and design the FMIS in phases, first learning about international practice
during overseas study tours and hiring a national consulting firm familiar with the
prevailing sector issues were, in hindsight, appropriate and achieved the project
objectives. The process took much longer than expected, but given the unforeseeable
changes introduced in the reform process, the delay in implementation is understandable.
The component was consistent with macro and sector policies and project objective; and
the overall result was positive. Hence, the achievement is rated satisfactory.


                                           32

Institutional/Management Development and Training

Satisfactory. The objective of the training program was to enable ECGC to function as a
regional transmission company, to more efficiently manage its business, and to develop
the required skills to operate the regional competitive market. Three hundred and sixty-
six staff-months of training were provided to staff domestically and abroad: (a) 23
overseas sessions for 325 participants totaling about 156 staff months and (b) 8 training
courses in Jiangsu and Shanghai for 235 participants totaling about 210 staff months. Of
the total, 11 overseas training sessions for about 200 participants totaling about 93 staff
months were funded under a TCC before the Bank loan became effective. The bulk of
training was for technical and planning staff. Training for accounting and financial staff
included three study visits for 12 participants and three training courses for 85
participants for a month each. The training in market operations and financial
management substantially strengthened the company's operational capabilities to meet the
needs of the new structure of the power sector. On-the-job training also provided during
the system planning study in power system planning approaches and techniques in
parallel with formal classroom sessions. This greatly enhanced ECGC's in-house
transmission planning and project management capability. At the time of project
completion, ECGC's engineers were able to conduct comprehensive analyses of system
performance using the state-of-the-art software acquired during the study. This allowed
the company to plan, evaluate, modify, and refine long-term transmission development
options to support investment decisions.




                                          33

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the
analysis)

At appraisal, the project was primarily justified on its cost effectiveness.               The
justification process involved three steps: first, the need and timing for reinforcement of
the transmission system was established; then the economic evaluation of technically
feasible alternatives was performed; thereafter, the design parameters of the least-cost
solution were optimized. To complement this approach, a cost-benefit analysis was
carried out. The calculation yielded an IERR of 19.1 percent.               Using the same
methodology, re-estimation of the IERR at the time of the ICR was 23.6 percent. The
increase was mainly due to the actual transmission tariff (0.0377Y/kWh), which was
substantially higher than the proxy from willingness-to-pay level at appraisal (0.
022Y/kWh). The associated O&M cost is proportionally higher. At the same time, the
projected volume of power transmission was lower than earlier forecasted due to delayed
commissioning of some facilities. Their combined effects of the latter were more than
offset by the tariff differential.

           Energy Through New 500 kV        Investment                                  Net
 Year                 Lines               Project Other O&M      Total Cost Benefit  Benefit
                       GWh                                     Yuan Million
 1997                   0                  80.0   93.0            173.0               -173.0
 1998                 1,879               609.7   111.0           720.7     70.1      -650.5
 1999                 3,982               530.4   12.0    28.7    571.1     148.6     -422.5
 2000                 7,530               831.0   37.0    46.1    914.1     281.0     -633.1
 2001                12,635               732.3   37.0    61.5    830.8    471. 6     -359. 2
 2002                20,177               343. 8  689. 0  82. 1  1,114. 9  753. 1     -361. 8
 2003                33,995               413. 4 1,107. 0 112. 5 1,632. 9  1,268. 8   -364. 2
 2004                45,784               487. 0 1,543. 0 153. 1 2,183. 2  1,708. 8   -474. 4
 2005                61,021               209. 2  978. 0 176. 9  1,364. 1  2,277. 5   913. 4
 2006                61,021                              176. 9   176. 9   2,277. 5  2,100. 6
 2007                61,021                              176. 9   176. 9   2,277. 5  2,100. 6
 2008                61,021                              176. 9   176. 9   2,277. 5  2,100. 6
 2009                61,021                              176. 9   176. 9   2,277. 5  2,100. 6
2010-30
per year             61,021                              176. 9   176. 9   2,277. 5  2,100. 6

 Total              1,712,533             4,237   4,607 5,083              63,917     49,990

            Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) =                          23.6 percent




                                             34

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


          Names                  Title                Unit   Responsibility/Specialty
Lending

Bernard Baratz       Principal Environment
                     Specialist                   EASEG      Environmental Specialist

Noureddine Berrah    Principal Energy Specialist  EASEG      Task Team Leader
Weigong Cao          Consultant                   EASEG      Power Engr/Procurement
Philip Daltrop       Consultant                   LEGEA
Clifford Garstang    Legal Counsel                LEGEA      Legal Counsel
Ranjit J. Lamech     Energy Specialist            ECSIE      Energy Specialist
Norma L. Leon        Senior Program Assistant     EASEG
Neil A. Magrath      Consultant                   EASEG
Heinz Pape           Energy Economist             EASEG
Hsiao-Yun Elaine Sun Senior Energy Specialist     EACCF      Financial Specialist
Junhui Wu            Senior Power Engineer        EASEG      Power Engineer
Jianping Zhao        Energy Specialist            EASEG
Youxuan Zhu          Consultant                   EASEG      Resettlement Specialist
Supervision/ICR
Bernard Baratz       Consultant                   EASEG      Environmental Specialist

Noureddine Berrah    Lead Energy
                     Specialist/Consultant        EASEG      Task Team Leader

Weigong Cao          Consultant                   EASEG      Power Engineer
Ivy H. Cheng         Consultant                   EASEG      Financial Management
Nina Masako Eejima   Sr Counsel                   LEGMS
Clifford Garstang    Legal Counsel/Consultant     LEGEA      Legal Counsel
Cristina Hernandez   Program Assistant            EASEG
Ranjit J. Lamech     Sector Leader                ECSIE      Sector Restructuring Spec

Haixia Li            Financial Management
                     Specialist                   EAPCO

Chau-Ching Shen      Senior Finance Officer       LOAG2
Kashinath N. Sheorey Consultant                   EASEG      Procurement
Hsiao-Yun Elaine Sun Manager, Operations          EACCF      Financial Specialist
Junhui Wu            Sector Manager               EASEG
Yuling Zhou          Sr Procurement Spec.         EASEG      Procurement
Youxuan Zhu          Consultant                   EASEG      Resettlement




                                        35

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs



    No. Date ISR Archived        DO              IP         Actual Disbursements
                                                               (US$ Millions)
   1   06/19/1998             Satisfactory   Satisfactory                     0.00
   2   12/23/1998             Satisfactory   Satisfactory                     0.00
   3   05/24/1999             Satisfactory   Satisfactory                     0.00
   4   12/22/1999             Satisfactory   Satisfactory                     4.00
   5   06/13/2000             Satisfactory   Satisfactory                    22.79
   6   06/15/2000             Satisfactory   Satisfactory                    22.79
   7   12/28/2000             Satisfactory   Satisfactory                    43.65
   8   04/04/2001             Satisfactory   Satisfactory                    54.15
   9   10/19/2001             Satisfactory   Satisfactory                    69.22
   10 12/21/2001              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                    74.41
   11 05/23/2002              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                    84.63
   12 10/24/2002              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                    90.69
   13 05/27/2003              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                   107.40
   14 12/15/2003              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                   111.40
   15 05/20/2004              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                   119.05
   16 11/18/2004              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                   130.01
   17 05/07/2005              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                   142.82
   18 12/03/2005              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                   144.05

 (c) Staff Time and Cost
                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
     Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks  USD Thousands (including
                                                    travel and consultant costs)
 Lending
                     FY97                                                  77.6
              FY98                                                        155.2
 Supervision
              FY99                                                         79.5
              FY00                             32.8                        80.7
              FY01                             13.7                        63.6
              FY02                              9.5                        76.9
              FY03                              4.7                       116.0
              FY04                              2.1                       117.4
              FY05                              2.0                        55.0
              FY06                              0.5                        74.9
              FY07                              0.1                          0.4
             Total:                           65.8                        898.7




                                          36

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                    Ratings         Borrower            Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
                        Satisfactory      Government:       Satisfactory
Entry:
                                          Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                        Highly Satisfactory
                                          Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                        Satisfactory
Performance:                              Performance:




                                        37

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

None.




                                    38

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

None.




                                 39

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

1.1 Project Construction

East China (Jiangsu) Transmission Project was comprised of 11 new 500 kV transmission
lines with a total length of 993 km (including Jiangyin Yangtze River Crossing); 10 500
kV substations with total new transformer capacities of 8,000 MVA original components:
Yangchen substation (s/s), Yangdong s/s, Shipai s/s, and expansion of Wunan s/s,
additional components Longtan s/s, Lianyungang s/s and expansion of Yangchen s/s),
and Nanjin urban 220 kV and 110 kV transmission projects. In order to facilitate
substantial components, ECEPGC and JPEPC signed the principle agreement on
construction of the East China (Jiangsu) 500 kV transmission project , which set up a
new management system, and stipulated the management mode and responsibilities
correspondingly.

The original components were commenced to construction in November 1997 in
succession. All components, except the Yangdong-Doushan line, have been completed
and put into operation from June 1998 to October 2002. Yangdong-Doushan line was
postponed to operation in November 11, 2004 due to the delay of the Yangtze River
Crossing. New additional components were commenced to construction in May 2003,
and put into operation before June 2005. Most of the components were safely completed
with high quality within schedule. Therefore the construction management mode which
we chose for the project was successful.

1.2 Achievement of Outputs

    · Coordinating power transmission from power plants: The 500 kV transmission
       lines of Renzhuang-Huaiyin, Huaiyin-Jiangdu, and Jiangdu-Wunan, which were
       completed and put into operation in 1989-1999, meet the demand of power
       transmission from Yangcheng power plant and Yangzhou No. 2 power plant.
    · Alleviating bottlenecks in power transmission from north to south in Jiangsu
       Grid: The completion of the Yangtze River Crossing increased the loops of 500
       kV corridor from 2 to 4. The transmission capacity was increased from 2,000 MW
       (initial stage) to 4,500 MW, which solve bottleneck problems in power
       transmission from north to south in Jiangsu Grid. In the meantime, it ensured the
       transmission from Lianyungang      (Tianwan) nuclear power units.
    · Increasing import and exchange capacity of Jiangsu power grid.
    · Meet the growing demand of power in the period of the 9th and 10th five-year-
       plan.
    · Increasing inter-provincial power exchange capability.




                                         40

1.3 Power Market

With support from the World Bank and assistance of international consulting company,
the objective of the East China Power Market reform was achieved.

2. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

We agree with your opinion stated in Bank's ICR.

3. Resettlement and Environment

3.1 Resettlement

The ECEPC, JPEPC and the construction company have attached importance to the
resettlement, especially the interests of migrant. We draw up the Resettlement Action
Plan for East China (Jiangsu) 500 kV Transmission Project. In the process of
implementation, we tried our best to reduce land acquisition and resettlement. The
resettlers' living standard has been improved.    According to the requirements of the
World Bank, the work of external supervision and evaluation for the land acquisition and
resettlement was done by the East China Investigation and Design Institute, and the
supervision and evaluation reports on land acquisition and resettlement were submitted
periodically.

The Resettlement Monitoring and Evaluation Report No. 7 has been completed.

3.2 Environment

The ECEPC, JPEPC and the construction company have also attached great importance to
the environment. We implemented an environment plan in accordance with the
Environmental Management Program (EMP), and entrusted National Electric
Environmental Protection Institute to supervise and monitor the implementation and
environmental impact. In the construction period, necessary measures have been taken to
reduce negative effects on environment. The dust, noise, wastewater draining during the
project construction, electric and magnetic field during operation were supervised. The
data and results measured were in compliance with technical specifications.
Environmental Management and Monitoring Implement Report were submitted
periodically.

The    Environmental Management and Monitoring Implementation Report              is in
preparation and will be completed at the end of March 2006.

The implementation and supervision of resettlement and environment under this project
has been supported by specialists from the World Bank and earned a satisfactory
outcome.




                                          41

4. Sustainability

To guarantee reliable operation and maintenance of the project, and to ensure its sustained
benefit, ECEPGC has entrusted local Power Supply Company to be responsible for
operation and maintenance. The specific department of ECEPGC was responsible for
supervision and management. The budget of operation and maintenance will be taken
into ECEPGC annual budget according to its annual plan; the budget is adequate and
guaranteed.

5. Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 The State Planning Commission and the World Bank paid great attention to and
supported the development of East China Grid. They carried out the preliminary work
and furnished approvals of technical and economic evaluation report and feasibility report
for East China (Jiangsu) 500 kV Power Transmission Project in a short time. In the
second half of 1998, the project was listed in the state basic construction plan and some of
the sub-projects started in that year, which played an important role in accelerating East
China (Jiangsu) 500 kV grid construction.

After the reform of state investment system, the East China (Jiangsu) 500 kV Power
Transmission Project was the first large grid project that used a World Bank's loan. The
preliminary work of the project tightly followed the 9th five-year-plan of East
China's three provinces and one municipality and the planning target of 2010. The
technical consultation on power planning and project economic evaluation proved the
necessity and urgency of the project.        The completion and operation of East China
(Jiangsu) 500 kV Power Transmission Project strengthened East China (Jiangsu) 500 kV
grid structure, which not only increased operation reliability of the grid, met the
requirements of Jiangsu economy growth in the 9th and 10th five-year plan period, but
also reached the targets set in the project appraisal.

5.2 Having known it was hard to complete the project as scheduled because of its large
scale, tight schedule, and technical difficulties, the main leaders authorized by ECEPGC
and JPEPC all tried their best to manage the construction schedule.         They signed an
agreement to clarify the responsibilities of both sides, and managed and coordinated the
matters related to the progress, quality, cost, safety, environmental protection, and
resettlement in the whole process. A target of excellent design, excellent construction,
and excellent project was set. Through the hard work of all the units, the subprojects
were all completed successfully within eight years. During the construction, the Jiangsu
government's cooperation and supports in land acquisition, resettlement, labor and local
materials ensured smooth progression of the project. The completion and operation of
East China (Jiangsu) 500 kV Power Transmission Project was not only the result of great
cooperation between ECEPGC and JPEPC, but also the result of hard work between
power trade and relevant authorities in the Jiangsu government.


                                            42

6. Lessons Learned

6.1 The Jiangyin Yangtze River Crossing project was an important component of East
China (Jiangsu) 500 kV Power Transmission Project. Its crossing tower was 346.5
meters high   and   the    crossing  span   was    2,303 meters  long.    Its size  and
technological difficulties could be ranked no. 1 in the world. The World Bank and
domestic authorities paid much attention to the progress of the project during the
construction.

In the bidding process of the crossing tower, the procurement experts of the World Bank
and the purchaser had different opinions on substantial deviations that appeared in
BBCJV's bidding documents. Considering the tight schedule of the project, the
purchaser accepted the World Bank's recommendation and awarded the bid to BBCJV.
But during the contract execution, the delivery time was delayed for one year because of
BBCJV's inexperience in manufacturing and its poor management in technology and
quality control. The general progress of Jiangyin Yangtze River Crossing was badly
influenced. Reviewing the bidding process and contract execution, the following lessons
have been learned:

    · For the manufacture of the special type of crossing tower over 300 meters high,
       the procurement experts of the World Bank lacked estimates on technical
       complicacy, as well as characteristics and problems that might emerge in the
       contract execution. They insisted on awarding the bid to BBCJV, which offered
       the lowest bidding price. They did not make a special investigation and could not
       accept the Purchaser's opinions. The fact proved that the Bank s reviewing
       comments on the bidding evaluation report on the crossing tower were not
       suitable.
    · Facing the complicated situation (such as substantial deviations, manufacture
       experiences, etc.) emerged in the bidding evaluation report, if the procurement
       experts of the World Bank could communicate directly with the purchaser and
       study the solution, it may promote understandings, helped to make positive
       judgments for solving problems, and could also improved the World Bank's
       reviewing efficiency to the bidding evaluation report.
    · For the equipment bidding procurement that had great difficulties and required
       coordination, the procurement experts of the World Bank and the Purchaser
       should analyze and prove the procurement strategy in advance in order to choose
       more a suitable procurement way, avoid contract risk, and ensure the
       implementation of the project.




                                         43

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None.




                                  44

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

1. Summary Report on Implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan of the East China
   (Jiangsu) 500 kV Power Transmission Project of ECGC
2. Summary report on Implementation of the Environmental Protection Plan of the East
  China (Jiangsu) 500 kV Power Transmission Project of ECGC
3. Project Completion Report of ECGC
4. Project progress reports
5. Project files containing full records of project preparation and supervision
   aide-memoires and reports
6. IERR supporting calculations




                                            45

Annex 13. Additional Annexes

13.1 Summary of Resettlement Completion Report

The East China (Jiangsu) 500 kV Power Transmission Project includes three physical
components (500 kV substations, 500 kV transmission lines, and Nanjing Power
Distribution) and 28 subprojects. Among them, 23 required land acquisition and
resettlement. To address the potential impacts and meet World Bank requirements, a
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was prepared during project preparation. The RAP for
the initial scope of the project was prepared in two phases with Phase I covering six
subprojects, and Phase-II covering 18 subprojects. In 2002, to implement cost savings, a
supplemental RAP was prepared that covered four additional subprojects financed by
savings. All three RAPs were reviewed and approved by the World Bank.

Scope of Resettlement

According to the RAPs, the project required (a) acquisition of a total of 121 ha of land,
including 119 ha of rural agricultural land and 2 ha of urban land; and (b) demolition of a
total of 865,647 square meters of houses, with 98 percent in rural areas and 2 percent in
urban areas. A total of 5,127 households and 21,151 persons were to be relocated,
including 360 households and 989 persons in urban areas. The land acquisition and
resettlement would affect a total of 741 villages, 199 townships, and 48 counties in
Jiangsu Province.

By the end of 2005, the land acquisition and resettlement were completed for the 23
subprojects. A total of 94 ha of land were acquired, with 92 ha in rural areas and 2 ha in
urban areas. The acquired land was 22 percent less than projected in the RAP. However,
temporary land occupation was 65 percent more than that in the RAP. A longer-than-
expected construction period and more difficult conditions are the main reasons for the
increase. The demolition of inhabited space was also lower than expected in the RAP
because of refinement of transmission alignments. The demolished houses in rural areas
were reduced by 59 percent, and the numbers of relocated households were reduced by 49
percent. In terms of urban demolition, both demolished spaces and affected households
increased by 9 percent and 11 percent, respectively (Table 1).

Table 1: Change in Scope of Resettlement for Hunan Transmission Project
                 Items                        RAP             Implementation   Percent change
1. Total land acquisition (ha)                 121                  94              -22.
   a. Urban land                                2                    2              -2. 4
   b. Rural land                               119                  92             -22. 6
2. Total building demolition (m2)            856,564             351,775           -59. 3
   a. Urban structures                        14,155              15,473            9. 3
   b. Rural houses                           851,492             336,302           -60. 5
3. Households (persons) affected by
   relocation                             5,124 (21,151)      2,632 (10,039)   -48.6 (-52. 5)

   a. Urban                                  360 (989)          399 (1218)      10.8 (23. 2)
   b. Rural                               4,764 (20,162)       2,233 (8,821)   -53. 1 (-56. 2)



                                               46

Resettlement Policy and Compensation Rates

Following the Land Administration Law of the People's Republic of China and the
Implementation Regulation of Jiangsu Province, compensation rates for various
resettlement impacts were agreed and included in the RAP. Land acquisition was
compensated at Y 13,200 to Y 15,600 per mu (about US$25,000 or US$29,000 per ha) for
tower base, and Y24,000 per mu (about $45,000 per ha) for substations. During
implementation, actual compensation rates matched or exceeded the rates projected in the
RAP. Increases in compensation ranged from 0 percent to 82 percent.

For building demolitions, different compensation rates were set up for urban and rural
areas. For houses in rural areas, the compensation rates were set in the range of Y350-420
per square meter for multistory houses, Y 250-300 per square meter for single-story
houses, and Y120-200 per square meter for simple structures. For houses in urban areas,
different compensation rates were used for different types of buildings. They were based
on the estimated cost for purchasing replacement buildings in Nanjing.              During
implementation, actual compensation rates for both rural and urban houses matched or
exceeded the rates in the RAP. The increases ranged from 0 percent to 44 percent.
Because of the substantial reduction in house and building demolition, the total
resettlement cost of the project amounted to Y444.7 million, about Y66 million or 13
percent lower than the RAP estimate.

Institutional Arrangement

In terms of implementation arrangements, JPEPC, under the leadership of ECPGC, was
responsible for overall management and supervision of resettlement activities. The actual
resettlement implementation was carried out by cities or county power supply bureaus and
selected power transmission construction companies. Resettlement offices were set up in
both JPEPC and all implementation agencies. Each office was staffed with experienced
personnel totaling 78 persons. The managers from ECPGC and JPEPC attached great
importance to resettlement activities in order to ensure smooth implementation of the
RAP and protection of the interests of the affected people. To build institutional capacity,
several resettlement training sessions were conducted for staff from all implementation
agencies. In order to avoid potential conflicts with the RAP, the resettlement office under
JPEPC requested prior review of compensation contracts and supervised their
implementation. All these efforts were considered as best practice in China by the
resettlement thematic mission carried out by the East Asia and Pacific Region
Environment and Social Development Sector Unit (EASES). This particularly applied to
the resettlement documentation prepared for the project, ranging from the RAP to both
internal and external monitoring reports.

Resettlement Performance and Outcomes

Based on comprehensive resettlement monitoring by regular supervision missions and
extensive interviews with local officials and affected people, the resettlement



                                          47

implementation was found to be highly satisfactory. All compensation was delivered to
affected villages and individuals in accordance with the RAP and adequate rehabilitation
measures helped restore and improve the living conditions and livelihood of the affected
people.

For people who lost farmland, economic rehabilitation was based on a combination of
land readjustment and cash compensation. Following land readjustment, the affected
people were able to maintain their per capita land holding at 0.92 mu compared to 1.09
mu per person before land acquisition. In terms of land compensation, most affected
villages decided to save compensation funds in local banks to earn interest to be
distributed equally among all village members. As a result, most of the affected people
were able to restore their income after resettlement. According to a sample of 52
households affected by six substations, the average per capita income increased by 35
percent after resettlement and ranged from 19 percent in Shipai to 74 percent in
Yangdong substations.

For relocated rural households, compensation and rehabilitation were carried out based on
extensive consultation, and most of them were provided with replacement housing plots
within their villages with no access to essential facilities. The adequate compensation and
free housing plots allowed most relocated households to rebuild larger and better quality
houses. According to a sample of 140 households, relocated people increased their living
space by 30 percent on average, and most replacement houses were of much better quality
with improved infrastructure facilities and environment. The relocated households also
increased their incomes by 43 percent on average, from Y2,904 per person before
relocation to Y4,165 per person after resettlement. Most relocated households were very
satisfied with rehabilitation outcomes.

For relocated urban households, they were given either in kind replacement housing, with
a choice of two different locations, or cash compensation based on replacement value to
purchase replacement housing according to their taste. According to the sample of 42
households, most relocated people were pleased with the process and outcome of
compensation and rehabilitation. During supervision missions, special attention was
provided to vulnerable households (the poorest, the elderly, and single mothers) to ensure
that their income was restored and their lives improved. Both rehabilitation approaches
have resulted in considerable improvement in the affected person's living conditions. Per
capita housing space increased by 51.5 percent from 12.6 square meters to 19.1 square
meters. For affected nonresidential structures, the affected parties preferred negotiated
cash compensations. These resulted in compensations amounting to Y4,520 per square
meter for affected work units, and Y3,600 to Y4,000 per square meter for affected small
shops. Both work units and shop owners were pleased with the compensation policies and
rehabilitation outcomes.




                                           48

Conclusions

Overall, the resettlement activities related to the project were implemented in a highly
satisfactory manner and in accordance with the approved RAP. Much of the success was
due to three factors:     (a) the strong commitment of well-established resettlement
institutions from JPEPC down to the city and county power supply bureaus. Also, during
project implementation, management teams in ECEPGC and JPEPC attached great
importance to resettlement activities and were very responsive to Bank suggestions and
recommendations; (b) adequate resettlement training for the implementation agencies. A
total of three resettlement workshops were carried out to improve understanding of Bank
resettlement policies and requirements. To ensure fully compliance with the RAP, JPEPC
even required a prior review of compensation contracts for all subprojects before
implementation; and (c) systematic resettlement M&E efforts. An extensive resettlement
M&E network was established within all implementation agencies to allow corrective
actions in case of complaints and deviation from the RAP to ensure that entitlements were
being delivered to affected people and that the livelihood conditions were restored or
improved. In addition, an experienced external monitoring team was selected to carry out
external M&E. The regular monitoring efforts and well prepared reports reinforced the
communication between affected people and implementation agencies and ensured the
smooth implementation of the RAP. These efforts were also considered as best practice
by the resettlement thematic mission. Frequent supervision and sustained cooperation
between the Bank and resettlement offices improved the implementation agencies'
familiarity with Bank procedures and requirements. This approach has been adopted and
is being applied in domestically funded projects.




                                           49

