Report No. PIC5451
Project Name        China-East China (Jiangsu) 500 kV Transmission Project (+
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Electric Power & Other Energy
Project ID                       CNPE51736
Borrower                         People's Republic of China
Beneficiary                      East China Electric Power Group
Corporation (ECEPGC)
Estimated Project Cost           US$800.00 million
Financing Plan                                            Million US $
IBRD                          250.0
East China Electric
Power Group Co.               110.0
China Construction Bank       220.0
State Development Bank        220.0
Total                         800.0
Project Preparation              July 1997
Pre-appraisal                    October 1997
Appraisal                        December1997
Negotiation                      March 1998
Board Presentation               May 1998
Contact                          Mr. Xu Hang
East China Electric Power Group Co.
201 Nanjing Road (E)
Shanghai, China
Sector and Institutional Background
1.      Large-scale energy development and improvements in the
efficiency of energy supply and use are critical to meet the fast
growing demand, alleviate shortages and mitigate adverse impacts on
the environment in China. China has experienced an annual growth
rate of about 8.3 percent in installed capacity and energy
generated in the period 1980-95. To meet the electricity demand in
the most cost-effective manner, the Government is implementing a
comprehensive strategy of sectorwide institutional reforms, energy
price reforms, and encouraging energy conservation. Consumer prices
for the major forms of energy now largely reflect economic costs. A
well-developed institutional network exists to promote energy
conservation at the central, provincial and local levels. These
measures have helped China achieve a remarkably low 0.86 elasticity
demand growth to GDP growth during 1980-95.



2.      Yet even with further improvements in conservation,
generation capacity must increase by more than 15 GW a year for the
next five years if current shortages are not to become more acute.
For continued efficiency improvements -- not simply in energy use
but in the overall functioning of the sector -- and for the
increased capital mobilization necessary for large-scale power
industry development, China has launched an ambitious program of
power sector reforms. Thus far, progress has been made in sector
decentralization, cost recovery through major tariff reforms, and
diversification of financing sources, including development of a
variety of independent power generation schemes. In the gradual
process of legal reform and sector restructuring, three important
steps have recently been taken, with passage of the country's first
Electricity Law, a decision to abolish the Ministry of Electric
Power and divide its functions among existing government agencies,
and a further decision to create a National Power Company to, inter
alia, represent the state as owner of government-owned power
assets. Furthermore, several joint venture companies have been
established to build power plants in Shandong Province and
Shanghai, while build, operate, transfer (BOT) schemes have been
introduced in Guangdong and Fujian Provinces. The process of
international competitive tendering for projects has also begun
with the Laibin B project in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region,
which will be constructed by an international consortium, and bids
will soon be issued for another project in Hunan Province.
3.      Building on these accomplishments, the Government's future
agenda for action includes: (a) further reforms to the sector's
regulatory and legal framework; (b) further diversification in
financing for power development, including private sector
participation; (c) institutional restructuring via
commercialization and corporatization of power companies, together
with achievement of greater enterprise autonomy and sector
restructuring; and (d) further measures to rationalize power
tariffs. While actions have been initiated on all of the above
fronts, measures to commercialize the power entities are now a
focal point in the overall effort. These measures include
separating the producing entities from the Government, granting
them autonomy in business decision-making, and subjecting them to
market forces in an arms-length regulatory framework.
4.      The Chinese approach to reform encourages experimentation
with different reform options and institutional forms. This gradual
approach permits the Chinese to examine the relevance and
applicability of specific reforms and also to fine-tune reform
implementation for broader dissemination or replication in other
parts of the country.
5.      Accompanying the move to commercialization are efforts to
curb air pollution related to the burning of coal and particularly
to reduce the power sector's contribution to the problem. In terms
of emission control in large and medium-scale plants, China has
made substantial progress in particulate control, through
deployment of high efficiency electrostatic precipitators. The
Government announced in June 1994 that it would spend about $2
- 2 -



billion over the next seven years on an environmental program aimed
at keeping S02 emissions at a level of 15 million metric tons a
year, as part of a comprehensive program of acid rain abatement.
The Government intends also to accelerate the development of
hydropower and construction of large and efficient 300 and 600 MW
coal-fired units to avoid the mushrooming of the small, highly
polluting plants that still constitute about 60 percent of the
additional installed capacity.
The East China Power System - Area of Project Impact
6.      The East China Power Grid        Located in the east coast of
China, the East China Power Grid (ECPG) is the largest inter-
provincial (municipal) power network in China. ECPG covers the
service area comprising the municipality of Shanghai and the three
adjacent provinces of Anhui, Jiangsu, and Zhejiang. The region
occupies a total area of 350,000-sq.km, 3.6w of China, and had a
total population in end-1995 of 187-million, 15t of the population
of China.
7.      By the end of 1996, the total installed generating capacity
was 32.85 GW, of which only 6t was hydro-electric. The balance was
mainly made up by coal fired thermal power plants. For the same
year the peak load was 28.05 GW and total electricity generation
was 174.7 TWh. Some 1.5-GW of curtailments had to be implemented in
the summer of 1996, which was largely caused by (i) insufficient
installation of generation capacities, in particular, peaking
capacities, and (ii) inadequate investment in transmission and
distribution systems to match the expansion of the generation systems.
8.      The first 500-kV transmission lines were constructed in 1987
and owned and operated by ECEPGC. By the end of 1996 the 500-kV
network had expanded to include 3184-km of single-circuit lines
linking 10 substations with a total transformer capacity of 10.8-
GVA. The associated 220-kV networks, currently operated by the four
separate electricity supply authorities of Shanghai and the three
provinces, included 16,217-km of transmission lines and 43.6-GVA of
transformer capacity supplying consumers in the region.
9.      The Jiangsu Provincial Power Grid (JPPG): The physical
investment components of the project are located largely within
Jiangsu province served by the Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power
Corporation (JPEPC). Jiangsu province has experienced a rapid
economic growth over the last 15 years or so. From 1990 to 1995,
the average annual growth rate of GDP of the province was 18.0
percent. For the same period, the average annual growth rate of
energy consumption was 11.4 percent. The forecast peak demand in
2005 will be around 25,370 MW and energy consumption 151 TWh at an
annual average growth rate of 8.7w for demand and 8.0w for energy.
10.     Despite significant addition of new capacities in the
province in the last decade, energy shortages persist because of
the fast economic growth. The major load centers are located in the
southern part of Jiangsu. Due to lack of primary energy resources
and limitations on site conditions, as well as environmental
-3 -



considerations, future demand in this region will mainly be met by:
(i) import of energy from Shanxi province where coal reserves are
abundant but its level of industrialization and rate of increase in
electricity demand is relatively low; and (ii) bulk transfer of
energy from the north to the south within the province because the
northern part has relatively more energy resources and less demand
This is consistent with the national power development strategy to
transfer electricity from areas of surplus to those in deficit.
This planning approach will reduce the burden on the overloaded
railway system as well as avoid pollution loads that exceed local
absorptive capacities in the highly industrialized and densely
populated areas.
11.     The transmission grid in Jiangsu consists of 500 kV and 220
kV substations and lines. The existing transmission network is
experiencing problems of reduced reliability, overloading of major
substations and lines, and higher fault levels at 220 kV systems
exceeding the permitted safe operating ranges. These problems are
mainly caused by an inadequate investment in the transmission
systems required to transmit the new production to load centers.
Most generation projects only have enough transmission capacity to
connect the plant to the nearest point on the system. Reinforcement
of the core transmission system is urgently required
Project Objectives and Description
12.     The Project's development objective is to alleviate critical
bottlenecks in power transmission infrastructure in the East China
region and increase electricity trades on a commercial basis. This
objective would be achieved by:
(a)     developing a reliable 500 kV high voltage transmission
network to facilitate the cost-effective location of generation
capacity and the transport of energy to load centers. This would
help to alleviate an acute shortage of electricity in Jiangsu
province. This transmission network expansion would support the
development of a private power project (i.e. the Yancheng power
plant 6x350 MW in Shanxi province) which would transfer bulk power
from the north to load centers in southern Jiangsu. The would also
serve to develop and strengthen an interprovincial high voltage
grid capable of transferring power from areas where it can be
produced in the most economical and environmentally sound way to
major load centers, mainly located in densely populated areas with
low local absorptive capacity.
(b)     assisting in the development and implementation of a
commercial framework for power exchanges and trade. These capacity
building components will help to increase power trade to improve
efficiency and lower the cost of supply. This will include: clear
definition of the transmission service and the right to transmit
electricity; design of wholesale contracts for electricity
sales/purchases conducive to economic dispatch and operational
efficiency; and, definition of the implementation procedures and
transitional steps. In addition the project will help clarify the
ownership and operating relationship of the East China Electric
- 4 -



Power Group Corporation (ECEPGC) with its subsidiary Provincial
power companies.
13.     The main project components are:
-- Erection of a total of 993 km of 500 kV transmission lines
which include: Renzhuang-Huaiyin (230km); Huaiyin-Jiangdu
(134km); Jiangdu-Wunan (124km); Huaiyin-Yancheng (120km);
Yancheng-Yangdong (135km); Yangdong-Doushan (30km);
Doushan-Shipai (60km); Shipai-Huangdu (50km); Shipai-
Shengpu (60km); line re-routes (50km); and a major river
crossing (3 km).
-- Construction of five new 500/220 kV substations with a
total transformation capacity of 4000 MVA and one
extension (750 MVA) of an existing 500/220 kV substation.
These are Yancheng (750 MVA),Yangdong (750 MVA), Nantong
(750 MVA), Wunan (750 MVA), Shipai (750 MVA), and Shengpu
(1000MVA).
-- Technical assistance for improved inter-provincial power
exchange policies and procedures including transmission
pricing issues.
-- Capacity building for transmission network planning and analyses
-- Technical assistance to improve accounting and financial
management systems
14.     Institutional and implementation arrangements: The
beneficiary, East China Electric Power Group Corporation (ECEPGC),
will be the main executing agency for the project. ECPGC has been
operating the East China Power Grid for more than ten years and has
qualified personnel to undertake project preparation,
implementation and operation. In addition, the JPEPC, one of the
strongest utilities in China will also be involved in project
preparation and implementation. Jiangsu Electric Power Design
Institute (JEPDI) and East China Electric Power Design Institute
(ECEPDI) will undertake preparation of technical bidding documents,
bids evaluation, detailed construction design with the assistance
of international consultants. Project preparation (and future
implementation) is being coordinated by a steering committee
chaired by ECPGC's vice president in charge of overall project
management and coordination, reform and financial issues. The
steering committee consists of members from ECEPGC and JPEPC. The
institutional reform elements of the proposed project will be
supervised by the Ministry of Electric Power (MOEP) and its
successor entities (i.e. State Power Corporation). State Power
Corporation will be responsible for obtaining State Council
approvals on major reform issues. The provincial government
representatives will oversee the planning and implementation of
resettlement.
Benefits and Target Population
-5-



15.     Direct Benefits: The Project would have a marked impact on
the economic development of the East China region. The direct
benefits attributable to the project are: (a) reduction in the
value of lost production due to power rationing in Jiangsu province
from an estimated 16 billion RMB in 1997 to 0.08 billion RMB in
2005; (b) reduction in the amount of available capacity that cannot
be utilized currently due to transmission system overloading from
about 1000 MW in 1997 (4t of total installed capacity) to virtually
zero in 2005; and (c) improvements in quality of supply in terms of
reduced interruptions and recognized but more difficult to quantify
service parameters, such as, frequency, voltage, reactive energy.
16.     The other major benefit of the project is the development and
implementation of incentives for power trade in the East China
region. The development of an improved framework for power trade is
the most important means to achieve increased system efficiency and
introducing competition at the generation level. The clear
separation of the generation costs from the transmission costs will
increase the transparency of power pricing and would allow more
effective regulation of power tariffs. The creation of a regional
power market in east China will be a major milestone in China's
gradual reform approach.
17.     Regional Sector Reform Benefits: From a regional perspective
the Project will also help to clarify the ownership and operating
relationship of the East China Electric Power Group Corporation
(ECEPGC) as the core power enterprise in the East China region with
its Subsidiary Companies: Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company
(JPEPC); Anhui Provincial Electric Power Company (APEPC); Zhejiang
Provincial Electric Power Company (ZPEPC); and the Shanghai
Municipal Electric Power Company (SMEPC). The Government has
decided to make ECEPGC its representative to hold and manage its
equity interests in the above Subsidiary Companies (SC). This
project would help in clarifying the responsibilities of other
Regional Power Group Corporations in China.
18.     Environmental Aspects: (See Annex 1)
19.     Resettlement Aspects: From earlier work on projects where
transmission investments have been required, it has been determined
that a complete resettlement action plan (RAP) cannot realistically
be completed before project negotiation. The nature of transmission
projects are such that most of the detailed routing of the
transmission line and sitting of transmission towers is done in
stages once the project financing is fully secured and the detailed
engineering commences. Resettlement will be undertaken under a two-
stage Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) approach. The first-stage RAP
will specify the resettlement policies and regulations,
institutional arrangements, implementation procedures for all
resettlement actions that would be carried out under the project,
and a preliminary census of affected population. The first RAP will
be completed before the project preparation mission. At the early
stages therefore it is possible to agree on the resettlement
policies and guidelines. In subsequent stages it is possible to
ascertain the actual impact and whether the agreed policies and
- 6 -



guidelines are being followed.
Contact Point: Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 1, 1997.
-7 -



Annex 1
Environmental Aspects
1.      In accordance with Bank OD 4.01 (Environmental Assessment),
the project has been assigned to Category B. International
consultants specializing in environmental issues related to power
transmission will be engaged at the inception of the project to
assist in preparation of environment assessment. The major
environmental issues, relate to safety, noise and fire hazards from
transformers and radiation, and leakage and contamination from
transformer oil or PCB-containing equipment. The implementing
agencies follow internationally acceptable design standards in this
regard. During supervision, compliance with these standards would
be monitored. Tower placement will be made so as to minimize
impacts to farm fields. Lines rates will be selected to avoid
populated centers, especially schools and clinics. Transmission
lines slack will be designed to have sufficient height in order not
to interfere with traffic. No PCBs will be utilized in transformers
to be financed. China banned PCBs from the early 1970s.
2.      The Environmental Assessment Report is expected to be
completed at the time of appraisal and will be available only in
hard copy at the Public Information Center (PIC) at Bank Headquarters.
- 8 -



