Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 1720 1-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$250 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR AN
EAST CHINA (JIANGSU) POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
March 2, 1998
t.nergy and Mining Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit Yuan
Y 1 = US$0.12
US$1 = Y 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1, December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
km     =  Kilometer (= 0.62 miles)
kWh   =  Kilowatt hour (= 860.42 kcal)
MWh  =  Megawatt hour (= 1,000 kWh)
GWh   =  Gigawatt hour (= 1,000,000 kilowatt hours)
TWh   =  Terawatt hour (= 1,000,000,000 kilowatt hours)
kW     =  Kilowatt (=1,000 watts)
MW    =  Megawatt (1,000,000 watts)
kV     =  Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
MVA   =  Megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
VicePresident      Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director :Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager  :Yoshihiko Sumi, EASEG
Task Manager    :Noureddine Berrah, Principal Energy Specialist, EASEG



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APEPC    -    Anhui Provincial Electric Power Company
BOT       -    Build-Operate-Transfer
CAS       -    Country Assistance Strategy
CIF       -    Cost, Insurance, Freight
CRISPP   -    China Reform Institutional Support and Preinvestment Project
EASSD    -    East Asia and Pacific Region, Social Development Sector Unit
ECEPDI  -    East China Electric Power Design Institute
ECEPGC  -    East China Electric Power Group Corporation
ECPG           East China Power Grid
ECPN      -    East China Power Network
EDI       -    Economic Development Institute
EIA(R)   -    Environmental Impact Assessment (Report)
EMP       -    Environmental Management Plan
FMIS      -   Financial Management Information System
GAAP    -    Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
GDP       -    Gross Domestic Product
GIS       -    Gas-Insulated Switchgear
IAS       -    International Accounting Standards
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
IDC       -    Interest During Construction
IERR      -    Internal Economic Rate of Return
IPP       -    Independent Power Producer
JPEPC    -    Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company
LIB       -    Limited International Bidding
MOEP    -    Ministry of Electric Power
MOF       -    Ministry of Finance
NEPA      -    National Environmental Protection Agency
NEPRI   -   National Environmental Protection Research Institute
NO,       -   Nitrogen Oxide
NPC       -   National People's Congress
PAP       -    Project-Affected Person
PIP       -    Project Implementation Plan
RAP       -   Resettlement Action Plan
SAA       -    State Audit Administration
SETC     -    State Economic and Trade Commission
SMEPC   -    Shanghai Municipal Electric Power Company
SO2       -    Sulfur Dioxide
SP        -    State Power Corporation
ZPEPC    -   Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Company






CONTENTS
A: Project Development Objective .................................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators .................................................2
B: Strategic Context .................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .....................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .................................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ..............................................4
C: Project Description Summary .................................................................5
1. Project components .................................................................5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ....................................................5
3. Benefits and target population .................................................................6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .................................................................                                                          6
D: Project Rationale ..................7
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................................7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ......................8
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design .................................................................9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .................................................................9
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .................................................................9
E: Summary Project Analysis ................................................................                                                                                             10
1. Economic ................................................................                                                                                              10
2. Financial ................................................................                                                                                              11
3. Technical ................................................................                                                                                              11
4. Institutional ................................................................                                                                                          11
5. Social ................................................................                                                                                                12
6. Environmental assessment ................................................................                                                                              13
7. Participatory approach ................................................................                                                                                13
F: Sustainability and Risks ................................................................                                                                                             14
1. Sustainability ................................................................                                                                                         14
2. Critical Risks ................................................................                                                                                        14
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .................................. 15
G. Main Loan Conditions .......................                                                                                                                                          15
1. Effectiveness conditions .......................                                                                                                                        15
2. Agreements to be reached with the Government ........................................                                                                                  15
3. Agreements to be reached with the Beneficiary ........................................                                                                                 16
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................................                                                                                                                 17
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .......................                                                                                                                                  17



- ii -
Annex 1: Project Design Summary .....................                                                                              18
Annex 2: Project Description .................                                                                                     19
Annex 3: Summary of Project Costs .................                                                                                25
Annex 4:   Overview  of the Reform  Action Plan ...................................................                               26
Annex 5:  Organization Chart of Construction Management for E,ast China 500 kV
Power Transmission Project .....................                                                                   31
Annex 6: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary .....................                                                                      32
Annex 7: Financial Summary .....................                                                                                   36
Annex 8:   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ..............................................                               43
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ..............................................                   45
Table B: ICB Procurement Schedule ..............................................                                   46
Table B 1: Consulting Services Schedule ..............................................                             46
Table C: ICB Procurement Arrangement ..............................................                                47
Chart 1:  ICB Procurement Schedule ..............................................                                  48
Chart lA: Consulting Service Schedule ..............................................                               53
Table D: LIB, IS &  DC Procurement Arrangement ..............................................                      56
Table E: Consultant Selection Arrangements ..............................................                          57
Table F:  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ........................................ 58
Table G: Allocation of Loan Proceeds ..............................................                                58
Annex 9:   Land Acquisition and Resettlement ..............................................                                       59
Annex 10: Environmental Management Program .63
Annex 11: Project Processing Budget and Schedule .70
Annex 12: Documents in the Project File .71
Annex 13: Status of Bank Group Operations in China .72
Annex 14: Country at a Glance .75
MAPS
IBRD 29052   Jiangsu Power Transmission Project
IBRD 29271   Nanjing Transmission Component



CHINA
East China (Jiangsu) Power Transmission Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
China Department
Date: March 2, 1998                            Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Nourredine Berrah
Country Director: Yukon Huang         Sector Manager/Director: Yoshihiko Sumi
Project ID: CN-PE-51736   Sector: Energy Power    Program Objective Category:
Lending Instrument: IBRD Investment Loan       Program of Targeted Intervention:    Yes   [x] No
Project Financing Data               [x] Loan       Credit        Guarantee            Other
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amoumt (US$ M/SDR M): 250.0
Proposed terms:                          Multicurrency    [x] Single currency (US$)
Grace period (years):   5      Standard Variable    Fixed                 [x]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:  20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: n/a
Financing plan (US$ M):  [ ] To be defined
Source                            Local          Foreign           Total
Government
Cofimanciers
IBRD/IDA                                                    -            250.0            250.0
East China Electric Power Group Corporation              166.4            11.3            177.7
China Construction Bank                                  237.4            16.1            253.5
State Development Bank                                   194.3            13.1            207.4
Other
TOTAL                             598.1           290.5            888.6
Borrower:                  People's Republic of China
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies):
Beneficiary:               East China Electric Power Group Corporation (ECEPGC)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):     1997    1998    1999      2000    2001        2002  2003
Annual           24.21   98.95    103.76    17.06       6.02
Cumulative          24.21  123.16   226.92   243.98      250.00
For Guarantees:                       [] Partial credit   []Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Ternns of financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:          [] Yes            []    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: Expected effectiveness date: September 1998. Expected closing date: September 30, 2004



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The proposed project aims at alleviating critical bottlenecks in power transmission infrastructure and
increasing electricity trade on a commercial basis in the East China region. This objective would be
achieved through: (a) development of a reliable 500 kV high-voltage transmission network to facilitate
the cost-effective location of generation capacity (including a joint-venture independent power producer
in Shanxi) and the transport of energy to load centers; (b) transformation of East China Electric Power
Group Corporation (ECEPGC) into a modem corporate entity; and (c) implementation of a regional
power market for power exchange and trade.
The physical investment, technical assistance and institutional capacity-building components of the
proposed project are designed to improve the system's economic operation and efficiency and ensure that
all economical transactions in electricity can actually take place. The investment components would
serve to develop and strengthen an interprovincial high-voltage grid capable of (a) transferring power
from areas where it can be produced at least cost with minimum environmental impacts to major load
centers; and; (b) maintaining the security of the system and the reliability of service. It will also ensure
an environmentally sustainable development of the sector becaLuse major load centers are typically
located in densely populated and industrialized areas with low pollution absorptive capacity. The
technical assistance and capacity-building components will focus on corporatization and
commercialization of ECEPGC and detailed design and implementation of a regional power market to
increase power trade in East China. The power market will improve operating efficiency and lower the
cost of supply by using existing capacity more optimally and taking advantage of economies of scale.
Project impacts would be monitored according to quantifiable performance indicators developed during
project preparation with the assistance of the Beneficiary. These mainly include the reduction in value of
lost production due to power rationing, reduction in unused generation capacity due to transmission
bottlenecks, improvements in transmission reliability and timely development of a power market (see
Project Design Summary in Annex 1).
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16321 -CHA. Date of latest CAS discussion: March 18, 1997
The project supports the CAS objectives of alleviating infrastructure bottlenecks and increasing
electricity supply within an environmentally sustainable context. It will also strengthen corporate
governance of power enterprises and transform them in modem corporate entities. The project linkage to
the CAS objectives would be achieved directly by the physical (construction of lines and substations) and
institutional (development of a power market, strengthening of governance, improvement of financial
management, and training) components of the project. It will indirectly achieve two other environmental
objectives: (a) construction of larger size generation plants to avoid proliferation of inefficient and more
polluting small plants; and (b) optimum location of generation capacity in less populated and polluted
areas where environmental impacts are lower and more easily mitigated.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Despite the progress achieved during the last decade, China's power sector is still facing the following
issues:



Page 3
(a) Inadequate Financing of Power Infrastructure: Adequate electricity supply in China requires
annual additions of more than 15,000 MW of generation capacity, an investment of about $15-20
billion per year. Despite the government's efforts to develop innovative financing schemes through
joint venture, build-operate-transfer (BOT) and multiple domestic joint-investment projects, the
sector is still facing severe capital constraints and difficulties in channeling domestic savings to meet
the investment needs of the sector. Further efforts are required to broaden and mainstream power
sector financing. Moreover, development of private and nonutility projects is constrained by the lack
of a commercial framework for power trade and the weakness of transmission networks.
(b) Transmission Bottlenecks: Transmission infrastructure in China has not been adequately developed
to allow for efficient system operation and minimization of supply cost: (a) plants are not optimally
located to minimize supply cost and ensure environmental sustainability. For example, some of the
large plants constructed in areas close to load centers, requiring the transport of large quantities of
coal on an overextended transport system, were not economically and/or environmentally justified;
and (b) about half of the added capacity is in small inefficient units (100 MW and less) built close to
the load centers to minimize upfront capital costs and minimize transmission investments. The
transmission bottlenecks continue to contribute to investment inefficiencies (untapped economies of
scale), location inefficiencies (overburdening of the railway system), environmental inefficiencies
(heavy pollution burden on densely populated areas with limited local absorption capacity), and
operational inefficiencies (uneconomic dispatch, higher losses).
(c) Inadequate Wholesale Electricity and Transmission Pricing Systems: There are two significant
shortcomings of the pricing system in the power sector in China. The first relates to the pricing of
wholesale/bulk capacity and energy sales/purchases from generating plants. The second relates to the
inadequate recognition of power transmission as a separate service that needs to be accounted for in
electricity tariffs. The inadequacies of wholesale electricity entail operation of old and/or small and
high-operation-cost coal-fired plants in lieu of modern, more efficient plants. The lack of recognition
of the importance of transmission service hampers utilities' ability to recover costs and invest in
transmission. Both problems are slowing the implementation of the purchasing agency model and
progress toward competition at the generation level.
(d) Unclear Corporate Relationships between Power Sector Entities: Currently, power companies in
China operate at three main levels: provincial/municipal, regional, and national: (a) the provincial/
municipal power companies are responsible for generation and transmission within a province or
municipality; (b) the regional power entities hold the central government's ownership stakes in
provincial power companies in their territory and are responsible for interprovincial power transfers;
and (c) the national power entity holds the central government's ownership stakes in the regional
entities. However, unclear ownership rights and not fully commercial relationships between different
power entities still impede: (a) full corporatization of power entities to meet the requirements of the
new Company Law; (b) financial independence, and profit orientation of the sector entities; and (c)
sector and especially transmission financing. As part of project preparation, initial work has been
started to clarify ownership of assets and operating responsibilities between ECEPGC and provincial
power entities in Zhejiang, Jiangsu, Shanghai and Anhui. This work will accelerate the transition of
the sector toward commercial operation and corporatization under the Company Law.
(e) Heavy Reliance on Coal: China's heavy reliance on coal (especially for power generation) is
expected to continue over the next two to three decades. There is, however, a growing recognition of
health impacts and air-quality deterioration due to extensive coal use. Recently, the Chinese
Government initiated serious efforts to curb air pollution related to utilization of coal in the power
sector. In June 1994, the Government announced that it would spend about US$2 billion over seven
years to keep sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions at 15 million metric tons per year. An SO2 emissions tax



Page 4
(from Y 0.15 to 0.2/kg of SO2) is being experimented in several provinces and municipalities and a
penalty of Y 0.04/kg of SO2 is being applied to all emissions exceeding the 1982 standards in all
provinces. More stringent air quality and emission standards were issued at the national level in
January and March 1996. Several provinces and municipalities followed up with local environmental
regulations. A recently issued regulation in Shanghai requires the use of flue gas desulfurization on
all new coal-fired power plants. However, enforcement and adequate implementation of these
standards require greater attention and continued efforts.
(f) Low Efficiency of Electricity Supply and Use: Improvement in energy efficiency in China is
clearly indicated by the sustained low ratio of elasticity demand to gross domestic product (GDP)
growth of 0.86 during 1980-95. However, the potential for electricity conservation on both the
supply and demand sides is still very high. The government is now promoting programs to reduce
losses on the supply side and market-based initiatives to improve electricity use.
The Government's future reform agenda includes:
At the institutional level:
(a) Dissolution of the Ministry of Electric Power (MOEP) and transfer of its regulatory functions to the
State Economic and Trade Commission (SETC) and its com[mercial functions to the State Power
Corporation (SP); however, this decision is still not confirmed by the National People's Congress. In
parallel, the Government is gradually developing rules to more efficiently regulate the sector;
(b) Corporatization and commercialization of SP, which was established to hold the State's ownership
interest in the subordinate regional and provincial power companies. It is expected that SP will
access long-term international and domestic bond markets for sector financing;
(c) Gradual implementation of regional power markets to facililate economic power exchange, trade
between provincial systems, and competition at the generation level;
(d) Rationalization of power tariffs, particularly at the wholesale generation and transmission levels; and
(e) Continued focus on increasing the domestic and foreign equity participation in newly formed
generation enterprises. (By mid-1997, there were at least 15 power generation plants companies in
China that had been publicly listed in domestic and international markets.)
At the technical/operational level:
(a) Achievement of economies of scale in thermal power production through expanded development of
large and efficient generating units;
(b) Promotion of conservation technologies and introduction of market-based incentives for electricity
conservation;
(c) Development of renewable energy technologies, especially wind power; and
(d) More adequate enforcement of environmental protection standards.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
*  Infrastructure bottlenecks (investment components);
*  Inadequate wholesale and transmission pricing structures (focused technical assistance);
*  Unclear ownership rights and lack of commercial orientation of power entities at the regional and
provincial levels [technical assistance (TA) during project preparation]; and
*  Inadequate financing of transmission projects.
The project will indirectly address the following sector issues:
* Environmental impact due to heavy reliance on coal use by facilitating the development of large and
efficient minemouth power plants to reduce coal transportation



Page 5
* Inadequate location of generating capacity and difficult access of independent power producers
(IPPs) to the system (investment component-connection of the joint-venture IPP in Yancheng/Shanxi
Province to the Jiangsu system by 1999).
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
Project Component               Category     Cost Including    % of        Bank         % of
Contingencies    Total     Financing      Bank
(US$ million)            (US$ million)  Financing
1. Supply and construction of 993 km of   Physical         306.91         34.54       65.80        26.32
500 kV transmission lines
2.Supply and construction of 5 new        Physical         313.56         35.28       148.90       59.56
'500 kV substations and extension with
total added transformer capacity
5,500 MVA
3. Reinforcement of Nanjing urban         Physical          85.21          9.59       28.12        11.25
transmission systems
4. Consulting services for engineering and    Implm. Assist.  7.81         0.88         1.10        0.45
construction management
5. Consulting services for the detailed  Institutional       1.69          0.19         1.69        0.67
design and implementation of power   (Sector Reform)
inarket in East Asia
6. Technical assistance for improved    Institutional        2.25          0.25         2.25        0.90
accounting and financial management  (Sector Reform)
systems
7. 'Management development and training  Institutional       2.32          0.26         2.14        0.85
(Capacity Building)
Interest During Construction                       168.90         19.00
Total                                  888.64         100.00      250.00       100.00
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Subsequent to the establishment of SP in December 1996, ECEPGC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SP,
undertook a reorganization process to become the core power enterprise in the East China region with
four major wholly-owned subsidiary companies: Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company (JPEPC);
Anhui Provincial Electric Power Company (APEPC); Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Company
(ZPEPC); and the Shanghai Municipal Electric Power Company (SMEPC). Technical assistance was
provided during the preparation of the project to clarify ownership and the operational relationship
between ECEPGC and its subsidiaries and to introduce proper accounting practices. Technical assistance
during project implementation will also foster sector efficiency through improved corporate governance,
financial management and greater transparency in corporate relationships. The replication of the model



Page 6
in other regional power group corporations in China will advance corporatization of public utilities and
sector reform.
The project will assist in the development of a power market in East China. This will allow provinces to
engage in voluntary short- and long-term transactions that will further optimal utilization of resources.
ECEPGC will act as a price-based broker for these transactions. This market will begin initial operations
in early 1998 based on informal operating guidelines. During 1993, a formal operating agreement and a
grid code will be developed, and contracts will be negotiated. Operation of the market under formal and
mutually agreed rules will commence in 1999. The implementation of the regional market for electricity
trade and adequate transmission pricing principles will further power sector reforms in China and remove
barriers that impede the progress toward the purchasing agency model and increased competition at the
generation level (see Annex 4).
3. Benefits and target population:
Direct Benefits: The Project would have a marked impact on the economic development of the East
China region. The direct benefits attributable to the project are: (a) reduction in the value of lost
production due to power rationing in Jiangsu province from 8 billion yuan in 1996 and an estimated 16
billion yuan (about 3 percent of GDP) in 1997 to 0.08 billion yuan in 2005; (b) reduction in the amount
of available capacity that cannot be utilized currently due to transmission system overloading from
290 MW in 1996 and an estimated 1,000 MW in 1997 (4 percent of total installed capacity) to virtually
zero in 2005; and (c) improvements in reliability (reduced interruptions) and quality of supply (mainly
stable frequency and voltage). The latter benefits are recognized but more difficult to quantify.
The other major benefit of the project is the development and implementation of incentives for power
trade in the East China region. The development of an improved fiamework for power trade is the most
important means to achieve increased system efficiency and introduce competition at the generation
level. The clear separation of generation costs from transmission costs will increase the transparency of
power pricing and would allow more effective regulation of power tariffs. The progress toward a
regional power market in East China will be a major milestone in China's gradual approach to reforming
the sector.
The project would benefit all power consumers in east China but power consumers in Jiangsu province
are the primary target population of the project
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: Five (5) years, from September 1998 to September 2003
Executing Agency: ECEPGC is the beneficiary of the proposed loan. ECEPGC (formnerly the East China
Power United Corporation) is also the beneficiary of the Tianhuangping Pumped Storage Project (Loan
No.3606 ), which is under implementation and rated as highly satisfactory. ECEPGC has been operating
the East China Power Grid for more than 10 years and has qualified personnel to undertake project
preparation, implementation and operation. Attention was given to the status and structure of the
Beneficiary. Its corporate charter and other constituent documents were reviewed and found satisfactory.
Project Management: ECEPGC is responsible for the implementation of the project in all aspects. It
contracted the design of the project to the East China Electric Power Design Institute (ECEPDI) with the
assistance of international consultants. Construction of transmission lines and substations is entrusted to
the Construction Department of JPEPC. The overall management of the construction would be carried



Page 7
out by ECEPGC through the Jiangsu 500 kV Power Transmission Engineering Office (JPTEO)
established under JPEPC, which will be responsible for construction preparation, implementation,
coordination, supervision of construction scheduling, quality and cost control and financial management.
ECEPDI will also, with the assistance of an international consulting firm, assist ECEPGC in preparing
the technical bidding documents, bid evaluation, detailed construction design and supply of drawings. A
Construction Management and Supervision Agency will be selected to assist ECEPGC in construction
management and subproject supervision, with the assistance of international consultants. Specialized
Management Groups are established under the Director of JPTEO to carry out the day-to-day
construction management activities (see Annex 5). Construction works of the subprojects would be carried
out by specialized contractors selected through local competitive bidding.
Project Coordination: Project preparation (and future implementation) is being coordinated by a
steering committee chaired by ECEPGC's vice president in charge of planning and project preparation.
The Committee is also responsible for coordination of reform and financial issues. The steering
committee consists of members from ECEPGC, JPEPC and design institutes involved in the preparation
of the project.
Project Oversight and Policy Guidance: The institutional reform elements of the proposed project will
be supervised by MOEP and/or SP. The concerned provincial government agencies will: (a) oversee the
planning and implementation of resettlement; and (b) approve tariff increases to fully recover the project
costs.
Ornlending and Auditing Arrangements: The proposed Bank loan of US$250 million will be made to
the People's Republic of China at the Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single
currency loans, with a maturity of 20 years, including a 5-year grace period. Proceeds of the loan will be
onlent from the Borrower to ECEPGC on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan.
ECEPGC agreed to maintain and provide the Bank with semiannual progress report, with unaudited
project accounts to reflect project expenditures for the period under report compared with the original
project cost estimates. Moreover, ECEPGC will furnish the Bank with the audited accounts for the
project, statements of expenditures, and financial statements within six months of the end of each fiscal
year. In this regard, ECEPGC will also implement any changes to its accounting practices as
recommended by the financial management consultants, require the auditors to comply with international
auditing practices and provide an audit plan prior to each audit.
The proposed project will be audited by the representative office in Shanghai of the State Audit
Administration (SAA). This office has prepared audit reports on ECEPGC's accounts in connection with
the Tianhuangping Pumped Storage Project in accordance with Chinese audit principles and standards,
which are generally consistent with international practices.
Finally, ECEPGC will furnish to the Bank by June 1 of each year, a rolling eight-year financial plan
including projected income statements, fund flow statements, and balance sheets.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Tlhe strengthening of the transmission network and construction of the proposed lines and substations is
imperative. Without the project the region's power supply requirements will not be met. To ensure a
minimum level of system stability and reliability, reinforcement of the transmission network is required



Page 8
to cope with the growing demand. System planning and design is based on the "n-i" (i.e., n minus one)
reliability criterion. This implies that the quality of service will remain satisfactory in case of failure of
one of the major element of the transmission system. Removal of an additional element beyond the n-I
criterion will result in unacceptable quality of service, or system collapse.
Two alternatives, termed Eastern and Western, were considered in the development of the transmission
network. The eastern alternative is technically more robust: more balanced power flows and slightly
lower losses. The present value (at a 12 percent discount rate) of its total costs (investment, O&M and
losses) is about 10 percent lower than the western alternative. This difference is due mainly to the
necessity to provide some of the eastern system extensions in both alternatives because of the rapid
development of the economy in the northeastern part of Jiangsu province. The result is not sensitive to
the discount rate. The eastern alternative was found to be the most technically sound and cost-effective
choice. Alternative routes and tower structures of the lines and sites of the substations were considered
during prefeasibility to minimize the costs and resettlement and environmental impacts.
The conditions for private participation in transmission are not yet met in China because: (a)
transmission assets are not completely separated from generation assets and unified under a single entity
(e.g. England and Wales, Argentina, Chile); (b) mechanisms to ensure adequate cost recovery and
efficient expansion of the network are not yet in place; and (c) customer management is not yet fully
commercialized. Furthermore, the project is not being considered for development by the private sector,
as the Chinese Electricity Law allows private sector involvement in generation only.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Latest Supervision
Sector issue                                                                   (Form 590) Ratings
(Identified by                                                 c-completed  (Bank-financed projects only)
number, reference                    Project                     o-ongoing  Implementation  Development
in section B: 3)                                                p-planned   Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Issues: a, c     Tianhuangping Pumped Storage Project                 c           HS            HS
Issues: a,c,d,e  Waigaoqiao Thermal Power Project                     o
Issues: a,c,d,e,f    Tuoketuo Thermal Power Project                   o
Issues: a,c,e,f  Zouxian Thermal Power Plant                          c           HS
Issues: a        Wujing Thermal Power Project                         c           HS            HS
Issues: a,e      Yangzhou Thermal Power Project                       o            S             S
Issues: a,d,e    Zhejiang Power Development Project                   o           HS            HS
Issues: f        Energy Conservation Project                          p
Issues: e        Renewable Energy Promotion Project                   p
Other development
agencies
Issue: f         ADB (TA No.1 867-PRC) Power Subsector Energy
Conservation in Jiangsu Province
Issue: f         ADB (TA No.2789-PRC) Strengthening Demand Side
Management in Guandong and Zhejiang Province
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
(a' Limited and Achievable Power Sector Reform Objectives. Setting specific and achievable reform
goals in the two last projects (Tuoketuo and Waigaoqiao) proved to be more effective and a better-
understood approach by the beneficiaries. It is clear the power sector reform agenda in China is far-
reaching and can be achieved only gradually. It is important to avoid the broad-brush reform
approach, define clear priorities and focus on specific and limited areas of reform in each project.
(b) Better Preparation of Procurement Packages. Procurement of transmission equipment requires
numerous small packages in comparison with generation projects. Each package requires very
specialized technical knowledge. Inadequate procurement management caused significant delays of
project implementation due to noncompliance with Bank Procurement Guidelines and poor quality of
evaluation reports.
A systematic approach has been adopted to handle the procurement tasks under the proposed project.
Learning from recent experience, the Beneficiary: (i) established a procurement management group
within the organization since the inception of the project. This group is part of the project
management team and is responsible of management and coordination of all procurement activities;
(ii) organized a one-week training course on Bank Procurement Guidelines and a study tour to other
Bank-financed projects in China to learn from their experience. Experienced procurement specialists
from the leading tendering companies in China and staff of the Resident Mission assisted in
designing and carrying out the training sessions; and (iii) involved independent international
consultants to improve the quality of the bidding documents and bid evaluations.
(c) Need for Early Government Approval. In the recent Tuoketuo and Waigaoqiao thermal power
projects, delays were experienced in project processing because of delayed internal government
approvals. These delays arose mainly from inadequate counterpart funding sources and delayed
approval of feasibility studies. For the proposed project, the Beneficiary made special efforts to
secure all necessary government approvals before project negotiation.
(d) Cost Recovery in Transmission Investments. In earlier Bank "point-to-point" transmission
projects, beneficiaries encountered problems in recovering investment costs and repaying the loan
because of the absence of an explicit framework for transmission pricing. This project builds upon
recent advances in power sector reform and the emerging recognition of transmission services in
China. Following discussions during project preparation, the central and provincial governments
agreed in principle that project costs will be fully recovered through tariff increases.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Beneficiary's commitment and sense of ownership for the proposed project is very high. The
Beneficiary has been very active in developing the project concept, logical framework for the project
design and performance monitoring indicators. It has, so far, been successful in: (a) securing strong
support from concerned government agencies; (b) mobilizing local funds from financial institutions; and
(c) preparing the necessary technical documentation for project implementation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
World Bank involvement has been critical in addressing the following issues adequately and taking into
account successful international experiences:



Page 10
*  Transmission Network Development: Following lengthy discussions, the State Planning
Commission's approval of the first stand-alone transmission network expansion project is a
significant step in the implementation of the agreed power sector reform strategy. The other projects
involving transmission financing (e.g., Sichuan Transmission, Second Transmission Project, the
transmission component in Tuoketuo Thermal, etc.) were linked to specific generation investments.
*  Design of a Power Market: The project will advance the sector reform agenda by assisting the East
China regional power group in defining and gradually implementing a power market for electricity
trade between provincial systems. The power market will provide the basis for increasing the
economic use of generation facilities in the region and foster the development of an economic
wholesale power pricing structure. The demonstration of benefits from establishing a framework for
voluntary power exchange and trade in China are significant. The East China Group has been
designated by the% Government as a pilot group for developing regionalpower markets in China
*  Institutional Framework for Regional Power Trade: The project furthers an ongoing policy
dialogue to develop and implement wholesale electricity pricing and transmission pricing policies,
which are critical to the implementation of the purchasing agency model. The clear definition of
transmission services, the development of a framework for market-based power trade, and the
development of transmission pricing methodologies, based on full cost recovery, are critical to the
unbundling of the sector and increased competition in generation.
•  Corporatization and Commercialization of Power Sector Entities: The project assists the
Beneficiary in adequately addressing a major aspect of power sector restructuring through the
clarification of corporate and operational relationship between Regional Power Group Companies
and their subsidiary Provincial/Municipal Power Companies. This aspect has a significant
demonstration effect and will certainly advance the thinking about the role of regional power groups
at the national level.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 12)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 6):
[x] Cost-Benefit Analysis : NPV=US$300 million; ERR= 19.1%; [x)I Cost Effectiveness Analysis;
[ ] Other
The strengthening of the transmission network is imperative. Wiithout the project, the power supply
requirements of the region cannot be met. The economic justification of the project is therefore primarily
justified based on a three-step cost-effectiveness approach: (a) justification of the need and timing of the
reinforcement of the 500 kV system using load flow and stability models; (b) economic evaluation of the
technically feasible alternatives; and (c) optimization of the project ,design parameters.
To complement the cost-effectiveness approach, a cost-benefit analysis was carried out and yielded an
internal economic rate of return (IERR) of about 19 percent. A risk analysis, taking into account
uncertainties related to five risk variables (investment cost, energy flow through the 500 kV system,
transmission price, commissioning date, exchange rate), was also carried out and yielded an expected
IERR (based on the wighted average of 3,000 simulations) of about 17 percent (with a standard deviation
equal to 3 percent). The probability of the expected IERR to be lower than the 12 percent discount rate is
4 percent.



Page 1 1
2. Financial (see Annex 7): NPV=US$85.6 million; FRR=14.6%
Cost Recovery: The financial rate of return for the proposed project is estimated at 14.6 percent and the
average return on the net fixed assets built under the proposed project is estimated at 7.6 percent based
on prices agreed by the Pricing Bureau of the Jiangsu Provincial Government and determined as follows:
*  Prior to the retirement of domestic debts (from 2000 to 2009): full debt service requirements; O&M
cost (including depreciation not used for debt repayments); taxes related to the proposed project; and
an annual return of not less than 15 percent on the funds invested by ECEPGC for the proposed
project.
*  After retirement of domestic debts (from 2010 to the end of the life of the project): full debt service
requirements for the Bank loans; O&M cost (including depreciation not used for debt repayments);
taxes related to the project; and an annual return of not less than 10 percent on the net fixed assets of
the proposed project.
The average tariff increases over the life of the project were estimated in three cases (Base Case, Low
Demand and No Growth) and range from: 1.2 fen/kWh (base case) to 2.3 fen/kWh (no growth).
The proposed project is expected to generate tax revenues in a total amount of about $643.2 million
equivalent during the project life, of which $10.2 million are duties, $40.9 million VAT, and $592.1
million income taxes. Based on a discount rate of 12 percent, the net present value of the tax revenues
generated by the proposed project is estimated to be $161.9 million, of which $9.7 million from VAT
and $145.9 million from income taxes.
Assessment of ECEPGC's Financial Situation: The project team reviewed ECEPGC's financial
system, including accounting standards and internal control policies, and the accounting arrangements
for management of the proposed project and found them satisfactory. ECEPGC's accounting and
financial units are adequately staffed. Technical assistance and training provided under the proposed
project will upgrade ECEPGC's financial management capabilities, introduce modern financial practices
aind strengthen the financial and accounting staff skills.
3. Technical:
The project has been designed and will be implemented according to internationally accepted technical
criteria and standards. The technologies involved are proven, adapted and well-mastered by Chinese
utilities, especially ECEPGC. International consultants will assist in reviewing the design, preparing the
bid documents and controlling the construction of the lines and substations. They will be more
extensively involved in the design of the Yangtze river crossing, the most technically challenging
component of the project.
The cost estimate of the project reflects end- 1996 prices and is based on the latest international tendering
information available for similar procurement and work. Physical contingencies (5 percent for foreign
costs and 10 percent for local costs) and price contingencies (based on Bank assumptions) are adequate.
4. Institutional:
ECEPGC's ability to implement the project is demonstrated by the ratings of the Tianhuangping Pumped
Storage Project (Loan No.3606-CHA). It has the technical and managerial capabilities to successfully
caLrry out the project.



Page 12
To strengthen the institutional and managerial capabilities of ECEPGC and its subsidiary JPEPC, a
comprehensive technical assistance and training program is included under the proposed project and
described in details in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). The program, initiated during project
preparation, include technical assistance and training in: (a) power transmission planning to both JPEPC
and ECEPGC, (b) development and implementation of modern aLccounting and financial management
system; (c) development of an incentive framework and institutional basis for resource pooling and
increased power trading between provincial systems; and (d) engineering and construction management.
The agreed procurement and disbursement arrangements are presented in Annex 8.
5. Social:
For complex transmission network development projects, like the proposed one, detailed engineering,
routing of the transmission lines and siting of substations are carried out in stages. It is therefore not yet
possible to identify the sites from which resettlement will be required for the later phases of the project.
The Beneficiary has completed a first-stage Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) including a preliminary
census of affected population, the relevant resettlement policies and regulations applicable to the
resettlement, the institutional arrangements and implementation procedures governing all resettlement
actions to be carried out under the proposed project; and detailed resettlement action plans for the project
components to be started in 1998. The second-stage RAP and any unforeseen resettlement associated
with the project will be carried out according to the policy and procedures established in the first-stage
RAP.
A first-stage RAP, addressing issues raised during preappraisal in November 1997, was submitted to the
Bank on December 15, 1997. It was revised to incorporate EASSI)'s comments and resubmitted to the
Bank on January 20, 1998. EASSD carried out a full review of the first-stage RAP and found that
resettlement needs of the population affected by the project are well analyzed and the mitigating
measures of social impact are adequate. It cleared the first-stage RAP on January 21, 1998. A second-
stage RAP will be submitted to the Bank for approval following thte completion of detailed engineering
studies of the remaining components but prior to commencement of resettlement actions related to the
second-phase components (December 31, 1998).
The proposed project would require: (a) acquisition of 1,307 mu (about 87 ha) of land; and (b)
demolition of 875,963 m2 of houses in rural and urban areas. It will affect 592 farmers due to land
acquisition and physical displacement of 5,436 households or 20,650 persons. A more detailed
description of the resettlement scope is provided in Annex 9.
Minimization of the scope of resettlement was and will continue to be a high priority throughout the
planning, design, and implementation of all components of the project. Where land acquisition and
demolition of existing housing are unavoidable, the agreed-upon resettlement policies provide for
replacement of housing, alternative employment opportunities, infrastructure, services and other required
resources to improve, or at least restore, the living conditions and income of the project-affected persons.
Special attention was given to the most vulnerable groups (househclds headed by women, senior people
and the poorest households).
In order to effectively implement the first- and second-stage RAPs, resettlement offices were established
at the provincial, local city/county and power supply bureaus levels. To strengthen the resettlement
offices' implementation capabilities, a Resettlement Policy and Implementation workshop was organized
with the assistance of EDI during November 24-28, 1997 for staff involved in resettlement activities.



Page 13
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category    []A   [xJ B   [I C
In accordance with OD 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) the project has been assigned a Category B
status by the World Bank, and an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has been prepared by the
Beneficiary. Even though a formal Environmental Impacts Assessment (EIA) was neither required by the
Bank or the Chinese National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA), ECEPGC prepared one in
collaboration with NEPRI and an international consultant. The EMP was prepared in strict accordance
with World Bank requirements based on the EIA.
Both the EIA and EMP have been reviewed by the World Bank, and it was concluded that all
environmental aspects are satisfactorily addressed and in compliance with all Chinese and World Bank
environmental regulations, policies and procedures. The project has been designed and will be
irnplemented in accordance with modem concepts of environmental management. Consequently, the
project should cause minimum disturbance to the human and natural environment. As part of the EMP, a
monitoring program (see Annex 10) has been prepared to assure sustained integrity of the mitigation
program.
K.ey environmental issues which were considered in the development of the EMP included:
o During construction: Loss of agricultural output from movement of men and equipment to
construction sites. Increased burden on local infrastructure from labor force, and management of
vegetative wastes produced during land clearance.
* During operation: Electromagnetic field (EMF) impacts on human health, noise (from corona
discharge), water body crossings and proximity to wetlands, traversal of transportation (road, rail,
water) corridors, migratory bird paths, loss of agricultural land, and waste discharges at substations.
Poly chlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are outlawed in China and are prohibited from use in this project.
Chief mitigation measures incorporated into the project design included:
* Runoff management and road alignment during the construction phase, and appropriate routing of
transmission lines and siting of substations, as well as proper design considerations (height, spacing,
right-of-way) for transmission towers, and substation noise control.
* Annex 10 provides details of the issues, associated mitigating actions and monitoring requirements,
and actions required under the EMP to strengthen ECEPGC's institutional capabilities.
* Environmental issues associated with the project and addressed in the EIA and EMP included all
concerns expressed by affected parties in a series of 30 public meetings held specifically to address
environmental aspects of the project (see "Participatory Approach" discussion below).
* All mitigating measures are designed to meet appropriate Chinese requirements and/or World Bank
guidelines, whichever is stricter. In the absence of either, international standards or codes of practice
will be used.
7. Participatory approach:
(a) Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: The primary beneficiaries of the project are the
power consumers in Jiangsu province. However, the project will benefit all power consumers in the
East China system.



Page 14
(b) Other key stakeholders (villages and persons affected by the project): During the EIA
preparation, 30 meetings were held to inform the affected villages and persons about the
environmental issues associated with the project and to discuss the measures to mitigate them. All
concerned environmental, cultural, and academic institutions have been consulted and collaborated
in designing the environmental mitigating measures.
In the process of formulating resettlement policies, developing RAPs, and carrying out resettlement
implementation, special attention was given to consultation with affected communities and people. In the
project feasibility phase, the project office consulted extensively with local governments, local people's
congresses, nongovemment organizations, and individuals with regard to the site selection of substations
and transmission line corridors. All affected villages and individuals were consulted during the
resettlement planning phase, the census and social surveys. Numerous meetings were held with affected
people and local officials on compensation policies and rehabilitation measures. About 30 percent of the
relocated households were interviewed by the Bank/Chinese project team. Their concerns and opinions
have been incorporated in the first-stage RAP.
In addition, serious efforts will be made to inform the resettlers about resettlement policies and their
entitlements. A resettlement information booklet, including main contents of the RAP, compensation and
entitlement policies, and grievance procedures described in Annex 9, will be distributed to project-
affected persons (PAPs) prior to resettlement implementation. Furtler consultation with affected people
will be ensured by resettlement institutions during implementation and supervision of the project.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The financial sustainability of the project is ensured by the agreements provided by the Pricing Bureau of
Jiangsu Province to ECEPGC/JPEPC to increase the power tariff in Jiangsu Province to fully recover the
project cost. It has been confirmed that ECEPGC's cash position is adequate and cash flows are
sufficient to cover the self-financing requirements of the project. Two major (a policy and a commercial)
banks provided written commitment to ECEPGC to finance the remaining local costs.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column of nnex 1):
Risk                                             Risk Rating Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective" -
Delays in the construction of the transmission line would:  N  Ensure adequate resources and attention is paid to:
(a) decrease the reliability of the system:                 (a) project management
(b) require the curtailment of load resulting in economic   (b) procurement
losses                                                   (c) local finance mobilization and management
(c) trigger take-or-pay commitment penalties with IPPs
(i.e. Yancheng power plant in particular)
Delays in the construction of the Yancheng power plant  M   The critical power plants are under construction.
and other plants would result in:                        Ensure that adequate contracts in place to penalize
(a) underutilization of the transmission system; and,       generators for delays in implementation.
(b) increase load curtailment in the system



Page 15
Risk                                                Risk Rating Risk Minimization Measure
Changes in Government commitment to market-oriented     M      Effective dialogue at the level of the Country
economic policies, which could impact the introduction of      Assistance Strategy (CAS).
market pricing for power and transmission services
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Inadequate procurement resources, slow procurement      S      (a) establish a procurement group within the
decisions                                                          organization of the implementing agency from the
inception of the project
(b) provide training on Bank Procurement Guidelines
(c) establish systematic approach and working
procedure for the procurement group
(d) involve international consultants in preparation of
the bidding documents and bids evaluation
Delays in resettlement implementation due to (a) delays in  M  (a) advance the preparation of an executable
approval of resettlement budgets; (b) resettlement cost           resettlement plan with assistance of experienced
overrun, and (c) lack of coordination                              resettlement specialists who have worked in a
number of Bank-financed projects
(b) provide adequate contingencies for resettlement
costs
(c) strengthen the resettlement implementing agency
at the provincial level.
Changes in Government commitment to implement a more    M      Continuation of policy dialogue and agreement on
efficient framework for wholesale power pricing, power         basic framework of measures to be implemented in
pricing and power trade                                        conformance with the government's reform strategy.
Foreign exchange risk                                   M      Outside of project scope (Government committed to
avoid fluctuations of currency as much as possible).
Overall Risk Rating                                     M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects: None
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions
Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and ECEPGC, satisfactory to the
EBank, would be conditions for loan effectiveness.
2'. Agreements to be reached with the Government:
T'he Borrower will ensure that the proceeds of the loan are onlent to the Beneficiary under a subsidiary
agreement on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan, and that the Beneficiary bears the foreign
exchange risk.



Page 16
3. Agreements to be Reached with the Beneficiary:
Financial Performance
(a) ECEPGC shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenue and expenditure shows
that the estimated internal cash generation would provide a debt service coverage of no less than 1.5
times at all times; and
(b) ECEPGC shall: (i) enter in an agreement with JPEPC, satisfactory to the Bank, pursuant to which
JPEPC shall agree to compensate ECEPGC for the total cost of transmission of power to JPEPC
under a formula calculated using principles satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) cause JPEPC to increase
its tariffs annually in amounts at least sufficient to make such payments to ECEPGC. The principles
in determining the compensation payable by JPEPC to ECEPGC shall be:
*  Prior to the retirement of domestic debts (from 2000 to 2009): full debt service requirements;
O&M cost (including depreciation not used for debt repayments); taxes related to the proposed
project; and an annual return of not less than 15 percent oni the funds invested by ECEPGC for
the proposed project.
*  After retirement of domestic debts (from 2010 to the end of the life of the project): full debt
service requirements for the Bank loans; O&M cost (including depreciation not used for debt
repayments); taxes related to the project; and an annual return of not less than 10 percent on the
net fixed assets of the proposed project.
Financial Reporting, Monitoring, and Auditing
(a) maintain and provide the Bank with semiannual progress reports, with unaudited project accounts to
reflect project expenditures and original project cost estimates for the implementation period;
(b) furnish to the Bank audited accounts for the project, statements of expenditures, and financial
statements within six months of the end of each fiscal yeair; implementing any changes to its
accounting practices as recommended by the financial management consultants to meet international
accounting standards; and require auditors to comply with international auditing practices and
provide audit plans for each audit; and
(c) by June 1 of each year, furnish to the Bank a rolling eight-year financial plan containing projected
income statements, fund flow statements, and balance sheets.
Power Sector Reform
(a) carry out the reform implementation according to the timetable agreed with the Bank and outlined in
Annex 4 and detailed in the "Initial Market Design for East China Power Network" (ECEPGC,
November 1997).
(b) carry out and complete technical assistance programs for improved interprovincial power exchange
policies and procedures to develop new guidelines and procedures for power exchange and trade by
April 30, 1998.



Page 17
Institutional Building
(a) carry out the organizational restructuring and financial management systems studies according to the
schedule agreed with the Bank; and implement the recommended organizational improvements, and
accounting and financial management systems, taking into account Bank comments;
(b) implement the recommended improvements in the network planning according to the study
completed under CRISPP, taking into account Bank comments;
(c) carry out the management development and training programs as agreed with the Bank.
Environment
Carry out the Environmental Management Program in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Resettlement
Carry out the resettlement program in accordance with the agreed stage-one RAP; prepare the stage-two
RAP following completion of the detailed engineering studies for remaining components of the project
no later than December 31, 1998 and carry out the resettlement programs as agreed with the Bank.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[x] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [ ] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[x ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G): stage-two RAP
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]    This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[I    [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Manager. oui eddine Berrah
-a&roashihiko Sumi
.0ountry D



Page 18                                                              ANNEX I
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Narrative Summary                Key Perfornance Indicators                        Monitoring and Evaluation        Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:         I .  Reduction in value of lost production due to power   I  Provincial government statistics.  I .  Other barriers to growth removed
Infrastructure constraint removed to  rationing in Jiangsu Province (billion yuan)                                  2.  Productive sectors are optimally
ensure sustainable economic                 1996      1997      2000       2005                                         developed
development and transform state-             8         16        1.5       0.08
owned enterprises into modem
corporate entities.                                     _
2.  Reduction in non used capacity on Jiangsu Power    2.  Utility statistics-JPEPC &  3.  Generation capacity is maintained
Grid, due to transmission overloading and network  ECEPGC                          and developed according to
constraints in MW (given that generation projects are                             industry practice.
built on schedule)                                                            4.  System is maintained and
1996      1997      2000       2005                                         operated in accordance with
290       1000       190      10                                           industry practices
3.  Development and Implementation of modern financial
and accounting system by end-2001.
Project Development Objective:                                                                                      (Objective to Goal)
Develop a reliable 500 kV        1.  Monitor improved reliability of transmission  1.  Utility statistics-JPEPC &   1.  Continued Governnent
transmission system in Jiangsu       network                                           ECEPGC                           commitment to reform at the
Province to increase power imports and  1.1 Faultsl 100 kn/year on 500-kV system                                        macro level
estabhsh an open power market in East                 1997      2000       2005                                     2.  Lower voltage level are optimally
China Region                                          0,09      0.06       0.05                                         developed to ensure reliable
1.2 Unserved Energy due to Transmission outage at                                 supply to end users
the 500 kV level (GVWh)
1996      1997      2000       2005
120       400       80        5     _
2.  Monitor increase in power imports to Jiangsu power   2.  Utility statistics-JPEPC &  3.  Yancheng and other power plants
grid:                                            ECEPGC                           put into operation on schedule
1997      2000      2005
MW        0         700        5,100
GWh       0         3,330      21,700
3.  Increase in power exchamge within East China Group  3.  Utility staidstics-JPEPC &
1997      2000      2005        ECEPGC
MW        1,500     3,000      4,500
Gwh       4,500     9,000      13,500
Outputs:                                                                                                            (Outputs to Objective)
I.   Strengthening of the 500 kV  1. I Length of lines Added (in kIn):             I .  Site inspection, and        I.  Transmission system is
transmission network in East                     1997      2000      2005         commissioming documentation      constructed according to schedule
China's Jiangsu Province.                        0          718       993                                          and maintained and operated in
1.2 Transformer capacity added (in MVA):                                              accordance with good imdustry
1997      2000      2005                                          practice
0          1,500     5,500
2.                                . a)                                             2.  Monitoring and supervision of TA 2.  a)
a) Design and implementation of price  - January 1998-interim price based market begins trial    and policy dialogue    Continued commitment to power
based power market in the East   operation with ECEPGC as power broker. Trial                                      sector reform of relevant
China regional power network.    operation of price based power market from January                                governmental agencies.
1998-April 1999
b) Clarification of ownership of    - Technical assistance for preparing formal operating                          b)  New guidelines and policies are
transmission assets and          procedures for price based market to be completed by                              approved and implemented
relationship between ECEPGC      April 1999
(holding company) and          - Formal operation of the price based power market to
provincial power compames        commence in April 1999.
(affiliates) in East China  b)
completed                      - 6/1998 evaluation of assets completed
- 12/1998 clarification of assets and corporate
relatonships.
3.   Capacity for transmission   3.  Selection of planning software and implementation in 3.  Monitoring and supervision of    3.  Hardware and software
network planning and analysis   preparing plannig studies                         software stdection, training of  maintained and operated in
developed                      - Computers and software installed-December 1998  transmission network planners     accordance with industry
- 10 staff trained December 1998.                 and utilization of software in   practices
future planning



Page 19                                 ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Introduction
The East China Electric Power Group Corporation (ECEPGC) owns and operates the 500 kV
transmission system that supplies electricity to the municipality of Shanghai and the three adjacent
provinces of Anhui, Jiangsu, and Zhejiang. The project is located in Jiangsu province where electricity
demand grew at more than 10 percent from 1991 to 1997 and is expected to continue to grow at about 8
percent annually during the next decade. To meet the increasing demand, four major power plants with a
total capacity of 5,000 MW will be added to the provincial system by the year 2000 (including one large
IP]? minemouth coal-fired power plant located in Shanxi province) and, the existing 500 kV system will
be expanded to interconnect the existing and future power plants and provide a reliable supply.
The existing 500 kV single-circuit line, which transfers energy from the north of the province to the
south where the major load centers are located, is operating at the limit of its capacity. ECEPGC is
experiencing major operating problems in terms of system stability, safety and reliability. Investment in
the, 500 kV system is therefore urgently needed to reinforce the power grid within the province of Jiangsu
to ensure that: (a) the new and renovated generating stations can be integrated economically and reliably
with the existing systems, and (b) the growing demand in the south and east coastal areas of Jiangsu
province will be served.
This project is concerned primarily *with the planning, design and construction of new lines and
substations to reinforce the East China/Jiangsu 500 kV power transmission system. The project
encompasses five components: physical expansion of the transmission system, consulting services for
engineering and construction management, consulting services for sector reform, technical assistance for
improved accounting and financial management systems, and management development and training. A
description of each component is provided in the following sections.
1.    System Expansion
1. 1' New 500 kV Transmission Lines (US$306. 9 million)
The first expansion component covers the planning, design, supply and construction of approximately
993 km of 500 kV transmission lines. It involves the construction of nine new lines and the expansion of
three existing 500 kV transmission lines. The primary goal of the expansion plan is to strengthen
transmission facilities that cross the plains north and south of the Yangtze River, which flows from west
to east. A new long-span (2.3 km) transmission crossing of the Yangtze River is a major element of this
segment of the project. The transmission lines included in the project are given in Table 1.
One 500 kV line already exists from Renzhuang, through Jiangdu and crossing the Yangtze, to Doushan.
A second line of 516 km will be built under this project in the same corridor. The southern terminal of
this line will be at a new substation currently under construction at Wunan.
To supply the growing demand on the eastern side of the province, a second 285 km transmission
corridor will be developed east from Huaiyin, through Yancheng and Yangdong and crossing the
Yangtze, to Doushan. In the southern part of Jiangsu, 192 km of transmission will be constructed for the
purposes of connecting the new substations at planned industrial areas of Shipai and Shengpu, as well as
reconfiguring the system for greater reliability and economy (see Map 29052).



Page 20                                          ANNEX 2
Table 1: Transmission Line Segmients
Line Name                            Length (km)     Remarks
Renzhuang - Huaiyin No.2                230      Single circuit
Huaiyin - Jiangdu No.2                  134      Single circuit
Jiangdu - Wunan No.2                    124      Single circuit*
Extend Jiangdu - Doushan to Wunan        28      Single circuit
Huaiyin - Yancheng                      120      Single circuit
Yancheng - Yangdong                     135      Single circuit
Yangdong - Doushan                       30      Single circuit*
Doushan - Shipai No.2                    60      Single circuit*
Shipai - Huangdu No.2                    50      Single circuit*
Shipai - Shengpu                         60      Single circuit*
Tap Pingyao - Doushan through Wunan      2x6     Double circuit
Tap Doushan - Huangdu through Shipai     2x5     Double circuit
Total Length                         993
v Part of the line will be double circuit.
Conductors and Insulators. The transmission lines will use four-bundle conductors per phase and an
earth wire with optical fiber cable for protection and communication. For all but major river crossings
and other special conditions, 400 mm2 aluminum conductors will be used at the maximum operating
temperature of 700 Celsius, at which there is no risk of loss of strength due to annealing of the steel core;
each circuit will have thermal rating of about 2,500 MVA. For the highly loaded lines and for the long-
span river crossings, 630 mm2 aluminum conductors will be used with a thermal rating of 3,200 MVA at
a maximum temperature of 700 Celsius.
Jiangsu province is highly industrialized and some areas are highly polluted. To avoid pollution-related
problems on insulators, creep distances of at least 28-mm/lkV, root mean square (rms) line-to-ground
voltage will be used as minimum design for both suspension and tension string. The insulators to be used
are given in Table 2. The letter W  in the insulator designation indicates a fog type, X  alone is for
porcelain insulators, and LX indicates glass.
Table 2. Line Insulation
Type                       No. of Strings    Insulators/String    Creep Distance (mm/kV)   Mechanical Strength (kN)
Suspension Insulators
XWP-16 Fog                      1-2             26-28                20-25                   160-kN
LXHP-16                         1-2             26-28                27-29                   160-kN
Composite                      1-2                1                  20-24                   178-kN
Tension Strings
XP-16                           4               32-37                20-23                   160-kN
LXP-16                          4               32-37                22-26                   160-kN
XP-30                           2                34                   25                    300-kN
LXP-30                          2                34                   25                    300-kN



Page 21                                    ANNEX 2
Steel Towers. Attempts have been made to use guyed structures but the greater right-of-way required
increases the difficulties of land acquisition. This has deterred the use of this type of structure. In most
locations a "cat-head" tower will be used with the center conductor raised above the two outer
conductors so that the spacing of the lower conductors and, hence, the width of the right-of-way is
substantially reduced. The types of towers to be used are described in Table 3.
Table 3. Tower Types and Design Spans
Name              Designation         Height            Span          Tower Weight
(m)              (m)              (tons)
Cat-head Suspension           ZM               30-42            480-600          9.4 -15.8
Srnall-angle                   ZJ              30-33             470               18-25
Span-over                      KT              45-54             550              25-30
Tension                        JT              24-27             450               19-40
Double-circuit Suspension     SZT              33-51            500-550            35-51
D-cct Tension                 SJT              24-36            400-500            70-90
The Long-Span Crossing of the Yangtze River. Two double-circuit line will be provided for the
Yangtze crossing, the second circuit for future expansion of the transmission system. The crossing will
consist of two tension towers and two very tall suspension towers (about 300 m) to provide 56 m
clearance over the navigable waterway, 6 m above the 50 m statutory clearance required. In view of the
extra height of the two suspension towers, the design will be based on a higher wind velocity of 37 m/s
but with the same ice accumulations as the normal design. To minimize the risk of conductor galloping,
smooth-bodied conductors will be used and special spacer-dampers will be employed to reduce aeolian
vibration. The cross-section in each of the four aluminum conductors will be at least 630 mm2. Aircraft
warning markers will be installed on the overhead ground wire and warning lights on the suspension
towers.
1.2    New 500 kVSubstations (US$313.6 million)
This phase of expansion encompasses the planning, design and construction of five new 500 kV
sulbstations and the expansion of two existing 500 kV ones. The project also includes installation of all
associated protection, and communications equipment.
For reliability considerations as well as limitations on transport of heavy equipment to the sites, the main
transformers will consist of three single-phase units each a 525/43-230/43 kV autotransformer with a
35 kV tertiary winding. The selection of reactive compensation (switched shunt capacitors and reactors)
at individual substations will be guided by the load-flow studies.
Thie new substations proposed are:
* Yancheng, with one main transformer rated 750 MVA. The 500-kV switchyard will have two
500-kV modules, one with three breakers for the line from Huaiyin and the main transformer. The
second module will contain only two breakers to connect the line to Yangdong. The 220-kV
switchyard will contain eight bays, one for the main transformer, one transfer breaker, and about six
outgoing lines. Load-flow studies indicate a need for four 45-MVAR banks of shunt reactors for
voltage control at light load and four 40-MVAR banks of switched capacitors to provide voltage



Page 22                                 ANNEX 2
support in the event of the loss of the line from Huaiyin and to accommodate longer-range load
growth.
*  Yangdong, with one main transformer of 750-MVA capacity. The 500-kV switchyard will have
three modules, one with three breakers for the line from Yancheng and the main transformer, one
with two breakers for the line to Nantong, and the third with two breakers for the line to Doushan.
The 220-kV switchyard will be similar to that at YancherLg with eight breakers. The reactive
compensation will also be similar to that at Yancheng.
*  Nantong. This station will also consists of one 750-MVA transformer. A single module of 500-kV
switchgear with three circuit breakers will connect the incoming line from Yangdong and the main
transformer. The 220-kV switchyard will be similar to those at Yancheng and Yangdong. Due to the
long lengths of the 500-kV transmission lines in the northern sector of the province, the same
reactive compensation will be required at this station as at Yancheng and Yangdong.
*  Shipai. This station will contain five modules of 500-kV switchgear one of which will be provided
under the Changshu No.2 power plant project. One module with three breakers will connect the new
second line from Doushan and the new line to Shengpu. The second module with two breakers will
connect the existing line from Doushan. The third module will contain three breakers, one provided
by the generation project, to connect one of the lines from Changshu No. 2 and the new line to
Huangdu. The fourth module, all part of the generation project, will contain two breakers for the
second line from Changshu No. 2. The fifth and last module will contain three breakers to connect
the existing line to Huangdu and the main 750-MVA transformer. The 220-kV switchyard will
consist of about eight bays, one for the transformer, one for the transfer breaker, and some six for
outgoing lines. At least three banks of 45-MVAR shunt reactors will be needed to control voltage at
light load. One bank of capacitors will at least be required for peak load conditions as early as 2000,
so a full quota of four banks is recommended.
*  Shengpu. The transformer at this station will be 1,000-MVA capacity. One module of 500-kV
switchgear with three breakers will connect the incoming line from Shipai and the main transformer.
The 220-kV switchyard will be similar to the one at Shipai. For voltage control, four banks of
capacitors each 40-MVAR will be required to support voltage during outages of 500-kV lines. At
least two banks of shunt reactors are required.
Extensions at the existing Wunan and Dongshanqiao 500-kV substations consists of a second
750-MVA transformer at each station and associated switching, protection, and reactive power
compensation facilities.
1.3.   Reinforcement of Nanjing Urban Transmission System (US$85.2 million)
Investment in the transmission and distribution systems in Nanjing (capital of Jiangsu) over the last
decade has not kept pace with the increase in consumer demand. The municipal power grid, as a result, is
experiencing overloads on a number of substations and lines, excessive losses and reduced reliability.
These conditions are particularly prevalent in the center of the city.
To ensure adequate supply, it is necessary to expand the 220-kV itransmission system toward the center
of the city to provide great support of the underlying subtransmission and distribution facilities supplying
the consumer loads. These investments are needed to ensure that the power transmitted over the 500-kV
system can be efficiently transmitted to the distribution networks in a manner that will conform with
accepted standards of quality of supply. The proposed components include the following items:



Page 23                                 ANNEX 2
(a) Construction of two new 220-kV substations at Xiaguan and Daxingong,
(b) Construction of two new indoor 11 O-kV substations at Xuanwumen and Shanghailu,
(c) Erection of 10 km of 220 kV line from Dongshanqiao to Longshan, and
(d') Installation of telecommunication and automation facilities at the Nanjing Municipal dispatching
center.
Xiaguan substation is to be equipped with one 180-MVA, 220/110/1 0-kV transformer and Daxinggong
su,bstation with two 180-MVA, 220/110/1 O-kV transformers. In association with these substations, about
10 km of 220 kV single-core XLPE cable will be installed.
Xuanwumen indoor substation is to have two 50-MVA, 110/10-kV transforners, and gas-insulated
s-witchgear (GIS). Shanghailu indoor substation will have the same configuration as Xuanmumen. In
total, about 6.6 km of 1 10 kV single-core XLPE cable will be installed to connect these two stations to
their respective power source points.
2.    Implementation Assistance-Consulting  Services for Engineering and Construction
Management (US$7.8 million)
Consulting services will be carried out by local and international consultants in two stages: Stage 1,
review of design, bidding document, and bid evaluations; Stage 2, assistance in engineering and design
interface coordination and construction management. The international consultants have been selected
through competitive bidding. Stage 1 is financed by a China Reform Institutional Support and
Preinvestment Project (CRISPP) Bank credit for a total amount of $528,000. Stage 2 will be financed
from the proposed IBRD loan. Consulting services will cover 500 kV facilities, including the Yangtze
river crossing.
3.    Technical Assistance for Improved Interprovincial Power Exchange Policies and
Procedures (US$1.7 million)
The technical assistance for improved interprovincial power exchange policies and procedures is
designed to develop an incentive framework and institutional basis for resource pooling and efficient
power trading between provincial systems. This work will begin by examining the existing pricing
policies and operating procedures for scheduling power transactions between provinciallmunicipal
systems in East China. The technical assistance will help the power entities in the East China region
develop an improved institutional structure and the associated pricing and operating incentives to
improve overall system efficiency.
4.    Technical Assistance for Improved Accounting and Financial Management Systems
(US$2.3 million)
The technical assistance for improvement of accounting and financial management systems will be
accomplished by engaging international consultants to assist in developing a suitable financial
management system for ECEPGC as a holding company based on the new structure of power industry in
China. The subjects to be covered will include cost accounting, performance evaluation, and financial
planning, as well as the development of financial management information system (FMIS) which will
include design, procurement, and installation of required software and hardware and training of ECEPGC
personnel.



Page 24                                ANNEX 2
5.    Institutional Development and Training (US$23 million)
The technical assistance to enhance transmission planning capability is designed as a follow-up of the
East China Transmission Planning Study (A Master Plan Study) financed out of CRISPP funds. This
component will be financed through the proposed IBRD loan. The selection of consultants has been
initiated. Its major objective is to enhance the planning capability of ECEPGC given the perspective of
increased power exchange and trading in the region. This will be achieved mainly through extensive
training and seminars, and the procurement and installation of required hardware and software for power
system planning and analysis developed under the ongoing study.
The management development and training program is designed to enhance ECEPGC's managerial,
legal, technical and financial capabilities to meet the needs of the new structure of the power sector in
China. The main objectives of the program are to enable ECEPGC to function as a holding company in
order to more efficiently manage its business, finances, assets and production and develop its electricity
market and human resources. Under this program, a total of 323 staff members will be trained either in
China or abroad, totaling 393 staff-months. ECEPGC will be responsible for planning and organizing the
training program with the approval and support of concerned Chinese authorities.



Page 25                                        ANNEX 3
ANNEX 3: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Description                        Local   Foreign   Total     Local   Foreign    Total    Foreign as
-------------(Y million)------------  --------------($ million)--------------   % of total
'orks
I.Preparatory Works                 11.80           11.80        1.42              1.42       0
2.Land Acquisition and Resettlement
(a) Transmission line            309.42          309.42       37.28             37.28        0
(b) Substation                   192.50          192.50       23.19            23.19         0
3 Civil Works
(a) Transmission line            571.27           571.27      68.83             68.83        0
(b) Substation construction      244.40          244.40       29.45             29.45        0
(c) Substation Installation      187.20           187.20      22.55             22.55        0
4.Construction Management
(a) Transmission line             130.45          130.45      15.72             15.72        0
(b) Substation                    179.10          179.10      21.58             21.58        0
Equipment & Materials
1.Equipment & Materials
(a) Transmission line             596.25  482.46  1078.71      71.84     58.13  129.96       44.73
(b) Substation                    133.49  838.81   972.30      16.08    101.06  117.14       86.27
(c) Communication & Automation     11.00  257.05   268.05       1.33     30.97   32.30       95.90
(d) Nanjing Urban Transmission     90.03  210.36   544.19      10.85     25.34   36.19       70.03
Services
1. Engineering Services             48.40    8.30    56.70      5.83       1.00    6.83       14.64
2 Technical Assistance
(a).Financial & Accounting system         16.60    16.60                 2.00    2.00      100.00
(b).Reform                                12.45    12.45                 1.50    1.50      100.00
3. Training                          1.30   15.77    17.07       0.16      1.90    2.06       92.38
Total Base Cost           2.706.61 1,841.80 4,548.41   326.10    221.90  548.00       40.49
Contingencies
Physical                          320.85   94.91   415.76      38.66     11.44   50.09      22.83
P'rice                            455.09  363.56   818.64      20.00     16.67   36.66       45.46
Taces and Duties                    781.89          781.89      84.99             84.99
Total Project Cost        4,264.44 2,300.27 6,564.71   469.74    250.00  719.74       34.74
Interest During Construction La   1,066.00  336.00  1402.00    128.40     40.50  168.90       24.00
Total Financing Required    5,330.44 2,636.27 7,966.71  598.10    290.50  888.6       32.70
/a  Interest during construction (IDC) is based on onlending rates for projected disbursements of loan proceeds. The foreign
currency portion of IDC is based on the Bank's variable loan rate..



Page 26                                ANNEX 4
ANNEX 4: OVERVIEW OF THE REFORM ACTION PLAN
Background
East China Electric Power Group Corporation (ECEPGC) is the regional power group company in the
East China region. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of the State Power Corporation of China (SP) and the
Beneficiary of the proposed World Bank East China (Jiangsu) Transmission Loan.
ECEPGC operates most of the 500 kV network in the East China region and coordinates the power
exchanges between its subsidiary companies: Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company (JPEPC);
Anhui Provincial Electric Power company (APEPC); Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Company
(ZPEPC); and the Shanghai Municipal Electric Power Company (SMEPC). Following a decision of the
State Council, the subsidiary provincial/municipal power companiies are currently being reorganized to
become wholly (or majority)-owned subsidiaries of ECEPGC. Diversification of ownership within the
subsidiary provincial and municipal power companies is being; implemented through stock-market
listings of generation companies and joint-venture companies for electricity generation. This has been
initiated in the region under the Waigaoaqiao Bank-financed project with the forthcoming listing of
generation plants owned by SMEPC.
The State Council has also decided on the dissolution of the Ministry of Electric Power (MOEP) and the
transfer of its regulatory and policy functions to existing govermnent agencies at the national level.
However, implementation of this decision requires approval of the National People's Congress (NPC).
The provincial and municipal power companies are vertically integrated utilities, owning and operating
generation, transmission and distribution assets. All provinces and the Shanghai municipality have
significant amounts of independent generation. It is expected thaLt all provincial/municipal companies
will separate generation from transmission and distribution, and evolve toward a single-buyer structure.
For example, SMEPC has already obtained approval from MOE]P to unbundle all generation from its
transmission and distribution operations, and develop power transactions based on negotiated contracts.
The principal functions of ECEPGC include:
(a) Asset Management Function: ECEPGC is the state-designated equity owner of the subsidiary
provincial and municipal power companies. It prepares a consolidated statement of accounts for all
the subsidiary companies. The subsidiary companies are independent entities that have financial and
management autonomy.
Preliminary work to clarify asset ownership and consolidate financial statements of ECEPGC and its
subsidiaries in accordance with International Accounting Standards was initiated during the
preparation of the proposed World Bank Project. Further work to improve the financial reporting and
management procedures will be carried out during project implementation.
(b) Owner of the Interprovincial Grid: ECEPGC is the direct owner and operator of the East China
Power Network (ECPN). ECPN is the largest 500 kV transprovincial power network in China.
(c) Coordinator of Interprovincial Power Exchanges: The Presiident and Vice Presidents of ECEPGC
and the Presidents of the provincial or municipal companies form a management committee. The
management committee meets annually to discuss and decide the scheduled amount and prices for
interprovincial power exchange.



Page 27                                 ANNEX 4
(d) Responsible of East China Generation and Network Expansion Plan: ECEPGC supervises and
coordinates the generation and network expansion plans of the provinces and the Shanghai
municipality. ECEPGC then submits the overall East China generation and network expansion plan
to MOEP/SP for review and approval.
Reform Objectives and Principles
Recognizing that there are significant barriers to efficient power production and exchange in the region,
ECEPGC is initiating a reform process to create a pilot regional power market. The principles for reform
include:
(a) Organizational and administrative separation of state regulatory functions concerning price and
market oversight from the operating responsibilities of power sector companies.
(b) Implementation of a price-based and increasingly competitive market for all power transactions
between power producers and bulk power purchasers and/or consumers.
(c) Facilitation of voluntary power trade and exchange between market participants.
(d) Economic dispatch to ensure optimal use of resources and minimization of systemwide energy
production costs.
(e) Recognition of transmission as a distinctive service priced on the basis of transparently determined
costs.
(f) Gradual separation of generation and transmission functions in the East China system to avoid any
transactions between related entities that could disadvantage independent generators.
Reform Implementation Steps
Biased on the reform objectives and principles, and with due consideration to existing institutional
constraints, ECEPGC has, in consultation with the relevant entities, developed a sequence of concrete
reform actions that will be undertaken over the next three years. These reforms represent major initial
steps toward the creation of a fully competitive power market in East China. These reforms can be
classified into three major areas that are to be implemented in parallel.
1.    Phaseout of Mandated Power Exchanges
From January 1, 1998, ECEPGC will begin a three-year phaseout of the government-mandated transfers
of energy between provinces at administered prices (i.e., state catalog prices). Currently, around
3.35 TWh of quota energy is transferred from Anhui and Jiangsu to Shanghai and Zhejiang at state-
mandated catalog prices. From the year 2000 onward, mandatory exchanges at the catalog price will be
phased out and all transactions will be based on voluntary market-determined and negotiated prices.
The prevalence of state-mandated quota power exchanges has created an institutional impediment to
increasing power trade between provinces. Consequently, the elimination of these mandated exchanges
represents a significant step in removing an institutional barrier to power trade. East China is pioneering
this reform to eliminate a practice prevalent in the Chinese power sector.
ECEPGC has obtained approval from MOEP to proceed with the phaseout plan.



Page 28                                  ANNEX 4
2.    Power Market Development
Recognizing that the development of a fully competitive spot market for electricity will require gradual
building of the necessary institutional capacity among all market participants and oversight agencies,
ECEPGC has defined a staged implementation plan. In the first phase, ECEPGC will implement a price-
based market with limited competition. This reforim phase will comnmence in January 1998. Competition
will be limited to sales and purchases of electricity between provincial power systems. In the subsequent
phase, competition will be expanded to include sales from individual generating entities into the market.
A fully competitive system will emerge with unbundling of generation from transmission within
provincial systems and deepening of the reform. This project will focus on the initial phase of market
transformation leading to the successful operation of ECEPGC as an energy broker for competitive
interprovincial power transactions.
Figures 1 and 2, respectively, illustrate the market arrangements in the first phase with competition
limited to trade between provincial systems and the subsequent phase with competition expanded to
include bids by individual generation entities.
The screening and design process by which ECEPGC evaluated options for market development and
decided to implement the limited-competition price-based energy broker market is described in
ECEPGC's "Initial Market Design for East China Power Network" (November 1997) available in the
project file. To implement this market arrangement over 12 months starting April 1998, ECEPGC will
undertake the detailed design and required documentation for the power market, with the assistance of
consultants when necessary.
Implementation of Phase 1:
From January 1, 1998, ECEPGC will adopt interim market arrangeiments for voluntary wholesale trading
of electricity between provincial and municipal power networks. Currently, these transactions are based
on administratively determined prices. In contrast, under the interim market arrangement, wholesale
power transactions will be based on prices that are mutually agreed between provincial networks.
Transactions can be for annual, monthly, weekly, daily and hourly contract amounts. ECEPGC will
coordinate these transactions to ensure system stability and security. A ceiling price will be defined by
ECEPGC in order to limit unfavorably high prices during times of shortages. This price ceiling has been
deemed necessary in the short term owing to the prevailing situaLtion of capacity deficits during peak
times in the East China regional network. Government approval has been obtained to implement this
market arrangement. The East China system is the first regional power network where voluntary market
transactions will be initiated. This represents a major step in the region's power sector reform.
This interim market arrangement will be in place during a test period from January 1998 to April 1999.
From April 1999, ECEPGC will be constituted as a price-based energy broker for energy trade between
provincial systems. More specifically, the market transactions will be based on formal documentation
and procedures: agreed market operation rules, bidding procedures, a grid code, price settlement
mechanisms and negotiated contracts.
Initially, despite having hourly trades, metering constraints will restrict different hourly price
settlements. ECEPGC is currently upgrading the metering capabilities and it is expected that, by July
2000, all hourly transactions can be metered, leading to an full-fledged hourly spot market.
The advantages for this phased market reform strategy are threefold. First, the establishment of ECEPGC
as a price-based energy broker for interprovincial trade will remove existing institutional constraints to



Page 29                                   ANNEX 4
market-based transactions by phasing out power exchanges based on administered prices. Second, the
tendency of provinces to promote provincial self-sufficiency in generation, which is restricting
efficiency, will become gradually irrelevant. Third, with more experience and increasing levels of
comfort and trust with the market arrangements, the amount of power traded in the market will expand.
As provinces continue the process of unbundling generation, similar to ongoing restructuring in the
Shanghai power system, the transition to the expanded competition with individual generators bidding
into the market will emerge.
Notwithstanding this progress, important institutional constraints to increased trade and efficiency still
remain. Specifically, the continued use of a one-part tariff for generation. It is expected that market-
based transaction will increase the pressure to speed the implementation of two-part generation tariffs.
Thie implementation of efficient two-part tariffs has already been initiated in new generation facilities.
The Bank-financed Tianhuangping pumped-storage plant will operate on the basis of a two-part tariff.
3.     Formation of a Cost Center for Transmission Operations:
The responsibilities for transmission network operations and maintenance in ECEPGC are
presently dispersed among different departments and internal units. Although it is possible to estimate
the total costs of transmission system operation and dispatch, there is no formal accounting basis to
allocate these costs and manage them. It is expected that with increasing market-based operation of the
500 kV network and the energy broker functions to be performed, ECEPGC will need to create its
transmission operations as a well-defined cost (or profit) center. Detailed work to develop a clear
financial and organizational transition to this mode of operation will be developed under the accounting
and financial study to be undertaken under the proposed project.
ECEPGC will at a minimum restructure its transmission operations as a cost center by the end of year
2000. It is expected that profit center operations may commence before this date.



Page 30                                                ANNEX 4
Price Based Energy Broker for Competitive Inter-Provincial Transactions
ECEPGC Market Broker
>          '.  *'-,.S~~~A.' 44 
Figure 1             T--Negotiated transaction between
provincial system
B-Bids & Schedules for annual, seasonal,
monthly, weekly, daily and hourly energy
Price Based Energy Broker with Competition in Generation
ECEPGC Market Broker                    _      _     _
*             *                     -     
. \ GSB *  ;           .                             GSB
Figure 2            T-Negotiated transaction between
provincial system
B-Bids & Schedules for annual, seasonal,
monthly, weekly, daily and houriy energy
GSB - Supply bid by generator



A 1kYTU1VY  T -.4W   P.  4" A ILTVWr  A PrEIVA T1LIT f       4 A ThrU, eI'M7  r4 1TC4r,y"Td"rriTUI-%T  IM A IkT A d"1Tr7MTLArf¶,1k                '1I'
AfNINEXA :5: ORG k.AIZN1IAT I IUIN %-  Ml UrF C5NSTRUTiON MVIANAGEMENT FOr "n
EAST CHINA 500 KV POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Jiangsu 500 kVPower Transmission Engineering Office                                                       ECEPDI
Design Team
Construction                                                                Director
Management &
Supervision Agency
| Transmission |  | Substation    Jiangyin River     Planning and     Procurement        Cost &                                Foreign
Line         Management          Crossing          Program         & Contract        Financial         Safety             Consultant
Management                         Management        Management       Management       Management       Management
......... ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    ..    .......  .     ... ......... ...._
-u
ID
Huaiyin Power    Yancheng Power    Taizhou Power    Yanzhou Power    Nantong Power            Nanjing Power        Changzhou         Wuxi Power         Suzhou Power
Distribution Co.   Distribution Co.   Distribution Co.   Distribution Co.   Distribution Co.   Distribution Co.       Power         Distribution Co.   Distribution Co.
Distribution Co.
Construction Uni   Construction Unit  Construction Unit   Construction Unit   Construction Unit   Construction Unit   Construction Unit   Constrction Unit   Construction Unit
Subprojects      Subprojects        Subprojects        Subprojects        Subprojects        Subprojects        Subprojects        Subprojects         Subprojects
(Contractors)     (Contractors)   (Contractors)   (Contractors)   (Contractors)   (Contractors)   (Contractors)   (Contractors)    (Contractors)
-Renzhuang to      -Yanehen s/s       -Yangdong s/s      -Huaiyin to       -Nantong s/s        .Nanjing           .Wunan s/s         -Yangdong to       -Shipai s/s
Huaiyin No.2                                             Jiangdu line                          Components    |   Jiangdu to          Doushan line      -Shengpu s/s
line              -Huaiyin to        -Yancheng to                                                                 Wunan No.2        -Doushan to        -Shipai to Shengpu
Yanchen line      Yangdong line                                                                Line               Shipai line        line
Jiangdu to        -Jiangyin          -Shipai to
Doushan line tap   river crossing     Huangdu line
into Wunan s/s                      -Doushan to
-Pingyao to                           Huangdu line tap
Doushan line tap                     into Shipai s/s
into Wunan s/s 
Om



Page 32                                 ANNEX 6
ANNEX 6: COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS SUMMARY
Economic Justification
Role of the 500-kV Transmission System
The electricity and load requirements in Jiangsu Province, one of the fastest-growing provinces in China,
are expected to more than double from, respectively, about 70 TWh and 11 GW in 1995 to 151 TWh and
25 GW in 2005.
To meet these requirements in the most effective and environmentally sound manner, the Jiangsu
Province Electric Power Company (JPEPC) plans to: (a) build large minemouth generating stations in the
northern part of the province; (b) increase power imports from coal- and hydro-endowed provinces in
north and central China; and (c) improve the use of existing resources in East China through increased
power exchanges with neighboring provinces.
The primary role of the proposed 500-kV project is to carry power in bulk to load centers (market areas)
in the industrialized south and eastern parts of the province as the demand grows beyond the capacity of
the 220-kV system.
The proposed economic evaluation is based on this primary role, even though it is recognized that the
project will (a) contribute to improved scheduling of large efficient plants and the integration of the
Tianhuangping hydroelectric pumped-storage plant, when commissioned; and (b) improve the reliability
and quality of power supply through improved ancillary services (especially better frequency and voltage
control) and "sectionalization" of the 220-kV network to reduce the fault-power level and the impact of
failures.
Cost Effectiveness
The strengthening of the transmission network is imperative. W'ithout the project, the power supply
requirements of the region cannot be met. Therefore, its economic justification is primarily based on a
three-step cost-effectiveness approach.
(a) Justification of the need and timing of the reinforcement of the 500 kV system using load flow and
stability models: (i) technical studies showed that with only existing and committed projects in
service by the year 2000, the system operation conditions are totally unsatisfactory, especially in the
heavy-load eastern part of the province; (ii) several reinforcement options have been considered to
ensure satisfactory operation under normal conditions and failure of one major element of the system
(n-I criterion); and (iii) stability studies were carried out to ensure that the shock imposed by a fault
would not destabilize the system and reinforcements are then aclded, if required;.
(b) Economic evaluation of the technically feasible alternatives: (i) the studies led to two technically
feasible options, the eastern and western alternatives; (ii) both alternatives meet the reliability and
stability criteria with a slightly (but not significantly) higher load and energy losses in year 2000 for
the western alternative; and (iii) the operation and maintenance costs are comparable but the net
present value of the investments required over the five-year project implementation period is 10
percent lower in the case of the eastern alternative; and
(c) Optimization of the design parameters: (i) the tower structure has been selected to minimize the
impact on cultivated land; (ii) in new transmission corridors, the conductors were selected for



Page 33                                       ANNEX 6
optimum long-term economy; (iii) foreign consultants were hired to ensure that full advantage is
taken of the latest developments in foundation and structural design to minimize the cost of the river
crossing; (iv) for all proposed substations, transformer sizes were selected to minimize investment,
operation and maintenance costs.
This approach ensures that the proposed project is cost-effective. All reinforcements of the transmission
system were justified by careful studies involving planning (load-flow and stability analyses) and
optimization of design parameters to ensure that the required quality of service would be provided as
economically as possible.
Cost Benefit Analyses
(In millions of yuan, 1997)
Present Value of Flows                     Fiscal Impact
__________________   Economic Analysis      Financial Analysis         Taxes            Subsidies
BerLefits                     7,185                8,416              52.25 (Duties)
80.28 (VAT)
Costs                         3,925                7,498            1,211.35 (Income Tax)
in 1997 yuan
Net Benefits:                 2,490                  710.40         1,343.88
IRR:                             19.1%                14.59%       (Total in Present Value)
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
To complement the cost-effectiveness approach, a cost-benefit analysis was carried out based on the
following assumptions: (a) all prices were converted at the official exchange rate at the time of
preappraisal (Y 8.3/$s1.0), assuming that trade distortions are negligible; (b) domestic costs were shadow-
priced using specific conversion factors for different types of equipment (insulators, conductors, ...)
materials (cement, steel, ...) and labor (skilled and unskilled) resulting in an aggregate ratio of economic
to financial costs of 0.73; (c) costs of imported goods were prices at border prices (CIF); (d) the benefits
are calculated taking into account the incremental power sales valued at the average covenanted tariff for
500-kV transmission services; and (e) all cost and prices are expressed in 1997 yuan, discounted at 12
percent.
The covenant tariff increase has already been approved in principle by the provincial government and
would not affect the consumers' willingness to pay because the increase is relatively low and the project
will greatly improve the reliability and quality of supply. The recognized but difficult to quantify
benefits (improved reliability, more stable voltage and frequency, ...) were not considered in the cost-
benefit analysis.
Thie calculation yielded an IERR of about 19 percent.
The IERR would be equal to the base discount rate of 12 percent if: (a) the project cost were 63 percent
higher; (b) the incremental sales or the covenanted tariff were 39 percent lower; or (c) the completion of
the project is delayed by five years.



Page 34                                ANNEX S
To implement the above deterministic analysis, risk analyses were performed to estimate the expected
IERR using the Monte Carlo simulation technique. The selected variables, the assumed value ranges, the
probability distributions for the risk variables and the results, based on 3,000 simulations, are graphically
presented on the next page. The results of the analysis are summarized as follows:
Expected IERR               17.13%
Standard deviation           2.99%
Minimum IERR                 8.49%
Maximum IERR                28.15%
The probability of the expected IERR to be lower than 12 percent is less than 4 percent.
Detailed analyses are provided in the report "Economic Evaluation on East China (Jiangsu) Transmission
Project" and electronic files prepared by the Beijing Economic Economic Research Institute of Water
Resources and Electric Power (in project file).



Page 35                                                     ANNEX 6
Risk Analysis Summary for IERR Calculation
Risk Analysis Summary for IERR Calculation
Risk Variables Report                          Results Report
Risk Variable No. I               Cumulative Distribution of IERR
60%                            Investment Cost
50%                            Probability distribution:
40%                            FVTh11%160%I1s%  %                 100% --
30%                             o  .901 0.951 1.ool 1.05 1.10     10         
30%                             1 1 11-
10%        D -                                                     80% -        iI
0% +   1    ln                                                  n 
0.90    1.00    1.10 _60%  -                                                               _
Risk Variable No. 2                40%                           ___       _
40% -                          Energy flow (500 kV)
30%                            Probability distribution:           20%
20%                              5%   15%125%140%110%1 5%
10%  *   |  ||         ~~~~~0.701 0.801 0.901 1.001 1.10| 1.20  0% ~           
10%{
1J 1     D                                                   o0%     6%     12%    18%    24%    30%
0%
o   o
Risk Variable No. 3
60% -                          Transmission Pice
Probability distribution:         Frequency Distribution of IERR
40%                                                  10 %5 %  50% 1 h0°h    5%
20%                              0.8010.90 1.001 1.101 1.201 1.30
iJJJJ l l | |   2                                             0.18
0%    l                                                           0    I16
|   °o  o    °        l                                  |  0.16
Risk Variable No. 4             |0.12
80% -                          CommissioningDate                    0.1 |.
60%                            Probabilitydistribution:            0.08
|  40% t    |            | i 1 5%  70%  20%1  5%
40%              2                l ll T  I0.891 1.001 1.121 1.25  0.06 r
20%
0%                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.04
0%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|Co   0o           N                                            |0.02|
I   o   _                                                        c 1                               co
Risk Variable No.5                            _    -    '           N    N    N
40% -                          Exchange rate (RMB4)
30%                || -     |Probabilifty distribution:
ll20%                         10%1 20S1025% 40%   5%
2I % T     IIlI          I 1        .060107014.80ol  olls
10%t,llII
0% 4J..4LIi
0.60   0.80    1.05



Page 36                                ANNEX 7
ANNEX 7: FINANCIAL SIJMMARY
Financial Viability at Project Level
The incremental financial benefits for the proposed project are calculated based on prices accounting for
full cost recovery and a return on investments agreed between ECEPGC/JPEPC and the Pricing Bureau
of the Jiangsu Provincial Government. The required annual tariff increases will be determined by
ECEPGC and JPEPC and confirmed by the Provincial Pricing Bureau on an annual basis, taking into
account the following principles:
*  Prior to the retirement of domestic debts (from 2000 to 2009): full debt service requirements; O&M
cost (including depreciation not used for debt repayments); taxes related to the proposed project; and
an annual return of not less than 15 percent on the funds invested by ECEPGC for the proposed
project.
* After retirement of domestic debts (from 2010 to the end of the life of the project): full debt service
requirements for the Bank loans; O&M cost (including depreciation not used for debt repayments);
taxes related to the project; and an annual return of not less than 10 percent on the net fixed assets of
the proposed project.
The financial rate of return for the proposed project is estimated at 14.59 percent.
Base Case: Based on the latest investment cost estimates, operating costs derived from historical records
(3 percent of net fixed assets value) adjusted according to domestic inflation rates, prevailing interest
rates and exchange rate, and assuming that electricity sales in the :Fiangsu Provincial Grid will grow from
the anticipated 1999 level of 66,900 GWh by 7.2 percent a year during 1999-2005, 6 percent a year
during 2006-10, 5 percent a year during 2011-15, and 4 percernt a year during 2016-20 as currently
projected, the average tariff increases would be as follows:
From 2000 to 2009, prior to retirement of domestic debts:      1.577 fen/kWh
From 2000 to 2017, prior to retirement of all debts:           1.301 fen/kWh
From 2000 to 2020, during the project life:                    1.213 fen/kWh
Low-Demand Scenario: Based on the same parameters as above and assuming that the electricity sales
in Jiangsu will grow at 3 percent a year from the anticipated 1999 level of 66,900 GWh during the
project period of 20 years, the average tariff increases would be as follows:
From 2000 to 2009, prior to retirement of domestic debts:      1.940 fen/kWh
From 2000 to 2017, prior to retirement of all debts:           1.740 fen/kWh
From 2000 to 2020, during the project life period:             1.655 fen/kWh
No-Growth Scenario: Based on the same assumptions as above, and assuming that electricity sales will
stay at the anticipated 1999 level of 66,900 GWh, the average tariff increases would be as follows.
From 2000 to 2009, prior to retirement of domestic debts:      2.293 fen/kWh
From 2000 to 2017, prior to retirement of all debts:           2.288 fen/kWh
From 2000 to 2020, during the project life period:             2.256 fen/kWh



Page 37                                 ANNEX 7
The sensitivity analyses would not be very meaningful in this case because the pricing is based on the
regulated-cost-plus approach. As a result, the (covenanted) rate of return is not sensitive to either the
chaLnges in costs or the fluctuations in electricity sales.
Financing Plan
The total financing requirements [including interest during construction (IDC) of $168.9 million
equivalent] are estimated at $888.6 million equivalent. The foreign exchange required for the project cost
estimated at $250 million will be financed by the proposed Bank loan. Twenty percent of the total
financing requirement, about $177.7 million equivalent, will be financed by ECEPGC's self-generated
funds. The remaining local costs and IDC for both foreign and local loans estimated at $460.9 million
equivalent will be covered by loans from the State Development Bank (45 percent) and the China
Construction Bank (55 percent). Written commitments from the two local banks have been issued to
ECEPGC. The risk of unavailability of counterpart funds is extremely low because (a) Chinese banks are
competing for financing good power projects for which debt repayment is secured by the pricing formula
agreed to by the Jiangsu Provincial Government; and (b) ECEPGC has had strong balance sheets and
solid repayment records.
Viability of the Project Entity-ECEPGC
Based on consolidated financial statements for 1994-96 prepared by international consultants in
accordance with international accounting standards (IAS), ECEPGC is highly capitalized (debt accounts
of less than 40 percent of the total capitalization), entertains comfortable liquidity (liquidity ratios above
1.5 times) and debt service positions (debt service coverage close to 2 times), and makes satisfactory
profits (net profits represent about 6-8 percent of return on net fixed assets). The restated financial
statements reflected 23 IAS adjustments made to the combined financial statements published in
ECEPGC's annual reports. Almost all key performance indicators for ECEPGC improved after these
adjustments.
The projection of ECEPGC's finances in accordance with both IAS and Chinese generally agreed
accounting principles (GAAP) for 1997-2005 and the assumptions taken into account are presented at the
end of the present annex. ECEPGC is expected to maintain prudent and strong financial positions
throughout the projection period. The annual debt/equity ratios are projected to stay below 40/60 percent
and the average debt service coverage is between 1.8 to 1.9 times. The net profitability is expected to be
in the range of 4-8 percent based on Chinese accounting standards and 5-9 percent based on international
accounting standards.
Financial Management System
ECEPGC and its wholly owned subsidiaries have set up financial departments consisting each of 25 to 30
qualified financial and accounting professionals. At lower levels, such as power plants and power supply
bureaus, each unit has set up its financial section staffed with 6 to 12 qualified accountants. As of 1997,
the total number of full-time financial and accounting staff working in ECEPGC and the four major
subsidiary companies is 2050, of which 40 are senior accountants, 628 chartered accountants, and 1026
assistant accountants.
ECEPGC's financial management system, including the accounting and auditing policies, standards, and
internal control, as well as the accounting arrangements for management of the proposed project have
been reviewed and their summary descriptions are given in the PIP, available in the project file. The
Clhinese GAAP are generally consistent with the IAS. The major differences include: the approach and



Page 38                                 ANNEX7
accounting treatment for bad debt provisioning, short-term  investments' valuation, permanent
devaluation of long-term investments, and public welfare funds. However, ECEPGC is still confined to
other rules or set formats stipulated by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and MOEP and could not prepare
financial statements that fully conform with the Chinese GAAP. Nevertheless, ECEPGC will prepare a
separate set of financial statements based on IAS for internal use and/or its annual report as well as to
facilitate future fund-raising and access to financial markets.
ECEPGC's existing systems for accounting and financial management are satisfactory. However, there
are areas, including cash management, financial information flows, and modem financial management
practice, where improvements could be made to meet modem financial management standards:
(a) On the cash management issue, while very high balances of cash are shown on ECEPGC's
consolidated accounts, ECEPGC still borrows at least 80 percent of new investment requirements.
This is due to the not centralized cash management system. Cash is kept and managed by lower
units, especially distribution bureaus at different levels and power plants. Therefore, the resources
are not being utilized in the most effective and efficient manner. Even though changing the existing
system would meet strong resistance from the lower units, ECEPGC should explore options to
upgrade its cash management system through the technical assistance under the proposed project;
(b) On the issue of information flows, currently, most of the information follows a vertical hierarchical
path. Financial, planning, and construction departments/units prepare and maintain their own
financial data, such as information related to investment, sales, costs, and tariffs, and do not share
information on a routine and timely basis. Therefore, discrepancies exist and may cause mistakes on
important decisions; and
(c) On the issue of modern financial management, as ECEPGC was incorporated just few years ago, the
financial staff are strong in financial accounting (confirmed by international consultants) but still
lack financial management, technical assistance, and training. ECEPGC could improve its financial
management in areas such as financial planning, assets and liabilities management, performance
evaluation, and management accounting, etc. Under the proposed project, technical assistance and
training will be provided to upgrade ECEPGC's financial management systems and improve
financial staff's skills to address the above issues (see training program in PIP available in the
project file).
Financial Performance Targets
To promote prudent and sound financial management and adequate tariffs, ECEPGC and JPEPC agreed
that the following financial covenants will be included for the proposed project:
(a) ECEPGC shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenue and expenditure shows
that the estimated internal cash generation would provide a debt service coverage of no less than 1.5
times at all times;
(b) By June 1 of each year, furnish to the Bank a rolling eight-year financial plan containing projected
income statements, funds flow statements, and balance sheets; and
(c) ECEPGC shall: (i) enter in an agreement with JPEPC, satisfactory to the Bank, pursuant to which
JPEPC shall agree to compensate ECEPGC for the total cost of transmission of power to JPEPC
under a formula calculated using principles satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) shall cause JPEPC to



Page 39                                                ANNEX 7
increase its tariffs in amounts at least sufficient to make such payments to ECEPGC. The principles
stated above shall be used in determining the compensation payable by JPEPC to ECEPGC.
A written commitment on the principles of cost recovery through tariff increase for the proposed project
was issued by the Pricing Department of the Jiangsu Provincial Government and provided to the Bank.
Financial Summary for ECEPGC Based on LIAS
Year Ending December 31: 1995 through 2005
(In millions of current yuan)
Actual                                        Forecast
1995   1996      1997    1998    1999   20000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Income Statement
Sales (GWh)                131,271 141,695   149,866  161,201  173,710  188,005 201,591  216,105 230,954 245,430 260,104
Revenues                    38,508  45,659   52,760  63,451  77,809  94,185  109,478  126,769 147,241  167,647  189,861
Operating Income             5,172   4,493    6,200   6,346   7,761   11,491   14,359   17,347  20,682  23,598  25,816
Net Income                   2,854   2,664    2,785   2,938   3,707    5,656   6,686   7,848   9,695   11,439   13,099
Funds Statement
Intemal Sources              6,279   5,710    7,546    8,217   9,959   13,909   17,793  20,883  24,437  27,448  29,369
Borrowings                   4,337   8,456    6,038   12,523   16,641   16,466   14,046   9,399   7,651    9,178    6,504
Equity Investments           1,681    934       477    1,130    1,467    1,796    1,219   497      601      816     791
Total Sources                19,937  24,751    14,060  21,870  28,067  32,171   33,058   30,779  32,689  37,443   36,664
Capital Expenditure         13,749  18,944   13,428  21,822  26,674  27,354  24,345   18,339   17,579  20,256   17,985
Working Capital Increase/    -631  -1,572       960      -50     626    1,165     903     939      449      805     418
Decrease
Debt Service                 3,510   3,130    4,681    4,830   6,586    8,434   10,925   13,568   15,718   16,560   16,501
Total Applications       15,402  19,243   20,106  28,488  35,993  39,147  37,586  34,265  35,191   38,845  36,128
Bailance Sheet
Current Assets              33,278  40,661   38,546  36,927  34,652  33,759  35,432  37,840  41,178  46,552   53,678
Less Current Liabilities    20,344  24,082   23,505  25,964  27,900  29,821  32,309  34,593  35,696  37,335  39,324
NetFixedAssets              35,478  44,980   47,166  57,833  70,206  92,456 121,189  129,478  147,201  159,910  162,013
Total Assets             81,489 105,340  114,861  133,092  155,033  177,638  197,490 211,272 223,787 239,835 254,838
13ebt                      22,170  28,545   28,574  31,451   39,581   50,798  60,675   66,739  66,582  64,677  63,766
Equity                      38,975  52,684   52,684  59,905  67,547  76,335  87,141   98,442  110,097  123,415  138,734
Total Liabilities and   81,489 105,340  114,861  133,092 155,033  177,638  197,490 211,272 223,787 239,835 254,838
Equity
Financial Ratios
Operatinglncome asa%of        13.4%    9.8%    11.8%    10.0%    10.0%    12.2%    13.1%    13.7%   14.0%    14.1%    13.6%
Revenue
Net Income as a % of Revenue    7.4%    5.8%    5.3%    4.6%    4.8%      6.0%    6.1%    6.2%     6.6%     6.8%     6.9%
Return on Equity (%/.)         7.3%    5.1%     5.3%    4.9%    5.5%    7.4%    7.7%       8.0%    8.8%    9.3%     9.4%
Return on NetFixed Assets (%)    8.0%    5.9%   5.9%     5.1%    5.3%    6.1%    5.5%    6.1%    6.6%       7.2%     8.1%
Debt Service Coverage            1.8    1.8       1.6     1.7      1.5     1.6      1.6     1.5      1.6      1.7     1.8
PercentofTotalCapital         47.8%   50.0%    45.9%   45.0%   43.6%   43.0%   44.1%   46.6%   49.2%   51.5%    54.4%
Expenditures fnanced by       45.7%   30.1%    56.2%   37.7%   37.3%   50.8%   73.1%   113.9%  139.0%  135.5%   163.3%
Intemal Sources
CurrentRatio                     1.6    1.7       1.6     1.4      1.2     1.1      1.1      1.1     1.2      1.2     1.4
Debt as % Total Capitalization    36.3%   35.1%    35.2%   34.4%   36.9%   40.0%   41.0%   40.4%   37.7%   34.4%   31.5%



Page 40                                                ANNEX 7
Financial Summary for ECEPGC Based on Chinese GAAP
Year Ending December 31: 1995 through 2005
(In million of current yuan)
Actual                                        Forecast
1995   1996      1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Income Statement
Sales (GWh)               131,271 141,695   149,866 161,201  173,710  188,005 201,591  216,105 230,954 245,430 260,104
Revenues                   37,474  40,898   52,879  63,577  77,942  94,324 109,626 126,924 147,405  167,820 190,043
OperatingIncome             3,810   3,771    5,125    5,880   7,731   11,241   13,758   16,657   19,803  22,577   24,758
Net Income                  1,422   1,839    2,119   2,682   3,745    5,550   6,349   7,442   9,176   10,851   12,513
Funds Statement
Intemal Sources             6,479   8,154    8,655   9,929   12,193  16,366  20,518  23,794  27,585  30,817  32,911
Borrowings                  2,476  11,127    6,037  12,611   16,797  16,598   14,125   9,418    7,651    9,178    6,504
Equity Investments          1,681    934       477    1,130    1,467    1,796    1,219   497      601      816     791
Total Sources        15,743  28,437    19,208  27,750  34,578  38,921  40,067  37,955  40,126  45,143  44,581
Capital Expenditure         8,912  14,678    13,866  22,489  27,529  28,270  25,315   19,288   18,600  21,362   19,154
Working Capital Increase/            703     1,160    -402       65     756      965      -32     353     872      -68
Decrease
Debt Service                3,638   3,945    4,670   4,818   6,574    8,422  10,913   13,886  16,019   16,827   16,734
Total Applications   15,018  27,009   20,733  28,791  36,275  39,642  38,606  34,561   36,418  40,286  37,043
Balance Sheet
Current Assets             26,981  33,710   32,534  32,452  32,229  33,393  36,826  41,831  47,053  54,319  64,035
LessCurrent          19,647  23,948   26,306  29,118  31,517  33,7i71  36,445  39,620  40,738  42,232  44,633
Liabilities
Net Fixed Assets           48,342  54,087   54,967  64,085  74,804  95,148 122,154 127,999 142,971  152,699  151,698
Total Assets         85,707 104,533   108,125  126,581  149,222 172,226 191,733 205,750 217,490 228,203 247,087
Debt                       24,029  27,017   21,694  29,912  41,286  51,295  57,124  56,672  54,453  53,228  48,925
Equity                     39,522  50,235   56,086  63,472  72,298  82,999  93,962  105,212 118,010 132,743  149,154
Total Liabilities and    85,707 104,533  108,125  126,581  149,222 172,226 191,733 205,750 217,490 228,203 247,087
Equity
Financial Ratios
Operating Incomeasa %of       10.2%    9.2%     9.7%    9.2%    9.9%    11.9%,/o  12.6%   13.1%    13.4%    13.5%    13.0%
Revenue
Net Income as a % of Revenue    3.8%    4.5%    4.0%    4.2%    4.8%    5.90%   5.8%    5.9%    6.2%        6.5%     6.6%
Retum on Equity (%)            3.6%    3.7%     3.8%    4.2%     5.2%    6.7%     6.8%    7.1%    7.8%      8.2%     8.4%
Retum on Net Fixed Assets (%)    2.9%    3.4%   3.9%    4.2%     5.0%    5.8%/o   5.2%    5.8%    6.4%      7.1%     8.2%
Debt Service Coverage            1.8    2.1       1.9     2.1      1.9     1.9      1.9      1.7     1.7      1.8     2.0
Percent of Total Capital      46.1%   48.1%    51.9%   50.1%   48.4%   48.20%  49.0%   51.1%   54.3%    58.2%   60.4%
Expenditures financed by      72.7%   55.6%    62.4%   44.2%   44.3%   57.90%  81.1%   123.4%  148.3%  144.3%   171.8%
Intemal Sources
Current Ratio                    1.4    1.4       1.2     1.1      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.1     1.2      1.3     1.4
Debt as % Total Capitalization    37.8%   35.0%    27.9%   32.0%   36.3%   38.2%/6  37.8%   35.0%   31.6%   28.6%   24.7%
The major assumptions used for ECEPGC's Financial Projections are as follows:
A. General
1.  The general inflation rates are assumed as follows:
Local: 6.2 for 1997, 5.8 for 1998, 5.5 for 1999 and thereafter.
Foreign: -3.9 for 1997, 4.6 for 1998, 3.2 for 1999, 2.9 for 2000, 2.5 for 2001, 2.6 for 2002,
2.6 for 2003, 2.5 for 2004, 2.5 for 2005 and thereafter.
2.  The foreign exchange rate used is US$1-=Y 8.3.
3.  The interest rates are assumed to be 10.95 percent per year for local loans and repayable in
12 years; 5.99 percent for IBRD loan with commitment charge of 0.75 percent and repayable
in 20 years including a 5-year grace period.



Page 41                                  ANNEX 7
4. The capital investment program is based on the least-cost power development planning for
ECEPGC.
B. Income Statements
1. Energy sales projection is calculated based on load forecast of ECEPGC. Energy sales is
assumed to grow by 7.1 percent per year during the period 1997-2005.
2. The tariffs are assumed to be adjusted so that the average revenues would be adequate for
achieving the minimum financial performance targets.
3. The actual average consumption rate of standard coal in 1996 for generation was
347 g/kWh. The rate is assumed to decline to about 334 g/kWh by 2005.
4. The cost of purchased power is assumed to increase by 2.5 percent a year in real terms
based on estimated prices in 1997 The tariffs for each IPP is estimated in accordance with
the "new plant, new price" policy.
5. The average line loss rate of ECEPGC is assumed to be 6.88 percent and to decline to 6.83
in 2000.
6. The annual depreciation rate is assumed to be 5.5 percent.
7. All interest during construction (IDC) are capitalized.
8. The average wages are assumed to increase by 3 percent a year in real terms based on
1996's actual plus half of the growth rate of energy sales.
9. The total number of employee is assumed to increase by 1 percent a year.
10. Fuel costs are assumed to increase by 1 percent a year in real terms based on 1996's actual,
Y 366/ton (7,000 kcal/kg), till 2000 and to escalate with the projected inflation rates
afterward.
11. Under the operation and maintenance costs, material cost is assumed to increase by 7.5
percent plus the rate of growth of original fixed assets per year in real terms; water cost is
assumed to increase by 1.5 percent plus the rate of growth of electricity generated per year in
real terms; and maintenance cost is assumed to be 2.5 percent of fixed assets.
12. Income tax is expected to be assessed at 33 percent of taxable income.
13. Value-added tax (VAT) is 17 percent and the effective rate is assumed to be 7.5 percent
after deducting VAT included in the costs for fuel and materials.
14. Urban and education tax rates are 7 and 3 percent of VAT, respectively.
C. Balance Sheet
1. Inventories are assumed to be 20 day's fuel supply plus 2 percent of the gross fixed assets.
2. Accounts receivable is assumed to be reduced from 20 days' gross sales revenue in 1996
and to be reduced gradually to 15 days by 2003.



Page 42                                  ANNEX 7
3. Other accounts receivable is assumed to increase by 3 percent a year.
4. Fixed assets cost includes estimated total project costs, capitalized interest during
construction, and commitment fees. No annual revaluation of fixed assets is assumed.
5. Accounts payable is assumed to decrease gradual[iy from 30 days of costs for fuel,
purchased power, and materials in 1997 to 10 days by 2005.
6. Tax payable is assumed to reduce from 60 days of eiffective VAT and other surcharges in
1997 to 35 days by 2005.
7. Short-term loans are assumed to grow by 2 percent a year.
8. Earned surplus includes accumulated consumers' contribution, and development and
welfare funds that are appropriated from net income each year.
9. Retained earnings will increase by each year's net income and decrease by the above two
appropriations and declared dividends.
D. Funds Flow Statement
The consumer contributions represents the receipts of consumer connections and is
assumed to increase by 1 percent a year based on 1996 actual collection.



Page 43                                  ANNEX 8
ANNEX 8: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement
All goods and consultant services to be financed under the Bank loan will be procured by ECEPGC in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines ("Guidelines-Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,"
January 1995, revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 and "Guidelines for Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," January 1997 and revised in September
1997). Project costs by procurement arrangements are summarized in Table A. Procurement activities
will be processed according to the schedule in Tables B and BI and Charts I and IA.
In International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and Limited International Bidding (LIB) procurement, model
bidding documents (May 1997) developed by MOF in consultation with the Bank would be used.
Standard bid evaluation forms for procurement of Goods and Works (April 1996) would be used. In
evaluation of the bids following ICB procedures, qualified domestic manufacturers would be eligible for
a margin of preference of 15 percent of the Cost, Insurance, Freight (CIF) price or the actual customs
duty, whichever is lower.
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost US$10 million equivalent or more shall be
advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
Goods. Equipment, goods and materials financed from the Bank loan will be procured according to the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines. The Bank loan will be mainly used for procurement of major equipment
and materials for transmission lines, substations, and automation and data communication system. About 95
percent of the equipment and materials will be procured through ICB (Table C). Some specialized
equipment estimated to cost less than US$1 million per contract up to an aggregate amount of $4 million,
and which can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers will be procured through LIB. Goods,
instruments and accessories needed for construction and operation of transmission facilities, and for
technical assistance and training, which are readily available off-the-shelf goods or standard specification
commodities, and which are estimated to cost less than $300,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of
$1.5 million, will be procured through contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping (IS)
procedures, by soliciting quotations from at least three suppliers in two different countries. Direct
Contracting (DC) will be used for proprietary items estimated to cost less than $300,000 per contract,
related to expansion of existing substations, for reasons of compatibility and standardization, which would
include contracts for: (a) equipment proprietary to protection design; and (b) equipment requiring
compatibility with existing units or to meet dimensional clearance restriction. The aggregate value for DC is
not to exceed US$0.5 million. The list of equipment to be procured by other means than ICB is presented in
Table D. The preparatory works, civil works and installation of transmission facilities are well within the
capability of the local contractors. These works will be financed by ECEPGC and procured following local
competitive bidding procedures; installation of major equipment will be supervised by the manufacturers.
Services (Table E). Three contracts amounting to about $4.5 million in total for consulting services will
be awarded in accordance with Bank Guidelines. These include technical assistance for improved
interprovincial power exchange policies and procedures (one contract), construction management (one
contract) and technical assistance for ECEPGC's accounting and financial management systems (one
contract). Selection of consultants will be carried out through Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS). Procurement of construction management services may use single-source selection method



Page 44                                  ANNEX 8
given the necessity of continuity for Phase II construction work. These contracts shall be based on the
applicable standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Other consulting services expected not to
exceed US$100,000 per contract for firms and US$50,000 for individuals, may be procured under
Consultants' Qualifications procedures (appropriate qualifications and references from an established
short list). These may include advisory services to ECEPGC on regulatory and technical matters.
Prior Review Thresholds (Table F). Prior review of draft bidding documents, bid evaluation reports
and contract award recommendations and contracts will be carried out for all ICB contracts and LIB
contracts exceeding $300,000. This will cover over 99 percent of the Bank loans. Selective postreview
will apply to other contracts during supervision missions. Prior review of the terms of reference, cost
estimates, selection criteria, consultant shortlists, request for proposals, bid evaluation reports and
contract award recommendations and contracts will be required for all consultant contracts with an
estimated cost exceeding $100,000 per contract for firms, or $50,000 for individuals.
Disbursement
Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Table G). The Bank loan will be disbursed against: (a) 100 percent of
the foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment and materials quoted on a CIF basis; (b) 100
percent of local expenditures ex-factory for locally manufactured items; (c) 75 percent of local
expenditure for other items procured locally; and (d) 100 percent of the expenditure for consulting
services and training.
The estimated annual disbursement schedule is shown in the Project Financing Data on page 1 and
detailed in the PIP (available in the project file). It reflects the Bank's experience with previous power
projects in China. The disbursements are expected to be completed in four years, September 1998-
September 2003. The project completion date will be March 31, 2003 and the loan closing date
September 30, 2003.
Retroactive financing in an aggregated amount of $5 million, or 2 percent of the loan, would be
provided for anticipated expenditures (consulting services for sector reform and equipment on the
critical path of the project construction) incurred after the project appraisal and before the signing of the
loan.
Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs). For expenditures pertaining to goods contract valued at less
than $300,000, consultancy contracts valued at less than $100,000 for firms and $50,000 for individuals
and all training, reimbursement will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures. Supporting
documents need not be submitted to the Bank but will be retained in ECEPGC's office for review by the
Bank supervision missions.
Special Account. To facilitate disbursement under this project, a 'Special Account will be established
for ECEPGC with an authorized allocation of $10 million in US currency, representing approximately
four months of average project disbursements. Applications for replenishment will be submitted
monthly or when the amounts withdrawn equal 50 percent of the initial deposit, whichever comes
sooner.



Page 45                                         ANNEX 8
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Total Cost
Proposed method                     (including
Expenditure Category             ICB          NCB           Other        NBF       contingencies)
1. Works
(1) Preparatory Works                         7            -            -             1.60         1.60
(2) Land Acquisition and Resettlement         -            -            -           75.77         75.77
(3) Civil Works & Installation                -            -            -           183.92       183.92
2. Goods
(4) 500KV transmission lines                 65.80         -            -           106.54       172.33
(65.80)                                              (65.80)
(5) Substation                              108.18         -            6.00        58.99        173.17
(108.18)                    (6.00)                   (114.18)
(6) Communication & Automation              37.25          -            -            14.59        51.84
(37.25)                                              (37.25)
(7) 220 kV & 110 kV Transmission line        14.04         -            -             8.50        22.54
(14.04)                                              (14.04)
(8) 220 kV & 110 kV Substation               11.56         -            -            12.94        24.50
(11.56)                                              (11.56)
3. Services
(SI) Engineering Service                      -            -            1.10         6.72          7.81
(1.10)                    (1.10)
(10) TA for Reform                            -            -            1.69          -            1.69
(1.69)                    (1.69)
(I 1) TA for Financial & Accounting system    -            -            2.25          -            2.25
(2.25)                    (2.25)
(12) Training                                 -            -            2.14         0.18          2.32
(2.14)                    (2.14)
4. Miscellaneous
Total                                    236.83         -            13.18       469.74       719.74
(236.83)        -          (13.18)        -          (250.00)
ANote: Figures in the parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit.
NBF= Not Bank-financed; Other procurement includes LIB, international and national shopping, direct contracting, and
consultancy services.



Page 46                                        ANNEX 8
Table B: ICB Procurement Schedule
Ist Lot        2nd Lot         3rd Lot         4th Lot
(IFB 1-4)      (IFB 5-23)      (IFB 24-26)    (IFB 27-29)
Complete preparation of bidding documents   11/30/97        12/31/97        2/28/98         4/30/98
Issue GPN                                   11/30/97        11/30/97        11/30/97        11/30/97
Approval by Chinese government               1/30/98        2/28198         4/30/98         6/30/98
Review by the World Bank                    2/28/98         4/30/98         6/30/98         8/31/98
Issue SPN                                   2/15/98         4/15/98         6/15/98         8/15/98
Issue bidding documents                     3/15/98         5/15/98         7/15/98         9/15/98
Bid opening                                 5/15/98         7/15/98         9/15/98         11/15/98
Complete bid evaluation                     6/15/98         9/15/98         11/15/98         1/15/99
Approval by Chinese government              7/15/98         10/30/98        12/15/98        2/28/99
Review by the World Bank                    8/15/98         11/30/98         1/15/99        3/30/99
Complete contract negotiation               9/15/98         12/30/98        2/15/99         4/29/99
Contract award                              9/30/98         12/31/98        2/16/99         4/30/99
Table Bl: Consulting Services Schedule
Interprovincial Power Exchange   Accounting and Financial Management
Complete preparation of terms of reference          9/30/97                         9/29/97
Issue GPN                                          10/16/97                         10/16/97
Issue SPN                                          12/16/97                          5/1/98
Issue of RFP                                        1/16/98                         6/15/98
Bid opening (technical proposal)                    3/2/98                          8/17/98
Complete Bid Evaluation                             3/13/98                         10/14/98
Review by the World Bank                            3/17/98                         10/19/98
Notification to Bidders                             3/18/98                         10/26/98
Bid opening (financial proposal)                    4/6/98                          11/16/98
Complete Bid Evaluation                             4/9/98                          11/30/98
Review by the World Bank                            4/13/98                         12/10/98
Complete contract negotiation                       4/27/98                         1/20/99
Contract Award                                      4/30/98                          2/2/99



Page 47                                           ANNEX $
Table C: ICB Procurement Arrangement
IFB No.                                    Item                                     Quantity       Unit
I     First Lot
I     a. 400mm2 conductor                                                          9,536         km
b. 630mm2 conductor                                                          2,520
2     500 kV composite insulator                                                     I           lot
3     500 kV line disc insulator                                                     I           lot
4     Optical fiber groundwire/all dielectric self-supporting optical fiber cable (ADSS)  I      lot
II    Second Lot
5     a. 1,000 MVA three-phase auto transfonner                                      I           sets
b. 750 MVA three-phase auto transformer                                       6
6     500 kV SF6 breaker                                                            41           sets
7     500 kV disconnect switch/500 kV earthing switch/72.5 kV disconnect switch   108115/7       sets
8     500 kV high frequency line trap                                               39           sets
9     500 kV current transformer                                                    123          sets
10    500 kV capacitor voltage transformner                                          82          sets
11    500 kV ZnO surge arrestor                                                      85          sets
12    500 kV post insulator                                                         144          sets
13    500 kV transformer protection/500 kV busbar protection                       14/20         sets
14    500 kV line protection I (carrier channel)                                     9           sets
15    500 kV line protection 2 (optical channel)                                    8/8          sets
16    Power line carrier                                                             28          sets
17    500 kV substation automation system                                            5           sets
18    220 kV circuit breaker/72.5 kV circuit breaker                                81/7         sets
19    220 kV disconnect switch                                                      203          sets
20    220 kV current transformer/220 kV capacitor voltage transformer              153/65        sets
21    220 kV GIS/I 10 kV GIS                                                        12/8         sets
22    220kV, 110k V cable                                                            2            lot
23    35 kV oil-immersed shunt reactor                                               14          sets
III    Third Lot
24    Automation and Data communication system                                       3            lot
25    Optical equipment                                                              29          sets
26    Microwave communication equipment                                               I           lot
IV    Fourth Lot
27    Tower & accessory equipment                                                  8,390         ton
28    Conductor, ground wire & accessories                                            I           lot
29    Insulators and accessories                                                      I           lot
Total



Chart 1: ICB Procurement Schedule
1998                                 1~~~~~."               1999
M  Task Name                        Duratio   Start    Finish                 Ql I      Q2   |  Q3   |  Q4   |  Q I              Q2   I  Q3          Q4        Ql
1  1st lot procurement (IFB1-lFB4)    54.6w    9/l/97   9/16/98                             Issue bidding document
paration of docs                      O                      Contract award
2      Preparation of docs              13w    9/1/97  11/28/97
3      Approval by Chinese              9w    12/1/97   1/30/98
government
4      Review by World Bank              4w    2/2/98   2/27/98
5      Issue SPN                       0.2w    3/2/98    3/2/98
6      Issue bidding document          0.2w   3/16/98   3/16/98
7      Bid opening                     0.2w   5/15/98   5/15/98          .
.                   -    ,}S~~~*/15.  
8      Bid evaluation                  4.2w   5/18/98   6/15/98
9      Approval by Chinese             4.4w   6/16/98   7/15/98.
government
10      Review by World Bank           4.4w   7/16/98   8/14/98
Progress                                          Rolled Up Milestone
Baseline                                         Baseline Summary
Project: PROCURE              Milestone                                         Rolled Up Baseline
Date: 3/2/98                  Baseline Milestone         K                      Rolled Up Baseline Milestone K
Summary                                           Rolled Up Progress
Rolled Up Task                                                                                                                                 PC



Cnarn i: ICB Procurement Schedule
1998                 1                  1999                   _   _
ID  Task Name                       Duratio   Start    Finish      Q4       IQl        Q2        Q3        Q4        Ql        Q2        Q3        Q4 ]   Ql
11      Contract negotiation           4.4w   8/17/98   9/15/98
12      Contract award                 0.2w   9/16/98   9/16/98
_     9/16
13 2nd lot procurement (IFB5-lF23)    65.4w    10/1/97  12/31/98                                 Issue bidding document
Preparation of docs                                                     Contract award
14      Preparation of docs           13.2w   10/1/97  12/31/97
15      Approval by Chinese            8.4w    1/l/98   2/28/98
government
16      Review by World Bank           8.8w    3/2/98   4/30/98
17     Issue SPN                       0.2w    5/1/98    5/1/98                                    ...D
18     Issue bidding document          0.2w   5/15/98   5/15/98
19      Bid opening                    0.2w   7/15/98   7/15/98
7/15
20      Bid evaluation                 8.8w   7/16/98   9/15/98
Progress                                         Rolled Up Milestone
Baseline                                         Baseline Summary
Project: PROCURE             Milestone                                         Rolled Up Baseline
Date: 3/2/98                 Baseline Milestone                                Rolled Up Baseline Milestone K
Summary                                          Rolled Up Progress                                                                          >
z
Rolled Up Task             _



Chart 1: ICB Procurement Schedule
1           ~~~1998                ]1999                                    I ____
ID  Task Name                       Duralo   Start    Finish        Q4        Q l       Q2        Q3-       Q4                         I Ql   Q2  Q3  Q4   [   Ql
21      Approval by Chinese             6.6w   9/16/98  10/30/98
government                                                                                  [..)
22      Review by World Bank           4.4w    11/2/98   12/1/98
23      Contract negotiation           4.2w    12/2/98  12/30/98
_ w +w1_                                                                                            .~
24      Contract award                  0.2w   12/31/98  12/31/98                                                                   [1.
.          ..           .                <1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2/31
25  3rd lot procurement               63.4w    12/1/97   2/16/99                                          Issue bidding document
(IF 24-IFB26)                                                      Preparation of docs                                                     Contract award
26      Preparation of docs             13w    1211/97   2/27/98
27      Approval by Chinese             8.8w    3/2/98   4/30/98          .
government
28      Review by World Bank            8.6w    5/1/98   6/30/98
29      Issue SPN                       0.2w    7/1/98    7/1/98
7/15/981                                                                                            ,.
30      Issue bidding document          0.2w    7/15/98   7/15/98
Progress                                          Rolled Up Milestone
Baseline                                          Baseline Summary
Project: PROCURE              Milestone                                         Rolled Up Baseline
Date: 3/2/98                  Baseline Milestone          K                     Rolled Up Baseline Milestone  >
Summary                                           Rolled Up Progress                                                                            >
Rolled Up Task             __ _ _



Chart I TICD    cuQt ScheduAleI
1998                  11999                                      ____
ID  Task Name                        Duratio   Start    Finish       Q4   jQl            Q2         Q3        Q4       |Q   Q2    |Q3   |  Q4   [ Ql
31      Bid opening                     0.2w    9/15/98   9/15/98
/15
32      Bid evaluation                  8.6w   9/16/98  11/13/98
33      Approval by Chinese             4.4w   11/16/98  12/15/98
government
34      Review by World Bank            4.4w   12/16/98   1/14/99
35      Contract negotiation            4.4w    1/15/99   2/15/99
36      Contract award                  0.2w    2/16/99   2/16/99
2/16                           -u
37 4th lot procurement (IFB27-IFB29)   69.4w     1/1/98   4/30/99                                                 Issue bidding document                                        CD
Preparation of docs                     .                                .,, Contract award
38      Preparation of docs            17.2w     1/1/98   4/30/98
39      Approval by Chinese             8.6w     5/1/98   6/30/98
government
40      Review by World Bank            8.6w     7/1/98   8/28/98
Progress                                          Rolled Up Milestone
Baseline                                          Baseline Summary
Project: PROCURE              Milestone                                          Rolled Up Baseline
Date: 3/2/98                  Baseline Milestone                                 Rolled Up Baseline Milestone  >
Summary                         _                 Rolled Up Progress           1
z
Rolled Up Task               __52
....  . _                                                                                                                   co~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Chart 1: ICB Procurement Schedule
998                                     1999
ID  Task Name                       Duratio   Start    Finish       Q4   [  Ql I        Q2   |  Q3          Q4   |  Ql           Q2        Q3        Q4   |  Ql
41      Issue SPN                      0.2w    8/31/98   8/31/98.
42      Issue bidding document          0.2w   9/15/98   9/15/98
43      Bid opening                     0.2w   11/16/98  11/16/98         .1..6
.           .            .             O11~~~~~~~~~~~~~1/16
44      Bid evaluation                  8.6w   11/17/98   1/14/99
45      Approval by Chinese             6.2w   1/15/99   2/26/99
government                                                        .                                                
46      Review by World Bank            4.4w    3/1/99   3/30/99
47      Contract negotiation            4.4w   3/31/99   4/29/99          .
48      Contract award                  0.2w   4/30/99   4/30/9-9[]43
Progress                                          Rolled Up Milestone
Baseline                                          Baseline Summary
Project: PROCURE              Milestone                                         Rolled Up Baseline
Date: 3/2/98                  Baseline Milestone                                Rolled Up Baseline Milestone K
Summary                                           Rolled Up Progress                                                                            >
z
z
Rolled Up Task                      _                                                                                                           mx
c



rb.4.+ 1 A   Consultin                                             Sched
%-Hal L i Pk.   %-11iOUIL111r, L3C;1 V ItV, iLA%,IVUU1C;
__T          1                                      1998                                                                             Dec Janr 1999                     _
ID   Task Name                  Durati    Start      Finish    % Comp.  May   Jun    Jul   Aug   Sep   Oct  Nov   De    Ja   |eb  M                     Apr  May  Jun    Jul   Aug   Sep   Oct  Nov   D 9 J9                 | F
I   Power Market                39.2w      811/97    4/30/98         0%
Development                                                               Prep. of LOI ..                                                 s                Contract Signing
2         Preparation of LOI      8.8w     8/1/97    10/1/97         0%
Prep. of LOI
3         Issue of SPN              Id   12116/97   12/16/97          0%/.
4         Issue of LOI              Id    1/16/98    1/16198         0%
5         Bid Opening               Id     3/2/98      3/2/98        0%/6
(Technical)
6         Bid Evaluation           2w       3/3/98    3/16/98         0%/.
(Technical)
7         Review by World         0.6w    3/19/98    3/23/98         0%/.
Bank                                                                         ..
8         Notification to           Id    3/24/98    3/24/98         0.%
Bidders
/24
9         Bid Opening               Id    4/14/98    4/14/98         0%/.
(Financial)
10         Bid Evaluation         0.6w    4/15/98    4/18/98          0%                .
(Financial)
I1         Review by World          3d    4/20/98    4/22/98          0/%
Bank
Progress                                                                 Rolled Up Milestone
Baseline                                                                 Baseline Summary
Milestone                                                                Rolled Up Baseline
Baseline Milestone                                                       Rolled Up Baseline Milestone 0
Summary                                                                  Rolled Up Progress                                                                                                                                   >
z
Rolled Up Task                           ________



Page 54                                                      ANNEX S
z-~~~~~~
.....................~ ~ ~~C..
LI~ ~ L
0   co~~~0
rA    0 ~ ~     ~           ~           ~          ~           ~          ~         o0
ci)      06 
o        e                                                                                                  CD      0Or
Q ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~..............................................................................
C
C
Zi                                    0~~~~~~~~~                                         0 
la.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Cha-rt 1A.  Consulting Service Schedule
199_                                                                         I199
ID  Task Name                 Durati   Start      Finisb    % Comp.  May |un   Jul   AUg   Sep   Oct  Nov   Dc    Jan   Feb IMaru  Apr  May |Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep   Oct  Nov   Dec   Jan   Feb   Mar  Apr
23        Bid Evaluation         2w    11t6/98   11/19/98         0./.
(Financial)                                                             ..,2
24        Review by World         3d   11/20/98   11/24/98      0O%
Baok
25        Contract              2.4w   12/21/98     1/5/99        0./.
Negotiation
2~6        Contrat Signing      0.2w      1/6/99    1/6/99        00/.
Coatract SmgmmkC      /
CD
Cll
Progress                                                            Rolled Up Milestone
Baseline                                                            Baseline Summary
Milestone                                                           Rolled Up Baseline
Baseline Milestone                                                  Rolled Up Baseline Milestone
Summary                                                             Rolled Up Progress                                                                                                                          >
z
z
Rolled Up Task                        _______m
x
CD



Page 56                                           ANNEX 8
Table D: LIB, IS & DC Procurement ALrrangement
No. Item                                    Quantity  Unit   Estimated                 Remark
Cost
(US$ million)
I  LIB                                                        4.00
1  500 kV SF6 Breaker                         4      sets     0.96     Dimension restriction
Wunan, Dongshanqiao, Jiangdu
2  500 kV disconnect switch/Earthing switch  10/1   sets      0.49     Dimension restriction
Wunan, Dongshanqiao, Jiangdu
3  500 kV current transformer                 15    sets      0.86     Dimension restriction
Wunan, Dongshanqiao, Jiangdu
4  500 kV line protection                     5      sets     0.85     Replacing existing equipment
Wunan, Dongshanqiao, Jiangdu
5  Power line carrier                         8      sets     0.62     Replacing existing equipment
Wunan, Dongshanqiao, Jiangdu
6  500 kV ZO surge arrestor                   6      sets     0.10     Dimension restriction
Wunan, Dongshanqiao, Jiangdu
7  500 kV capacitor voltage transformer       9      sets     0.12     Dimension restriction
Wunan, Dongshanqiao, Jiangdu
II 2. International Shopping                                   1.50
Jiangsu data communication X2.5 packet                     0.20     Retrofit existing substation
network switching node machine
X2.5 data concentrator and packet                          0.30     Retrofit existing substation
assembly/disassembly (PAD)
Router                                                     0.30     Retrofit existing substation
Network management sytem                                   0.20     Retrofit existing substation
RTU                                                        0.20     Retrofit existing substation
622Mbpsl+ITM                                               0.30     Retrofit existing substation
III 3. Direct contracting                                      0.50
Special tools                                              0.30     Special requirement
Instruments                                                0.20     Special requirement
Total                                                      6.00



Page 57                                           ANNEtX 8
Table E: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services                                                                            Total Cost
Expenditure Category                            Selection Method                                (including
QCBS       QBS       SFB       LCS      CQ        Other       NBF      contingencies)
A. Firms                 3.94       -         -          -        -       1.10*        6.71     11.75
(3.50)                                           (1.00)                 (4.5)
B. Individuals                                -                            -            -         -
Total            3.94       -         -          -        -       1.10         6.71      11.75
(3.50)                                           (1.00)                 (4.5)
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS =  Quality-Based Selection
S:FB =   Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS =   Least-Cost Selection
CQ =    Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other =  Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc. and * single-
source selection
NBF =  Not Bank-financed.
Notes:  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Consultancy contracts only, traning and capacity building for transmission planning (US$2.3 million) is not included
in this table.



Page 58                                          ANNEX8
Table F: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category Contract Value (Threshold)   Procurement Method    Contracts Subject to Prior Review/Estimated
Total Value Subject to Prior Review
1. Goods                   >S300,000       ICB                    29 contracts subject to prior review/$236.8
million
LIB                   5 contracts $3.78 million subject to prior
review
< $300,000       LIB, direct contracting,  110 contracts $2.22 million subject to selective
international and national postreview
shopping
2. Services        > $100,000 for firm      QCBS (2 TA contracts)  3 TA contracts/$5.1 million and training $2.1
> $50,000 for individuals   Single-source selection   rnillion subject to prior review
(I TA contract)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: $247.8 million
Table G: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category   Amount in US$million                     Financing Percentage
(1) Goods                    233.6         (a) 100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment and
materials quoted on a c.i.f basis; (b) 100% of local expenditures ex-factory
for locally manufactured items; and (c) 75% of local expenditure for other
items procured locally.
(2) Services                   6.4         100% of the expenditures for consulting services and training.
(3) Unallocated                10.0
Total                250.0



Page 59                                    ANNEX 9
ANNEX 9: LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT
General
The East ChinalJiangsu 500 kV Power Transmission Project consists of five project components of
which three will involve land requisition and resettlement: (a) construction of five new 500-kV
substations; (b) construction of 12 sections of 500-kV transmission lines in Jiangsu Province totaling
993 km; and (c) construction of three 220-kV substations and two 1 10-kV substations in Nanjing City.
M[inimization of the scope of resettlement was, and will continue to be, a high priority throughout the
planning, design and implementation of the proposed project. Where land acquisition and demolition of
existing housing are unavoidable, the resettlement plans provide for replacement of housing, alternative
ernployment opportunities, infrastructure, services and other resources to improve, or at least restore, the
living conditions and income of the project-affected persons (PAPs).
For the two first components, the Bank concurred with the Beneficiary's proposal to prepare the RAP in
twio stages. The two-stage RAP is justified because the site selection for several components of the
project will be completed only after the detailed engineering studies are finalized (June 1998). The first-
stage RAP includes: (a) policies and regulations, institutional arrangements, implementation procedures
that would be applied to all components of the proposed project; (b) detailed resettlement plans for
project components to be started in 1998: (i) two 500-kV substations, (ii) three sections of 500 kV lines,
and (iii) all substations and lines to be constructed in Nanjing City.
The Bank carried out full review of the first-stage RAP submitted by ECEPGC and found that the
resettlement needs of the PAPs are well analyzed and the mitigating measures of social impacts are
adequate. The second-stage RAP and any unforeseen resettlement associated with the project will be
carried out according to the policy and procedures established in the first-stage RAP.
Scope of Resettlement
According to the first-stage resettlement estimates, the project (including two phases) would: (a) require
acquisition of 1,307 mu (about 87 ha) of land; (b) affect 592 farmers due to land acquisition; (c)
demolition of 875,963 square meters of houses in rural and urban areas ; and (d) relocation of 5,436
households or 20,650 persons (see Table 1).
Table 1: Estimated Scope of Resettlement for the East ChinalJiangsu 500 kV Power Transmission
Project (Phase I and II)
Number of          Amount of        Amount of     Number of
Relocated Households  Removed Floor Space  Land Acquisition  People Affected
Items                            (persons)           (m2)             (mu)        by Land Loss
1. 500kV Substations                  0                   0            641.2           592
2. 500 kV Transmission Lines       5,076             861,808           639.4             0
(19,661)
3. Nanjing Distribution             360               14,155            26.8             0
(989)
Total                   5,436             875,963          1,307.4           592
(20,650)
Sourace: East China Electric Power Group Corporation.



Page 60                                    ANNEX 9
The scope of the first-stage resettlement has been carefully evaluated and is presented in Table 2.
Table 2: Estimated Scope of Resettlement for the East China/Jliangsu 500 kV Power Transmission
Project (Phase 1)
Number of          Amount of        Amount of     Number of
Relocated Households  Removed Floor Space  Land Acquisition  People Affected
Items                            (persons)           (m2)             (mu)        by Land Loss
1. 500 kV Substations                0                   0           341.2            370
2. 500 kV Transmission Lines      1,462             248,215           184.2             0
(5,663)
3. Nanjing Distribution            360               14,155            26.8             0
(989)
Total                  1,822             262,370           552.2           370
(6,652)
Source: East China Electric Power Group Corporation.
Legal Framework
The land acquisition and resettlement of the Jiangsu 500 kV Transmission Power Project are based on
state laws and/or regulations, and provincial implementation measures. The state laws and regulations
include: "Land Administration Law" (1988), "City Planning Act" (1990), and "Administrative
Regulation of Urban Building Demolition and Relocation" (1991). The provincial implementation
measures include: "Jiangsu Provincial Implementation Measure of Land Administration Law" (1987),
and "Nanjing City Administration Method of Urban Building Demolition and Relocation" (1996).
Detailed compensation for lost young crops, land and property, provided in the first-stage RAP, will
apply to all resettlement actions carried out under the proposed project.
Resettlement Institutional Arrangement
In order to effectively implement the land acquisition and resettlement program for the proposed project,
resettlement groups from provincial government to affected village level have been established.
A leading group, including officials from Jiangsu Provincial Government, managers from ECEPGC, and
JPEPC representatives of other concerned agencies, will supervise all resettlement activities to ensure
successful implementation of the RAP. It will coordinate the wor]k of resettlement groups established at
the concerned city and entity levels.
A project resettlement office has been established in JPEPC. The resettlement office consists of key
resettlement staff from both JPEPC and concerned city power bureaus. It will: (a) supervise the local
consultants' work related to the scope of resettlement based on project engineering studies, detailed
census and social economic surveys, and evaluation of resettlement impacts; (b) arrange resettlement
training for the main resettlement staff; (c) develop the resettlement action plan; (d) carry out extensive
consultation on resettlement policies with concerned government agencies; (e) manage, allocate and
supervise the disbursement of resettlement budget; (f) monitor and coordinate the resettlement
implementation among different city resettlement offices; (g) carry out internal resettlement monitoring



Page 61                                    ANNEX 9
and develop internal monitoring report; (h) coordinate the independent resettlement monitoring efforts;
and (i) prepare progress report for the East China/Jiangsu 500kV Power Transmission Project Office.
The resettlement offices at the city and county levels, consisting of resettlement staff from respective
power bureaus, are mainly responsible of implementation of the RAP. They will work closely with city
and county land administration bureaus to implement the resettlement programs. Their responsibilities
include: (a) social economic survey and census survey; (b) participation in the development of the RAP;
(c) organization of public participation; (d) obtainment of land use and land requisition permits; (e)
signing of contracts with affected county land administration bureaus, and affected townships and
villages; (f) supervision of the resettlement budget allocation and use; (g) signing of contracts with city
demolition and land requisition companies and supervision of the resettlement implementation; (h)
assistance in both internal and external monitoring works during implementation; (i) preparation of
progress reports to the project resettlement office; and (j) coordination and conflict resolution during the
resettlement implementation. In affected townships and villages, resettlement working teams will be set
up to facilitate the resettlement implementation.
Public Consultation and Grievance Procedure
In the process of formulating resettlement policies, developing resettlement action plans, and carrying
out resettlement implementation, special attention was given to consultation with affected communities
and people. In the project feasibility phase, the project office consulted extensively with local
governments, local people's congresses, nongovernment organizations, and individuals with regard to the
site selection of substations and transmission line corridors. All affected villages and individuals were
con-sulted during the resettlement planning phase and the census and social surveys. Numerous meetings
were held with affected people and local officials on compensation policies and rehabilitation measures.
About 30 percent of the relocated households were interviewed by the project team. Their concerns and
opinions have been incorporated in the first-stage RAP. In addition, serious efforts will be made to
inf'orm the resettlers about resettlement policies and their entitlements. A resettlement information
booklet, including main contents of the RAP, compensation and entitlement policies, and grievance
procedures, will be distributed to PAPs prior to resettlement implementation. Further consultation with
aff'ected people will be ensured by resettlement institutions during implementation.
To ensure that the resettlement program is implemented successfully, and complaints are processed in a
timely fashion, two special grievance procedures, one for rural areas and one for urban areas, have been
established and will be publicized to all resettlers. In rural areas unsatisfied affected persons could (a)
complain to the village committee or resettlement working team in the affected township; (b) appeal any
unsatisfactory decision to the county or city resettlement office; (c) report directly to the project
resettlement office (provincial level) or the resettlement leading group for the project. In the case of
urban areas (Nanjing City), unsatisfied affected persons could: (a) complain in writing to the concerned
Resettlement Land Acquisition Company; (b) appeal any unsatisfactory decision to the Nanjing
Resettlement Office; (c) report directly to the project resettlement office (provincial level) or the
resettlement leading group of the project. In both cases, all offices are requested to process complaints
within two weeks. In case of persisting disagreement, the unsatisfied affected persons could request an
administrative review of the case following the administrative appeal law, or go directly to court.
Budget and Timetable
BaLsed on preliminary budget projection, resettlement costs will amount to 567.1 million yuan, with the
first phase being 242.1 million for the first phase and 325.0 million yuan for the second phase (see Table
3). This includes a 10 percent contingency provision and 5 percent management fee.



Page 62                                         ANNEX 9
Table 3: Resettlement Budget for Jiangsu 500 kV Transmission Power Project
(Million yuan)
Items                                      Step I            Step II         Total Cost         (0/O)
Rural                                     127.05            277.63            404.72           70.7
Land Compensation                          30.59             39.18             69.77
Housing Compensation                       85.47            211.27            296.74
Moving Allowance                            1.02.             2.53              3.55
Tree Compensation                           9.94             24.58             34.52
Infrastructure Compensation                 0.03              0.07              0.10
Urban                                      78.77              0.00             78.77           13.8
Daxinggong substation                      34.31              0.00             34.31
Xuanwu substation                          12.52              0.00             12.52
Xiaguan substation                         31.94              0.00             31.94
Other                                      15.70             21.17             36.87            6.4
Design/monitoring                           4.12              5.55              9.67
Technical training                          1.03              1.39              2.42
Implementation management                  10.55             14.23             24.78
Contingency                                22.15             29.88             52.03            9.1
Total                     243.67            328.72            572.40           100.0
Source: East China Electric Power Group Corporation.



Page 63                                 ANNEX 10
ANNEX 10: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
A. SUMMARY OF KEY PROJECT ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
Noise, Air Quality, and Electromagnetism
During construction, impacts are primarily increased levels of dust and noise from use and movement of
construction equipment. All equipment will be operated during daytime hours. It has been determined
tlhat noise levels will be in compliance with standards of Chinese and World Bank environmental
guidelines.
Increased dust levels are short-lived and localized. No significant impact is expected.
During operation, primary issues associated with transmission lines and substations are electromagnetic
field impacts on human population, and agriculture, and noise from corona discharge. Baseline
measurements of electric field intensity were made in the vicinity of the proposed transmission line
routes and substations. Based on these measurements and design configurations for transmission lines
and substations it has been estimated that electric field intensity will conform with China's standards
(9.5 kV/m at agricultural areas, 7.0 kV/m crossing over highways, and 5 kV/m at substation boundaries).
There are no World Bank environmental guidelines for electric field intensity.
NToise from corona discharge is estimated to comply with China's standards and World Bank Guidelines
during fair weather conditions. During rainfall, transmission line noise will increase above these
requirements. However, it is also estimated that noise from the rainfall itself will mask any noise from
the corona effect.
licterferences to Communication
Corona noise interferes primarily with lower frequency signals normally associated with AM radio
broadcasting. This noise is only problematic during rainstorms. However, during these periods, greater
interference to radio signals are caused by atmospheric (static) electricity, so contributions from the
corona effect are completely masked. Noise from gap discharges are normally associated with the higher
fiequencies associated with TV broadcasting. Gap discharge noise is not expected to be a problem
because the project will use state of the art equipment.
No interference to cable and satellite television or telephone reception is anticipated.
VVater Body Transmission Crossings
Tower pad and access road construction in and near surface waters can result in water quality impacts
(primarily increases in suspended solids) from sedimentation and runoff. Additionally, there may be
changes in runoff patterns from these construction activities. For the proposed project, approximately 90
navigable waterways will be crossed, including a 3 km crossing of the Yangtze River.
Impacts to surface waters are expected to be minimal since all water bodies will be spanned without any
placement of supporting structures within the water bodies. Temporary impacts during construction are
expected to be short-lived and minimal since most towers and all substations are placed as far from water
bodies as possible. Where tower placement is near a water body (e.g., Yangtze River ), appropriate
sediment control practices will be employed.



Page 64                                  ANNEX 10
Waste Discharge from Substations
Normal substation operation will produce minimal amounts of sanitary waste, which will be treated and
disposed in accordance with China's standards.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are illegal in China and therefoire will not be used in the project.
Substations design will include a system for collection and treatrnent of runoff waters that may contain
oil from accidental spills and leaks.
Vegetative Removal and Wildlife Habitat Loss
The proposed transmission corridor crosses primarily rural agricultural lands where minimal, if any,
undisturbed vegetation exists. Approximately 900,000 fruit trees and other planted varieties will be
removed. This domesticated vegetation is sufficiently fragmentecl so that it does not serve as important
wildlife habitat and will be replaced in the new resettlement areas. Therefore, no significant losses of
natural habitat or natural vegetation is anticipated.
Wetlands
Shenyang Lake is an area of potential biological significance that will be traversed by the transmission
line. Construction of access roads must be properly designed to ensure runoff patterns are not
significantly affected, thereby maintaining the existing hydrologic balance and the existing ecosystem
function.
Herbicides are not used in China for vegetative clearance. Manual clearance is used.
Biodiversity, Wildlife and Endangered Species
Excluding Sheyang Lake, there are no endangered, threatened, or sensitive species along the
transmission line route, and there should be no significant impacts to the biodiversity or forestial and
aquatic wildlife of Jiangsu Province. No impact to the Yangtze River Dolphin or fishery resources in the
Yangtze River are anticipated from the 3 km river span. The transmission line is also not in the path of
any migratory birds.
Land Use
Land acquired for tower pads will be removed from its current use. However, the amount of land is
minimal (42.88 ha for tower pads and 42.6 ha for substations), and most current use is agricultural. The
resulting productive land loss (crops for which farmers will be compensated in accordance with policies
and regulations of China) is minimal (0.0016 percent of all Jiangsu Province cultivated land) and of
inconsequential significance.
For the Nanjing urban component, the transmission line will utilize an existing 220 kV route, so no
changes to land use will occur. The substation sites have been selected and will be developed in
accordance with the Nanjing Municipality City Plan.
Sensitive Receptors



Page 65                                   ANNEX 10
Transmission line routing has been selected to avoid, to the greatest extent possible, all schools,
hiospitals, and residential areas. A minimum distance of 1 km has been maintained for all schools,
hiospitals and similar areas, and a buffer zone of 200 m between the substation and the nearest residence.
T'ransportation
Chinese regulations for tower design and placement will ensure no interference to vehicular, river and
rail traffic. Construction will be scheduled to afford the least obstruction to major road corridors.
The transmission line corridor does not occur within the flight path of any intemational, local or regional
airports, and should therefore not influence air traffic in any way.
Archaeological Resources
Jiangsu Province has known human habitation for thousands of years. As a consequence, much of the
area is rich in cultural resources. Transmission line routes and substation sites were planned with
participation of the Jiangsu Bureau of Antiquities. Therefore, all known site of cultural significance have
been avoided. In addition, Jiangsu Bureau of Antiquities has strict requirements for chance finds. If such
a find occurs, construction is immediately halted and Jiangsu Bureau of Antiquities contacted. The
Beneficiary, ECEPGC, and its subsidiary company, JPEPC, will follow these procedures.
'ublic Consultation
During the EIA preparation, 30 meetings were held to inform the affected villages and persons about the
environmental issues associated with the project and discuss the measures to mitigate them. All
concerned environmental, cultural, and academic institutions have been consulted and collaborated in
designing the environmental mitigating measures.



B: ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING, MITIGATION AND COSTS
TABLE 1.1: ENVIRONMENT MONITORING FOR SUBSTATIONS
Period      Key Environment Issue      Cost       Monitoring Agencies    Responsible                         Supervisory Agencies
(Y'000)                            Institutions
Noise                         300
Dust emission                 100
Agricultural ecology          500
Construction    Sewage                      400      NEPRI               ECEPGC & JPEPC  Environmental Protection Bureau at Provincial, City and County
Land occupation                 -                                             level
Land removal            see RAP (I) (II)                                                                                                        -U
Subtotal                    1,300                                                                                                               a0
Noise                         350
Operation     Electric Field                350      NEPRI               ECEPGC & JPEPC  Environmental Protection Bureau at Provincial, City and County
Waste Water                  400                                             level
Subtotal                    1,100
Total                       2,400
* Noise monitoring will be done once during construction and once per half year during substation operation.
* Dust will be monitored once per half month during construction.
* Electric field will be monitored every year during operation.
* Waste water will be monitored every half month during construction and every three month during operation.
* Monitoring equipment is already available. No purchases required.
z
z
a



TABLE 1.2: ENVIRONMENT MITIGATION MEASURES AND COSTS FOR SUBSTATIONS
Period      Key Environment Issue               Mitigating Measures                   Cost         Responsible           Supervisory Agencies
(Y'000)       Institutions
Noise                   Use of low noise construction machinery; especially  100
no use of high-noise machinery in night
Dust emission           Construction enclosure                                50
Agricultural ecology    Vegetation temporarily destroyed during construction  See RAP (I) (II)
to be duly recovered
Construction   Sewage                 Septic tank treatment                                200      ECEPGC & JPEPC Environmental Protection Bureau at
Provincial, City and County level.
Land occupation         Occupying as little land as possible during
construction
Land removal            Compensation according to stipulation, removed  see RAP (I) (II)
household to be duly and properly arranged
Carrying out education for construction personnel.    50
Environmental protection
training and education  Carrying out environmental protection training for   350
administrative personnel
CD
0)
Subtotal                                                                     750                                                               a)
Noise                   Use of low noise machinery; enhancement of           100
enclosure, adoption of sound insulation measures
and afforestation
Operation     Electric Field          Use of substation equipment within the radiation     150      ECEPGC & JPEPC Environmental Protection Bureau at
limited and application of screening measures                               Provincial, City and County level.
during design
Waste Water             Treatment to China's standards                       100
Enhance of environmental protection education for
Environmental Protection  nearby resident
training and education  Carrying out environmental protection training for   300
administrative personnel
Subtotal                                                                     650
,Total                  I__                                                 1,400     1                                  _
z
z
m
x



TABLE 2.1: ENVIRONMENT MONITORING FOR TRANSMISSION LINES
Period             Key Environment Issue         Cost       Monitoring     Responsible                        Supervisory Agencies
(Y'000)      Agencies       Institutions
Noise                              200
Land occupation                    400
Agricultural Production loss  See RAP (I) (II)
Construction  Trees removal               See RAP (I) (II)    NEPRI   ECEPGC & JPEPC  Environmental Protection Bureau at Provincial, City and Country
Traffic crossing                   100                                     level
Cultural relics and scenic spots   100
Protection                   See RAP (I) (II)
Subtotal                           800
Noise                              200
Electric Field                      150
Operation     Agricultural Production                -        NEPRI   ECEPGC & JPEPC  Environmental Protection Bureau at Provincial, City and Country
Traffic crossing                                                           level
CD
Subtotal                           350                                                                                                      CD
,Total                            1,150
* Monitoring equipment available - No purchase.
* Noise will be monitored once during construction and once per half year during line operation.
* Electric field will be monitored every year during operation.
z
z
m
x
a



TABLE 2.2: ENVIRONMENT MITIGATION MEASURES AND COSTS FOR TRANSMISSION LINES
Period     Key Environment Issue                Alleviating measures                    Cost         Responsible           Supervisory Agencies
(Y'000)        Institutions
Noise                  Use of low noise construction machinery; especially no  100
use of high-noise machinery in night
Land occupation        Occupation of as little farmland as possible; land        -
temporarily used to be duly recovered
Agricultural Production   Compensation according to the stipulations for destroyed See RAP (I) (II)
loss                      crops and duly recovered
Construction  Trees removal         High arbors cut down under the line corridor duly  See RAP (I) (II) ECEPGC & JPEPC  Environmental Protection Bureau at
compensated and afforestation at other places                                   Provincial, City and County level
Traffic crossing       Crossing traffic during lines construction should be    200
completed by negotiation with the traffic department
Cultural relics and scenic  Avoidance of cultural relics and scenic spots during line  100
spots                     route selection
Protection             Avoidance of densely residential quarters during line   300
route selection; removal to be duly compensated and
arranged
Environmental protection  Carrying out education for construction personnel and  300                                                            eD
training and education    residents nearby                                                                                                      Co
Carrying out environmental protection training for
administrative personnel                            300
Subtotal                                                                     1,300
Noise                  Use of low noise machinery;                             100
Operation    Electric Field         Line and wire design according to Chinese standards     100      ECEPGC & JPEPC  Environmental Protection Bureau at
Traffic crossing       Traffic safety and sufficient safety margin considered in  ---                      Provincial, City and County level
design.
Environmental protection  Carrying out education for construction personnel and  100
training and education    residents nearby
Carrying out environmental protection training for
administrative personnel                            100
Subtotal                                                                       400
Total                  I_1,700                                                                                                                   >
X
2
m
x



Page 70                                           ANNEX 11
ANNEX 11: PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND
SCHEDULE
Planned (at final PCD stage)         Actual
A. Project Budget (US$'000)                                        370                        206.5/a
B. Project Schedule
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)                             03/18/1997                   03/18/97
Appraisal mission departure                                      01/15/,98                   01/09/98
Negotiations                                                    04/13/1998                   02/23/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                                   10/15/1998                   09/30/98
Prepared by: East China Electric Power Group Company.
Preparation assistance: Borrower: CRISPP; PHRD; Bank Budget
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                                  Specialty
Bernard Baratz                                     Environmental Specialist
Noureddine Berrah                                          Economist
Weigong Cao                                           Power Engineer
Clifford Garstang                                          Lawyer
Philip Daltrop                                            Lawyer
Ranjit Lamech                                Power Sector Restructuring Specialist
Norma Leon                                            Task Assistant
Elaine Sun                                          Financial Analyst
Junhui Wu                                            Power Engineer
Jianping Zhao                                         Energy Specialist
Youxuan Zhu                                        Resettlement Specialist
/a As of January 31, 1998. Total cost is estimated at US$250,000.



Page 71                                   ANNEX 12
ANNEX 12: DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE*
A. Project Implementation Plan, December 1997
EB. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
* First-Stage Resettlement Action Plan (December 1997)
* Environmental Impact Assessment Report (December 1997)
* Economic Justification of the East China (Jiangsu) Transmission Project (November 1997)
* Initial Market Design for East China Power Network (November 1997)
* Technical Report (November 1997)
* Agreed-Upon Procedures Report on Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended
December 31, 1994, 1995 and 1996-December 1997
* First-Stage Resettlement Action Plan
* Cost/Benefit Analysis in electronic files
* Risk Analysis in electronic files
*Including electronic files



Page 72                                                                  ANNEX 13
ANNEX 13: STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN
CHINA
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio, as of January 31, 1998
Differenre
Loan or                                                                              Original amount in US$ million        between expected and
Credit     Fiscal                                                                                  Cancel-     Undis-    actual disbursemnents /a
Project ID     Nmber        year           Borrower                     Purpose              IEBRD       IDA        lations     bursed     Orig.    Frmn Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans and Credits: 192
Active Leans
CN-PE-40185   IBRD42370        1998   PRC                      Shandong Environment              95.00       0.00       0.00         95.00       1.00      0.00
CN-PE-34081  IBRD42000        1997   PRC                      Xiaolangdi Multi. II              230.00       0.00       0.00        230.00      26.67      0.00
CN-PE-34081 BRD42001         1997   PRC                       Xiaolangdi Multi. 11             200.00       0.00       0.00        199.08      26.67      0.00
CN-PE-3590    IBRD41870       1997   PRC                      QinbaMts. Povty Red                30.00       0.00       0.00         30.00       4.20      0.00
CN-PE-3590   IDAN0280         1997   PRC                      Qinba Mts. Povty Red                0.00     150.00       0.00        149.56      4.20       0.00
CN-PE-3635   IBRD4063A        1997   PRC                       Voc. Ed. Reform Proj              10.00       0.00       0.00         10.00       4.33      0.00
CN-PE-3635   IDA28980         1997   PRC                       Voc. Ed. Reform Proj               0.00      20.00       0.00         19.02       4.33      0.00
CN-PE-3637   IDAN0270         1997   PRC                      Natl RurWater IE                    0.00      70.00       0.00         70.85       2.01      0.00
CN-PE-36405   IBRD41790        1997   PRC                     Wanjiazhai Water Tra              400.00       0.00       0.00        400.00      43.34      0.00
CN-PE-3643    IBRD40990       1997   PRC                      Xinjiang Highways 11              300.00       0.00       0.00        268.81      10.81      0.00
CN-PE-3650   IBRD41720        1997   GOC                      Tuoketuo Power/Inner              400.00       0.00       0.00        400.00       9.14      0.00
CN-PE-3654    IBRD41240        1997   PRC                      HunaniGuang HWY2-NH2             400.00       0.00       0.00        400.00      33.34      0.00
CN-PE-36952  IDA29540         1997   PRC                       Basic Ed. IV                       0.00      85.00       0.00         84.77      -2.44      0.00
CN-PE-38988  IBRD41610         1997   PRC                     HeilongjiangADP                   120.00       0.00       0.00        120.00       5.34      0.00
CN-PE-44485  IBRD41970        1997                             Shanghai Waigaoqiao              400.03       0.00       0.00       400.00        0.00      0.00
CN-PE-34618  IBRD3967A        1996   PRC                      LaborMarketDev.                    10.03       0.00       0.00         10.00      13.13      0.00
CN-PE-34618  IDA28000         1996   PRC                      Labor Market Dev.                   0.00      20.00       0.00         16.37      13.13      0.00
CN-PE-3507   IBRD3933A        1996   GOC                      Ertan Hydro 11                    177.68       0.00       0.00         59.85     -45.60      0.00
CN-PE-3507    EBRD3933B        1996   GOC                     Ertan Hydro n                      88.8St      0.00       0.00         34.92     -45.60      0.00
CN-PE-3531   iBRD39800        1996   GOC                      Henan (Qinb.) Thermal             440.00)      0.00       0.00        440.00      43.18      0.00
CN-PE-3563   IBRD40010        1996   PRC                      Animal Feed                       150.01)      0.00       0.00        150.00      31.83      0.00
CN-PE-3569   iBRD39290        1996   PRC                       Shanghai-ZhejiangHi              260.00       0.00       7.75        160.42       4.51     -9.14
CN-PE-3589   IDA27940         1996   PRC                      Disease Prevention                  0.00     100.00       0.00         84.05      32.69      0.00
CN-PE-3594   IBRD40280         1996   PRC                      Gansu Hexi Corridor               60.010      0.00       0.00         60.00       7.15      0.00
CN-PE-3594   IDA28700          1996   PRC                      Gansu Hexi Corridor                0.00      90.00       0.00         74.02       7.15      0.00
CN-PE-3599   IBRD40550        1996   Yunnan Prov. Gov.         Yunnan Environment               125.00       0.00       0.00        125.00      -2.73      0.00
CN-PE-3599   IDA28920         1996   Yunnan Prov. Gov.        Yunnan Environment                  0.0(      25.00       0.00         17.19      -2.73      0.00
CN-PE-3602   iBRD39660        1996   PRC                      Hubei Urban Env. Pro              125.01)      0.00       0.00        125.00     40.81       0.00
CN-PE-3602   IDA27990         1996   PRC                      Hubei Urban Env. Pro                0.00      25.00       0.00         17.15     40.81       0.00
CN-PE-3638   iBRD40440        1996   PRC                       Seeds Sector Commer.              80.0()      0.00       0.00         80.00      10.10      0.00
CN-PE-3638   IDA28860         1996   PRC                       Seeds Sector Commer.               0.0(1     20.00       0.00         10.28      10.10      0.00
CN-PE-3646   iBRD40450        1996   PRC                      Chongqing Ind Pol Ct              170.011      0.00       0.00        170.00      39.33      0.00
CN-PE-3648   iBRD39870        1996   Shanghai Mun. Govt        Second Shanghai Sewe             250.011      0.00       0.00       228.24      49.77       0.00
CN-PE-3649   IDA28340         1996   China                    Shanxi PovertyAllev                 0.01     100.00      0.00          59.40     -18.88      0.00
CN-PE-3652   iBRD39860        1996   PRC                      2nd Shaanxi Prov Hwy              210.00       0.00       0.00        183.98      31.64      0.00
CN-PE-36950  IDA28310         1996   PRC                      Basic Ed. Poor III                  0.0(1    100.00       0.00         59.27     -13.40      0.00
CN-PE-40513  iBRD40270        1996   PRC                      2nd Henan Prov Hwy                210.00       0.00      0.00         198.00     20.00       0.00
CN-PE-3493   1BRD39106         1995   PRC                      Inland Waterways                 210.00       0.00       0.00        161.99     23.39       0.00
CN-PE-3571   1iRD38976         1995   PRC                     Railways VII                      400.00       0.00       0.00       392.00      60.67       0.00
CN-PE-3585   iBRD37SS0         1995   GOC                      Shenyang ind. Reform             175.00       0.00       0.00        134.69     21.03       0.00
CN-PE-3596   iBRD3874A         1995   PRC                     Yangtze Basin Water                97.26       0.00       0.00        85.25      -21.83      0.00
CN-PE-3596   IDA27100         1995   PRC                      YangtzeBasinWater                   0.00     110.00       0.00         10.11     -21.83      0.00
CN-PE-3598   iBRD37810        1995                            LiaoningEnvironment               110.00       0.00      0.00          79.53     37.33       0.00
CN-PE-3600   IBRD3847A         1995   PRC                     Technology Developme              194.95       0.00       0.00        190.36      27.59      0.00
CN-PE-3603   IBRD3773A        1995   PRC                      Ent. Housing Soc. Se              262.51       0.00      0.00        257.66      134.20      0.00
CN-PE-3603   IDA26420         1995   PRC                      Ent Housing Soc. Se                 0.00      75.00       0.00         15.82     134.20      0.00
CN-PE-36041  iBRD38736        1995   MOF                      Fiscal & Tax Ref. &                25.00       0.00       0.00         25.00     29.67       0.00
CN-PE-36041  iDA27090         1995   MOF                      Fiscal & tax ref. &                 0.00      25.00       0.00         18.14     29.67       0.00
CN-PE-3612   iBRD37870        1995   PRC                      Xinjiang Highwayl                 150.00       0.00       0.00         95.75     41.43       0.00
CN-PE-3634   IDA26550         1995   PRC                      Maternal Child Healt                0.00      90.00       0.00         39.89      10.04      0.00
CN-PE-3636   IDA26510         1995   PRC                      BasicEduclnPoor&                   0.00     100.00       0.00        28.95        -.79      0.00
CN-PE-3639   iBRD39066         1995   PRC                      SouthwestPov. Reduc               47.50       0.00       0.00        40.63       20.22      0.00
CN-PE-3639   IDA27440         1995   PRC                       Southwest Pov. Reduc               0.00     200.00       0.00        115.18      20.22      0.00
CN-PE-3642   iBRD3846A        1995                            ZhejiangPowerDevt                 154.15       0.00       0.00        146.53     41.98       0.00
CN-PE-3642   IBRD3846B        1995                            ZhejiangPowerDevt                 215.67       0.00      0.00         202.99     41.98       0.00
CN-PE-3647   IDA26540          1995   PRC                     Economic Law Reform                 0.00      10.00       0.00          7.08       4.65      0.00
CN-PE-36947  iBRD3848A         1995   GOC                      Sichuan Transmission             270.00       0.00       0.00        235.06     149.24      0.00
CN-PE-37156  IBRD3914A         1995   PRC                      Iodine Def. Disorder               7.00       0.00       0.00          7.00      18.87      0.00
CN-PE-37156  iDA27560          1995   PRC                      Iodine Def Disorder                0.00      20.00       0.00         13.40      18.87      0.00
CN-PE-3502   IDA25390          1994   MOH                     RurHealth Manpower                  0.00     110.00       0.00         50.26      26.16      0.00
CN-PE-3504   iBRD37480        1994   PRC                      Hebei/Henan National H'ways       380.00       0.00       0.00        146.02      17.66      0.00
CN-PE-3540   IDA26160          1994   PRC                      Loess Plateau                      0.00     150.00       0.00         57.45     -28.79      0.00
CN-PE-3557   IDA26230          1994   PRC                      Forest Resource Dev                0.00     200.00       0.00        110.39      39.34      0.00
CN-PE-3562   iBRD37270         1994   PRC                      Xiaolangdi Multipurpose          460.00       0.00       0.00         58.71      35.38      0.00
CN-PE-3586   IBRD37110         1994   PRC                      Shanghai Environment             160.00       0.00       0.00         92.00      64.58      0.00
CN-PE-3593   IDA25710          1994   PRC                      Songliao Plain ADP                 0.00     205.00       0.00         74.S3     -11.39      0.00
CN-PE-3595   IDA25630          1994   PRC                     Red Soils II Develop                0.00     150.00       0.00         38.46     -11.64      0.00
CN-PE-3609   IBRD3716A         1994   GOC                      Sichuan Gas Dev& Conservation    175.45       0.00       0.00        167.97      64.64      0.00
CN-PE-3622   1B1RD36520       1994   Shanghai Municipal Govt   Shanghai MTP II                  150.00       0.00       0.00         10.39      10.38      0.00
CN-PE-3626   IBRD3681A        1994   GOC                      Fujian Prov Highway                80.33       0.00       0.00         70.13        .79      0.00



Page 73                                                                ANNEX 13
Difference
Loan or                                                                            Original amount in US$ million       between expected and
Credit     Fiscal                                                                                Cancel-     Undis-    actual disbursements La
Project ID     Nmber        year          Borrower                    Purpose              IBRD        IDA       lations     bursed     Orig.    Frm Rev'd
CN-PE-3633   iBRD3687A        1994   GovernmentofPRC         Telecommunications               132.76      0.00       0.00        125.49     123.66     0.00
CN-PE-3641   IBRD3718A        1994   PRC                     Yangzhou Thermal Power           248.16      000        0.00        115.41      13.07     0.00
CN-PE-3644   IDA26050         1994   PRC                     Xiaolangdi Resettlement            0.00     110.00      0.00         49.21        .60      0.00
CN-PE-3473   IDA24750         1993   PRC                     Zhejiang Multicities               0.00     110.00      0.00         61.04      59.07     0.00
CN-PE-3509   IDA24570         1993   PRC                     Changhun Wat Supp&                 0.00     120.00      0.00         57.15      44.48     0.00
CN-PE-3512   IBRD35520        1993   Govt of PRC             Shanghai Port Rest               150.00      0.00      25.74          545       -466       -.69
CN-PE-3518   IBRD35300        1993   PRC                     Guangdong Prov Transport         240.00       000       0.00         2669      -13.00     0.00
CN-PE-3526   iBRD3515A        1993   GOC                     Shuikou 11                        43 86       0.00      0.00         31.74      31.67     25.07
CN-PE-3533   IBRD3572A        1993                           Tianjin Ind. II                   82.68       0.00      0.00         73.98      52.47     0.00
CN-PE-3559   IDA24620         1993   PRC                     Agric Suppon Services              0.00     115.00      0.00         13.S8     -15.90     0.00
CN-PE-3561   iDA241I10        1993   PRC                     Sichuan ADP                        0.00     147.00      0.00         29.01      10.86     0.00
CN-PE-3567   IDA24710         1993   PRC                     Effective Teaching Services        0.00     100.00      0.00         52.13      47.96     0.00
CN-PE-3570   iBRD35810        1993   PRC                     Railway VI                       420.00       0.00      0.00        158.23     105.92     0.00
CN-PE-3580   IBRD35820        1993   PRC                     SoJiangsu Environ. Protect       250.00      0.00       000          35.62      10.12     0.00
CN-PE-3581   iBRD35310        1993   PRC                     Henan Prov. Transport            120.00       0.00      0.00         1719       13.88     0.00
CN-PE-3592   iDA24470         1993   PRC                     Ref Instl & Preinvest(CRISP)       000       50.00      0.00         24.19      22.46     0.00
CN-PE-3597   IBRD3560A        1993   PRC                     Taihu Basin Flood Control         8865        0.00      0.00         69.49      61.91     0.00
CN-PE-3597   IDA24630         1993   PRC                     Taihu Basin Flood Control          0.00     100.00      0.00          5 07      61.91     0.00
CN-PE-3616   IBRD3606A        1993   PRC                     Tianhuangping Hydro              196.60       0.00      0.00        126.90      76 02     0.00
CN-PE-3623   IDA24230         1993   PRC                     Financial Sector Ta                0.00     60.00       0.00         35.05      14.21     0.00
CN-PE-3627   IBRD3624A        1993   PRC                     Grain Distribution Proj          325.00       0.00      0.00        325.00     333 88    -85.45
CN-PE-3627   IDA25180         1993   PRC                     Grain Distribution Proj            0.00     165.00      0.00         80.04     333.88    -85.45
CN-PE-3632   IDA25220         1993   ROC                     Environment Tech Ass               000       50.00      000          17.11      15.80     0.00
C14-PE-3486   IBRD3406A       1992                           Railways V                        33 73       0.00      0.00         30.05      24.40     0.00
C14-PE-3492   iBRD34120       1992   GOC                     Daguangba-Hainan                  30.00       0 00      0.00          4.02       2.24     0.00
C14-PE-3492   IDA23050        1992   GOC                     Daguangba-Hainan                   0 00      37.00      0.00          .51        2.24     0.00
CN-PE-3503   IBRD3462A        1992                           Zouxian Thermal Powe              26.78       0.00      0.00         26.01      11.56     0.00
CN-PE-3505   IBRD3433S        1992   PRC                     Yanshi Thermal                   176.72       0.00      0.00          1.15       .04      0.00
C4-PE-3534   IBRD3471A        1992   PRC                     ZhejiangProvTransp                70.13       0.00      0.00         63.56      51.56     0.00
CN-PE-3544   IDA23390         1992   PRC                     Educ Dev In Poor Provinces         0.00     130.00      0.00          5.03      -7.63      0.00
CN-PE-3555   IDA23070         1992   PRC                     Guangdong Ag. Devt.                0.00     162.00      0.00         25.77       9.68     0.00
C4-PE-3556   IDA22940         1992   PRC                     Tarim Basin Irrigati               0.00     125,00      0.00          .04      -10.80      0.00
ClN-PE-3564   IBRD3415A       1992   Beijing Municipality    Beijing Environment               32.90       0.00      0.00         29.32      27.78      0.00
Cli-PE-3564   iDA23120        1992   Beijing Municipality    Beijing Environment                0.00      80.00      0.00          3.77      27.78     0.00
Cli-PE-3565   iDA22960        1992                           Shanghai Metro Trans               0.00     60.00       0.00          3.83       .69      0.00
Cli-PE-3568   IDA23870        1992   PRC                     Tianjin Urb Dev & En               0.00     100.00      0.00         33.96      23.70     0.00
CN-PE-3577   IBRD34430        1992   PRC                     Cement                            02.70      O.00       0.00          .20       -7.82     000
CN-PE-3587   IDA23360         1992   PRC                     Rural Wat Supp & San               0.00     110.00      0.00          6.32       273    -1035
CN-PE-3624   1DA23170         1992   Min. of Public Health   Infectious Diseases                0.00     129.60      0.00         59.07     44.15     33.32
CN-PE-3478   IDA22100         1991   PRC                     Key Studies Developm               0.00     131.20      0.00          I.OI       -.62     0.00
CN-PE-3560   iDA22420         1991   PRC                     Henan Agric. Devt.                 0.00     110.00      0.00          6.18      -2.34     0.00
CN-PE-3582   iBRD3337T        1991   PRC                     Irrig. Agric. Intens              45.05      0.00       0.00          2.37      -7.84     0.00
CN-PE-3558   IDA21590         1990   PRC                     Hebei Agric. Devt.                 0.00     150.00        12          163      -13.11    -12.81
CN-PE-3483   IDA20090         1989   PRC                     Reg.Health Services                0.00     52.00       0.00           08       -3.61     O.00
CN-PE-3472   IBRD2968S        1988   PRC                     Railway IV                       171.30      0.00       0 00          2.04      2.05      0.00
CN-PE-3474   IDA18850         1908   PRC                     Northernm rigation                 0.00     65.98       0.00           70        376      000
Total                                                                                       11,633 40   4,819.78    33.61     10,262.34   3,048.82   -145.50
Active Loans           Closed Loans               Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                                    6,205.96               11,917.03             1S,122.99
of which has been repaid:                                 6.27                 1,957.28               1,963.55
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                                    16,413.27                9,634 30             26,047.57
Amount sold                                                           0.00                    0.00                   0 00
Of which repaid                                                      0.00                    0.00                  0.00
Total Undisbursed                                                 10,262.34                   4.33               10,266.67
/n  Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Page 74                                  ANNEX 13
STATEMENT OF IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio, as of October 31, 1997
(In US$ Million)
Committed                       Disbursed
FY Approval     Company       Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1985/92     Guangzhou Auto       1.88    4.55   0.00   0.00     1.88    4.55    0.00    0.00
1987/92/94   China Bicycles      8.50    3.39   0.00   0.00     8.50    3.39    0.00    0.00
1988        Crown Elec           .52    0.00   0.00   0.00      .52    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993        Shenzhen PCCP        3.76     .99   0.00   0.00     3.76     .99    0.00    0.00
1993        Yantai Cement       16.64    1.95   0.00   8.39    16.64    1.95    0.00    8.89
1994        China Walden JV      0.00    6.75   0.00   0.00     0.00    3.45    0.00    0.00
1994        China Walden Mgt     0.00    .01   0.00   0.(0      0.00     .01    0.00    0.00
1994        Dalian Glass        20.50    2.40   0.00  40.50    20.50    2.40    0.00   40.50
1994        Dynamic Fund         0.00   12.35   0.00   0.00     0.00    9.46    0.00    0.00
1994        Plant. Timnber      10.00    1.00   0.00  20.00    10.00    1.00    0.00   20.00
1995        Dupont Suzhou       24.92    4.15   0.00  52.00    19.34    4.15    0.00   30.66
1995        Newbridge Inv.       0.00   10.00   0.00   0.00     0.00    6.60    0.00    0.00
1995        Suzhou PVC          22.00    2.48   0.00  22.20     0.00    2.48    0.00    0.00
1996        Beijing Hormel       5.00     .50   0.00   5.50     4.29     .50    0.00    4.71
1996        Fairyoung Ports      0.00    4.98   0.00   0.00     0.00    4.98    0.00    0.00
1996        Jingyang            40.00    0.00   0.00 100.00    34.29    0.00    0.00   85.71
1996        Nanjing Kumho       16.00    3.81   0.00  45.50    13.63    3.81    0.00   38.75
1996        Tianjin Kumho       11.17    0.00   0.00  33.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996        Weihai Weidongri     4.47    0.00   0.00   0.00     4.47    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997        Orient Finance      10.00    0.00   0.00  20.00     3.33    0.00    0.00    6.67
Total Portfolio:             195.36   59.31   0.00 347.59   141.15   49.72    0.00  235.89
Approvals Pending Commitment
1996         CALTEX Ocean       31.33    0.00   0.00  66.00
1997         Chinefarge         12.80    0.00   0.00  20.00
1997         Derkwei overseas    0.00    5.00   0.00   0.00
1997         Derkwei shanghai    13.00    0.00   0.00  38.00
1997         Derkwei shenzhen    12.00    0.00   0.00  33.00
1997         Liaocheng jiamin    18.00    0.00   0.00  18.00
1996         Nanjing Huining     4.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1997         Ningbo              0.00    2.00   0.00   0.00
1997         Nissan/Dongfeng    20.20    0.00   0.00  27.00
1997         PTP Holdings        0.00    1.50   0.00   0.00
1997         PTP Hubei          13.00    0.00   0.00  25.00
1998         PTP Hubei Blinc     0.00    0.00   0.00   1.50
1997         PTP Leshan          4.20    0.00   0.00   0.00
1996         Shandong Sand      17.00    0.00   0.00  25.00
1997         SMC                14.00    0.00   0.00  14.00
1997         Suzhou PVC Add.    7.90    0.00   0.00   6.40
1996         Tianjin             9.10    0.00   0.00   9.10
1996         Xiamen Xian        10.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
Total Pending Commitment:    186.53    8.50   0.00 283.00



Page 75                                                         ANNEX 14
ANNEX 14: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               East    Low-
China      Asia  Income       Development diamond'
Population mid-1 996 (millions)                     1,215.4     1,726    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                              750        890      500                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USS)                               906.1     1,542    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (I%)                                         1.1       1.3      1.7      GNP                               Gross
Laborforce (6)                                          1.1       1.3      1.7      p.,                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                             capita                        enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)               9
Urban population (% of total popufation)                31         31       29
Ltfe expectancy at birth (years)                        70         68       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 five births)                33         40       69               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              16
Access to safe water (% of population)                  90         49       53
illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    19         17       34
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  118        117      105                 China
Male                                                 119        120      112                Lowincome group
Female                                               117        116       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATiOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995     1996
Economic ratios'
GDP (billions US$)                           160.3    378.1     755.9    916.4
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 30.3     37.8      40.5     42.4              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP              5.2      9.9      21.0     18.5
Gross domestic savingsiGDP                    30.6     33.7      42.0     43.9
Gross national savings/GDP                    30.6     34.0      40.5     43.1
Current account balance/GDP                   -0.2     -3.9       0.2      0.4
Interest payments/GDP                          ..       0.2       0.7      0.6      Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                  ..      5.5      16.9      15.8
Total debt service/exports                      ..      8.4       9.9      9.8
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..       ..        ..    14.3
Present value of debt/exports                   ..       ..        ..    72.3                  Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96     1995      1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                 -     China
GDP                                  8.3      9.9      10.5       9.7      8.5
GNPpercapita                         7.5      8.4       7.9       8.8      7.6                Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       17.2     13.4       9.6       7.4      8.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995     1996      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(Y. of GDP)
Agriculture                                   32.0     28.4      20.6     20.0      25
Industry                                     42.8      43.1      48.4     48.9      20
Manufacturing                               31.6     35.4       37.6     38.9
Services                                     25.2      28.5      31.1     31.1      o
Private consumption                          61.9      53.1      45.7     44.9             51   92   93   94   55   95
Generalgovemmentconsumption                   7.6      13.2      12.2     11.2                     GDI        GDP
Importsofgoodsandservices                     5.0      14.0      19.4     17.0
1975-85  1988-96      1995     1996    r
(average annual gnowth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                    5.4      4.3       5.0       5.1     4
Industry                                      10.4     13.5      14.1     12.3
Manufacturing                               13.0     12.7       13.3     12.3     20.
Services                                       9.8      8.9       7.9      7.9
Private consumption                            8.2      S.6       6.3      3.3
General govemment consumption                  9.0     10.2                11.4            91   92   93   94   95   96
Gross domestic investment                      9.8     10.1      19.1     16.6    -20
Imports of goods and services                22.1      11.1       5.0       8.6                   Expors     Imports
Gross national product                         9.0      9.8       9.0       9.9             -
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 76                                                          ANNEX 14
China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995     1996
Domestfc prices                                                                    Inflation
(% change)
Consumerpnces                                                                                                .29.2  1771 8.3
Implicit GDP deflator                        -0.9     10.1      13.1       6.1
Government finance
(% of GDP)                                                                            w
Current revenue                                 ..    25.5       11.2     11.4
Current budget balance                          ..     6.7        0.5      0.6                   GDP def. -0-CPI
Overall surplus/defict                         ..    -0.5       -1.7      -1.5
TRADE
1975     1985      1995     1996    F
(millions US$)                                                                     Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                             ..  27,350   148,770  151,073
Food                                         ..   3,803       9,954   10,232
Fuel                                          ..   7,132      5,335    5,929
Manufactures                                  ..  13,522   127,283  129,141
Total imports (cif)                            ..  42,252   132,078  138,828
Food                                         ..     1,881     9,126    7,866
Fuel and energy                                      172      5,127    6,877
Capital goods                                 ..  18,694    57,481   63,901
Export pnce index (1987=100)                    ..      92       133      132
Import price index (1987=100)                  ..       78       132      131                   n Exports   m Imports
Termsoftrade(1987=100)                          ..     118       101      100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               7,828   28,163   147,240  153,740
Imports of goods and services               8,097   41,149   135,284  141,340
Resource balance                             -269  -12,986    11,956   12,400              F-
Net income                                      0      932   -11,774  -10,370
Net current transfers                           0      171     1,400    1,580
Current account balance,
before ofFicial capital transfers          -269  -11,883      1,582    3,610
Financing items (net)                          .,   9,443    20,887   28,030
Changes in net reserves                         ..   2,440   -22,469  -31,640
Memo.                                                                                                                     .
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)                 16,853    80,312  111,690
Conversion rate (localWUSS)                   1.9      2,9       8.4       8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            ..  16,696   118,090  128,817
IBRD                                                498      7,209    7,616                         A     B
IDA                                                 431      7,038    7,579            2507              7579
Total debt service                             ..   2,478    15,066   15,756                                   2501
IBRD                                          ..     26        810      840
IDA                                                    4        63       73                                      E
21737
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              ..      117       328      248
Officialcreditors                            ..   1,117      7,902    4,359
Private creditors                            ..   2,867      5,013    6,454
Foreign direct investment                     ..   1,659    35,849   40,180
Portfolio equity                             ..        0     2,807    3,466                  F
63977
World Bank program
Commitments                                  ..   1,092      2,850    1,900      A- IBRD                     E - Bilaterai
Disbursements                                ..    565       2,269    2,097      B-IDA    D-Othermultilateral  F- Private
Prtncipal repayments                         ..       0        364      364      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net fows                                      ..    565      1,905    1,734  .II
Interest payments                            ..      29        509      549
Net transfers                                ..    536       1,396    1,185
Development Economics                                                                                               1/29/98
Note: The dollar estimates for China's GNP per capita, GNP and GDP are preliminary figures based on an on-going World Bank study of
China's GDP. They were calculated to facilitate inter-country comparisons. Official statistics are used as the basis for all other economic
analysis contained in this document.



SHANDONG                                                                                                        CHINA
EAST CHINA/JIANGSU POWER
TRANSMISSION PROJECT
'~~~~o~~~'                                      o,s~~~~~~~~sreo.....Il                    EAST CHINA  POWER  GRID
1'~  RENGZMJIANG                                                                                                                           0VPOEtITKN
U                    U    TERmAL PowER PLANTS (mw)
G-     ,iYqRO POWER PLANT (MW)
S                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NUCLETAR POWER PLANT (MW)-
*  ~~~        0 ~~SUBSTATIONS IMYAI
01 ~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~     ~       ~~~                         DC-AC CONVERSION
STATIONS
S,h-,                              h                                     0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5SELECTED CITIES AND) TOWNS
G.A--  ~     ~                                                                                YNCHENG                       CT)  PROVINCE CAPITALS
12750
o                  ~~~~~~RIVERS AND CANALS
w.h.                            N   G    S   U                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GRAND CANAL
22~~~~~~~  E~~~~~~~~~~gb~~~~~~~o                                                                                     -   - ~~~~~~~~-hOPROVINCE BOUNDOARIES    322'
--INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
PINGWEI                                 0A,.                                                                                                          (INSET)
NGDU q T.                                  ~ ~~~~EosI China
W6                                  YANGDON   OR-. RUd-
NANJINANGON
32'  ~ ~ ~  HEFEI                                 0, 7                                                                        4". OY2,7R    IxZTONG
0                             0z ....
A     N     H     U     I                                                                                                                        QdONAOA  Cr,,e'"W-O
~~~7~~~5  USAN AlHANOOOA
57773  - ~~~~~~~~~~ A.7,5112A,M&,k ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    2
I  -",  -                               0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                                   
5 h~ ~ ~~h
~~CHINA    23222~~~~~FACHAG                                                                                                                                       231'
533251   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~             --                                                        102~~~~~~~-JAXN
,  230223033      J  I  A   N   G   X  I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sh                                                 Y) A 
21,VITA                                                                                                                                                                     12 1
L      301 
TI-    500        121220        -
7,  337            P3I2P3125R                         III-                              320-                             121-                              22'  05~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



RUSSIAN FEDERATION      .                                                                      CHINA
, '--              - z             .   '- > t 1EAST CHINA/JIANGSU
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
M O N G OLI A                                                               NANJING TRANSMISSION COMPONENT
//AEPE .*2PI0'E .^   t0,:                                                     220kV TRANSMISSION LINES
7                                                       -                 -     110kV TRANSMISSJON LINES
* .             *    220kV SUESTATIONS
CT      0       0   llS kVSSEBSTAEIONS
0 : GANSU SNAANUI UFNAN;UMN j 85402.qX                                                  &2                   POWER PLANTS
;     CHI NA/R    AT/ NPfI.r>s0
b .   SCdL H,            .,N-A.,  /
;o- EOl <> hSPN WI PIE  0  i./   <V
b,; ii,,,                                                                                                ,,'hY R\                           ,.
1V,77
SXA 0.PNAA
I   ?   '+/ \4 fO~~~~~~"                                           a
R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ER
/ASAA/APENA//AI//// CA.E//                                              ~~~~~~~~~~Taipingmen
Lon>luaang
Longpang~~ Ynang u O U
/                                  '1      Fengfu~~~~~~~~~~~~~V   XZhuiiangl
Shuong~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~'e                                             iu
=                                                                                                                                                       P.A~~~~~~



