EIA report for the extension Project of East China (,iangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
E231
Volume 2
Environmental Impact Assessment Report for the
Extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV
Power Transmission Project
Nanjing Environmental Protection Research Institute
For East China Electric Power Corporation
July, 2002 Nanjing, China
-1-            E1 C PNPM



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
Approved by:Zhu Fahua
Examined and approved by: Zhu Lin
Reviewed by: You Yi'an
Project manager: Zhao Gang
Report editor: Zhao Gang
Ma Yunzhe
Li Yachun



EIA report for the extension Plroject of East China (,Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
Contents
Executive Summary
1. Description of the Project
2. Environmental background of the Project
3. Potential environmental impact
4. Suggested mitigating measures
5. Environmental management plan
6. Public participation
Environmental Impact Assessment Report for the
Extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power
Transmission Project
1 Introduction and background
1.1 Status quo of Jiangsu power grid
1.2 Necessity of construction of the Project
1.3 Basis of environmental impact assessment for the Project
1.3.1 The law and regulation system in China
1.3.2 Relevant standards
1.3.3 Requirements for power transmission project by the World Bank
1.3.4 Design reports of the Project
1.3.5 Project comniitment
2 Description of the Project
2.1 Project component
2.2 Substation
2.3 The transmission lines
3 Environmental background situation
3.1 Physical environment
3.1.1 General description of Jiangsu provincial physical environment
3.1.2 Physical environment of the proposed and expansion project
3.2 Social environment
3.2.1 General description of Jiangsu provincial social environment
3.2.2 Social situation of the proposed substations and the expansion
substation
-3-



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
3.3 Ecological environment
4 The environmental impact during construction period
4.1 Identification of environmental impact
4.2 Impact on physical environment
4.2.1 Impact on waters
4.2.2 Impact on environmental air
4.2.3 Impact on acoustic environment
4.2.4 Impact on mineral resources
4.2.5 Impact on land function
4.2.6 Hydrological conditions and flood impact
4.3 Ecological environment
4.3.1 Damage to foliage and wild environment
4.3.2 Impact on agricultural ecology incurred by land occupation of
the Project
4.3.3 Impact on wetland ecological environment
4.4 Impact on social environment
4.5 Impact on living quality environment
4.5.1 Impact on cultural resource
4.5.2 Impact on scenic spots and places of interest
4.5.3 Impact on scenic view in the substation site area
4.5.4 Influx of labor force
4.5.5 Land occupation and resettlement & rehabilitation
5 Potential environmental impact during operation period
5.1 Identification of environmental impact
5.2 Impact on physical environment
5.2.1 Impact on waters
5.2.2 Impact on environmental air
5.2.3 Impact on acoustic environment
5.2.4 Impact on radiation environment
5.3 Impact on ecological environment
5.3.1 Impact on rare birds
5.3.2 Impact on ecological environment incurred by electric field and
noise
5.3.3 Impact on ecological environment of wetland
- 4 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power Transmission Project
5.4 Impact on social environment
5.4.1 Impact on traffic incurred by transmission line operation
5.4.2 Intercrossed transmission lines' impact
5.4.3 Impact on agricultural production
5.4.4 Impact on environmental sensitive areas
5.4.5 Impact on cultural resources, scenic spots and places of interest
5.4.6 Impact on scenic views
5.4.7 Influx of labor force
6 Scheme analysis
6.1 Impact with no newly built substations and power transmission
lines
6.2 Schemes comparison
6.2.1 Substations
6.2.2 Power transmission lines
7 Environmental management plan and mitigating measures
7.1 During construction period
7.2 During operation period
7.3 Land occupation and compensation
7.4 Resettlement and rehabilitation
7.5 Cultural resources
7.6 Scenic views
7.7 Protection of ecological environment
7.8 Labor safety and protection
7.9 Monitoring and training plans
8 Public participation
8.1 Public participation in site option and design
8.2 Specialized public participation investigation
8.3 Public participation investigation results
-5 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power '[ransmission Project
Executive Summary
This extension project (the Project) is proposed to make use of remaining
sum of the East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
funded by the World Bank to construct two proposed 500kV substations,
one expansion 500kV substation and two sections of 500kV transmission
lines (total 102km). The Project is currently at the stage of engineering
site-option (to substations) and route-option on the map (to transmission
lines).
Environmental impact assessment must be done for power transmission
projects according to relevant Chinese environmental protection
management laws and regulations for construction projects. In
accordance with Environmental Assessment Policy (OP) 4.01 of the
World Bank, power transmission projects belong to catalogue B which
need not complete environmental impact assessment but corresponding
environmental impact analysis.
The original version of this report was delivered to the World Bank on
May 30, 2002. On June 20, 2002, Mr. Baratz, principal expert of
environmental protection from the World Bank, reviewed the report and
provided comments. The following is updated content modified in
accordance with the comments.
The content of the executive summary is listed as follows:
1. Description of the Project
2. Environmental background of the Project
3. Potential environmental impact
4. Suggested mitigating measures
5. Environmental management plan
6. Public participation
-6 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transniission Project
1 Description of the Project
The highest voltage level of Jiangsu power grid in operation is 500kV.
Till end of 2001, it had owned 26 of 500kV transmission lines with the
length of 3207km (including inter-provincial connection lines); 10 of
500kV substations (including switching stations) and 12 sets of
transformers, with the capacity of 8000MVA.
Currently, 220kV power grid is still main network in Jiangsu Province.
The whole network has 142 of 220kV substations with 231 sets of
step-down transformers and the transferred capacity of 29549MVA and
319 of 220kV transmission lines 8062.6km long totally (including
inter-provincial connection lines).
In order to improve the 500 kV network structure in Jiangsu Province, to
meet the demand of growth in power consumption and social economy, to
lower the cost of power transmission, to enhance the reliability of
transmission in the power network, Jiangsu Province will necessarily
construct the Project.
The Project includes two proposed 500kV substations, one 500kV
substation to be expanded, a transferred capacity of 2500MVA to be
increased and 102km of 500kV transmission lines to be built. The new
lines are composed  of two   sections----2xlkm  Tianwan  Power
Station-Shanghe Substation line cut into the 500kV Lianyungang
Substation and 2xSOkm of the 500kV Longtan - 500kV Dongshanqiao
substations; they will be built by double circuit mounting on same tower.
The expansion 500kV Yancheng Substation is to add another one main
transformer, which would not cause any problem of ingoing and outgoing
lines.
One proposed substation is located in Xiabutou, Dongliu Village and
Yuanjiabian Village, Qilin Town, Jiangning County, Nanjing Municipal.
The other proposed substation, in Hexingzhuang of Yuchan Village, Yilu
- 7 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power Transmission Project
Township, Guanyun County, Lianyungang Municipal, lies at the farm
field juncture of Beiwei Group, Hexing Village and Datangwei Village.
And the expansion substation is in Tangchen Village, Guomeng Township,
Yandu County, Yancheng Municipal.
2 Environmental background of the Proiect
The proposed 500kV substations, at the engineering site-option stage
currently, are open and wide around from site investigation, will not
cause resident relocation but farmland occupation and no dwelling stands
within 150m away the substations' boundaries. The substation to be
expanded does not need to acquire land.
Through Jiangning and Xixia districts of Nanjing Municipal, Jiangsu
Province, the 500kV transmission line between Dongshanqiao and
Longtan substations goes over rolling low downy (ground elevation:
13.00-120.00m) with low hills and cols as well as even and relatively
low-lying terrain (usual ground elevation: 6.90-13.00). There are
dwellers along the line and they should be relocated. Tower foundations
will occupy farmland. The following high-grade highways will be crossed
by the line: Nanjing airport highway, Ning-Hang highway, Ning-Hu
highway, National Highway number 104, Nanjing second ring road and
third ring road. It will also cross two navigable rivers----Qinhuai River
and Jiuxiang River. With farmland along, the 500kV transmission line
Tianwan Power Station-Shanghe Substation line cut into the 500kV
Lianyungang Substation passes through Datangwei, Xiaotangwei and
Pengzhuang Village, Yilu Township, Guanyun County, Lianyungang
Municipal. No houses, highways or rivers will be relocated or crossed
over.
Nanjing area and Lianyungang area to be passed through by the new lines
are separately developed and underdeveloped economically.
- 8 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
3 Potential environmental impact
(1) During construction period
Access road during construction period will take up some farmland
temporarily causing short-term impact on crop planting. Planting will
recover when construction is over.
The Project sites are on the farmland. Building of the Project will have
to clear all the crops in the land and occupy the land permanently. This
will cause certain loss in agricultural production.
Some farmland will be acquired temporarily for the Project during
construction period, which would influence crop planting for a short term.
However, crop planting will recover when construction work is finished.
Building of the Project would produce construction dust and noises,
resulting in short-term impact on surroundings.
In case the transmission line crosses highways, railways, rivers and
existing power lines, attention should be paid to impact incurred by the
line on transportation traffic and the power lines' safe operation.
(2) During operation period
To the substations:
PCBs are no longer used in compliance with Chinese rules and there
will be no any impact incurred by PCBs on the environment.
The Project's involving farmland would affect agricultural production,
leading to annual decrease of 198.9t/a in local grain output.
The Project will occupy total land of 17.33 ha. No house is required to
remove but economic compensation and land reallocation should be done
-9-



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power Transmission Project
with some inhabitants.
* In design, the Project has been isolated far from urban and township
programming areas. No impact would occur to construction of the areas.
* In operation of the Project, the electro-magnetic field (EM1F) intensity
produced under the design conditions meet the recommended standard. In
case some electro-magnetic intensity data under outgoing and ingoing
lines of the substation are more than 4kV/m, there is no dwelling in the
area though, without impact incurred on residents.
* In operation of the Project, noise produced by the substation meet II
standard---- (60dB (A), 50dB (A)) )
*The substation's operation will bring production and sanitary wastewater.
There will be 830 tons of sanitary water annually to be treated and then
discharged. Sanitary water will meet the requirement---- BOD 30mg/L,
SS 150mg/LU oil 10mg/L.
To the transmission lines:
* During operation of the transmission lines, no impact will produce under
the design conditions if the lines intercross highways, railways, rivers and
existing power lines.
* Tower foundations occupy farmland and affect agricultural production,
making an annual decrease of 27.0t/a in crop harvest.
* As estimated preliminarily, tower foundations will take up 2.37ha land,
10800m houses need to be removed. There are 12 families, about 45
persons. That will bring some impact on residents.
* The transmission lines have been designed to shun urban and
township programming area. Thus they have no impact on urban and
township building.
- 10-



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
* Tower foundations will affect agricultural mechanized farming a little.
* The residential house area should be returned to farmland when houses
are removed so as to minimize impact on agricultural production.
4 Suggested mitigating measures
(1) During construction period
* Construction machinery is used during construction of the substation
causing construction noise. Therefore, low noise (less than 85dB(A))
construction machines should be applied. Construction will be done at
daytime and avoided at nighttime as possible to mitigate environmental
impact incurred by construction noise.
* Guard fence should be established during construction of the substation.
Periodic water spray should be done with excavated naked earth within
the substation; soil-transporting vehicles should also be flushed and
covered with surface cloth so as to prevent dust from affecting
surroundings.
* Historic relics should be handled according to the Antiquity
Preservation Law of the People's Republic of China once they are
discovered during construction of the substation. Construction work
should come to a halt in no time and it should be reported to local
antiquity preservation department. Meanwhile, shielding measures should
be adopted.
* Sanitary water of construction staff will be treated and discharged
complying with the standard to prevent drainage of runoff water.
* In design of the substation, proper distance away residential and
sensitive areas have been taken into consideration to meet associated
- 11 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power 'rransmission lProject
design regulations and environmental protection requirements.
* The transmission line intercrossing highways and rivers should avoid
construction at traffic rush time.
* For the land to be occupied by tower foundations and substations,
economic compensation will be provided for farmland, houses and crops
in strict accordance with Land Management Law of China and
requirement of the World Bank.
Refer to Table 1 (Page 15) about mitigating measures of the substation.
(2) During operation period
To the substations:
* Use low noise (less than 85dB(A)) equipment as possible. Low noise
(less than 85dB(A)) means the noise level is less than 85dB(A).
* Make general arrangement of the substation reasonably and arrange the
main transformer at center of the substation to minimize environmental
impact incurred by operation noise.
* In orcler to prevent transformer oil leakage, the accident oil pond
(capacity of which is designed to be larger than the transformer's oil
volume) has been designed in the substation. Transformer oil can run into
the pond directly as any accident happens to the transformer and will be
recycled together and reused.
*One operational 500kV substation will produce sanitary water of 830t/a,
which would be discharged after being disposed through the buried
second biochemical sewage treatment system, and meet the standard.
* Promote propagation and education on electric equipment safety
- 12 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (,iangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
knowledge among the masses near the substation and advise residents
close to the substation of the way to do agricultural production safely.
* Stand a warning sign near outgoing lines of the substation with high
electric field intensity to advise residents not to stay there or do farming
for a long time.
To the transmission lines:
* Self standing towers (without anchoring cables) are mostly used for
transmission line stringing. Double circuit mounting on same tower is
also adopted so that minimum farmland would be occupied.
* The transmission line corridor has been designed to avoid dense
residential area.
* Dwelling to be removed should be relocated to ensure affected residents
have houses and their living standard will not decrease.
* The transmission line has sufficient clear height when crossing
highways and rivers, which would not cause impact on land traffic and
water navigation.
* Strengthen education on electric power to residents near the line
corridor so that they can farm safely under the line corridor.
Refer to Table 1 about mitigating measures of the substation.
5. Environmental management plan
The mitigating measures of the proposed and expansion substations have
been presented according to environmental analysis results. The
environmental management plan has been prepared for construction and
operation periods of the Project. Environmental management during
construction and operation periods is to be implemented by State Power
- 13 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
East China Company and Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company;
local Environmental Protection Bureau is the supervisor for the work.
And State Power Environmental Protection Research Institute is
responsible for monitoring and measurement of operation period. Refer to
Table 2 (Page 16) monitoring plan of the environmental management
plan.
6. Public participation
Public participation was carried out by means of holding talks and
sending out investigation forms. Places involved in the Project were
investigated, including Xiabutou of Dongliu Village (Qilin Town,
Jiangnign District, Nanjing Municiple), Beishangzhuang (Tangshan
Village, Jiangning District), Renjiabian Group (Yinxiang Village,
Jiangnign District), Hexi Group (Yilu Township, Lianyungang Municiple),
Pengzhuang Group (Zhoubei Village, Yilu Township), Xiaotangwei
Group (Yilu Township) and Tangchen Village (Guomeng Township,
Yandu County, Yancheng Municiple) etc. seven sites.
Local government, all functional departments and the masses on the
Project sites supporting construction of the Project consider it beneficial
to development of local industry and traffic and to enhancement of local
living quality.
- 14 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
Tablel Mitigating measures and the cost for the two proposed
substations and one expansion substation
Phase         Issue                                  Cost (thousand   Institutional
Mitigating Measure          yun          epniiiy       Supervisor
yuan)       Responsibility
constr-                    Use low noise (less than                   State  Power  Environme-
uction                    85dB(A))     (<85dB(A))                    Corporation        ntal
Noise             construction  equipment         100        East    China   protection
and do not use high noise
e.imn                                     Company and    bureaus at
equipment
Dust              Guard fence and    water        50                        provmncial,
spray                                         Jiangsu      municipal
Agricultural      Recover        damaged                       Provincial   and county
ecology           vegetation timely when the  Refer to RAP      Electric      levels
construction ends                              Power
Sewage            Buried second biochemical       200          Company
sewage treatment system
Land occupation   Minimize land occupation        ---
Clearance     in  Do    compensation   in    Refer to RAP
occupied land   accordance with laws
Training      on
environmental     Educate constructors            50
protection
Subtotal                                         400
Operat-                    Equipment   noise  isn't
ion                      higher  than   85dB(A).
Noise             Consolidate enclosures and      100
do afforestation to absorb
dust and reduce noise
Use transforming devices
conform   to  standards;
Electric Field and  select height of the power
magnetic field  ddstributing    structure       150
conform    to     design
requirement,  phase-earth
and phase-phase distance
Treated by buried second
biochemical      sewage
Wastewater        treatment system to be in       100
compliant    with   the
standard
Training      on  Strengthen  education  to
environmental     local residents and training    50
protection        to managers
Subtotal                                          400
Total                                                    750
* Institutional Responsibility: State Power Corporation East China Company and Jiangsu
Provincial Electric Power Company.
* Supervisor: Environmental protection bureaus at provincial, municipal and county levels.
(Each measure indicated in the table should be  I \ ,n, J in the hid docurrment.)
- 15 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power Transnission Project
Table 2     Monitoring plan of the environmental management plan
for the two proposed substations, one expansion substation and the
transmission lines
Phase          issue         Monitoring Cost   Monitoring    Institutional
(thousand yuan)     unit      responsibility
Constru-  Noise                      60         State Power    State Power  Environm-
ction     Dust                       10        Environmenta    Corporation     ental
Agricultural ecology       30         1 Protection   East China   protection
Wastewater                 40          Research      Company,     bureaus at
Subtotal                  140          Institute                  provincial,
operation  Noise               120   (30   for   (SPEPRI)       Jiangsu      municipal
purchasing    a                  Provincial   and county
sound     level                   Electric     levels
meter)                            Power
Electric  field  and  170  (60   for                 Company
magnetic field      purchasing    a
field-intensity
meter)
Wastewater                 50
Subtotal                  360
Total                     500
* Noise monitoring is once during construction period and once every half-year
during operation period; mainly monitor construction noise during construction,
equipment and boundary noise level during operation; the monitor factor is Leq A.
In case fesidents near substaitlins andc transmission lines comnplaiin ineastircinent
will be made at thait tine.
* Assess dust level through observation for dust monitoring during construction.
* Electric field and magnetic field will be monitored once per year during operation
period; monitor electric field and magnetic field at Im outside the boundary after
the substation is put into operation; the monitor factors are electric field and
magnetic field.
* Frequency of wastewater monitoring is once every three months during construction
and operation periods; the main monitoring factors are BOD, SS and oil.
* Monitoring unit: State Power Environmental Protection Research Institute ( SPEPRI
*Institutional responsibility: State Power Corporation East China Company and Jiangsu
Provincial Electric Power Company
* Supervisor: Environmental protection bureaus at provincial, municipal and county levels.
*All meastirenieiit should be macle on the site of Longtan Substation, Lianvuligang
Substation anid Yancheng Substation: Xiabutou. FHexingzhuanog anld Tangchen Villaipe.
- 16-



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (jiangsu) SO0kV Power Transniission Project
:Moasurernert   should   be   made   accordinzo to   the  lollowinlg  niethods:( 1)
wastc\vaLe-r:SS-G1B11 901  Gravilneiric Meflhod, 130BD5-GB7JIsS.-.%7 Dilution (llnd
Seed(lin- Method, oil-- Non Dispersive Infiaored Rav Spectromeirv (Monitoring imlethlod
foi uvater and waste watcr (3"' edition), Chinese Environmenial Scienice Press.
1989);(2) noise: relevant requirements    of Technical Code     ol Environmental
Monitorinig bv State E,nvironimilenLal 1'rotectio o  Adni ninstration;( 3) electronia iwnetic
ficicl: to clhoose sunnlly days for measureme-nt considering topography and avoi diri
high buildillgs, trees, higlh-voltage tr-anismnissioni lines and mietal stritctures.
The cost in the table will be used for monitoring work.
- 17 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power Transmission Project
Environmental Impact Assessment Report for the
Extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV
Power Transmission Project
(Two proposed substations, one expansion substation and the
transmission lines)
- 18 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
1 Introduction and background
In order to improve the 500kV network structure in Jiangsu Province, to
meet the demand of growth in power consumption and social economy, to
lower the cost of power transmission, to enhance the reliability of
transmission in the power network, the Jiangsu Province proposed to use
remaining sum of the East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission
Project funded by the World Bank to construct the extension project (two
proposed 500kV substations, one expansion 500kV substation and the
500kV transmission lines).
This environmental impact assessment (EIA) report describes direct and
potential environmental impact incurred by construction of the extension
project (called "the Project" below).
The report is composed of:
(1) Introduction and background
(2)Description of the Project
(3)Environmental background of the Project
(4) Environmental impact during construction period
(5) Environmental impact during operation period
(6) Scheme analysis
(7) Environmental management plan and mitigating measures
(8) Public participation
1.1 Status quo of Jiangsu power grid
In coastland of east China, Jiangsu Province is located at Yangtze River
down stream delta neighboring Shandong, Anhui, Zhejiang provinces and
Shanhi municipality and is one of the most economically developed
provinces in China.
- 19-



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
Jiangsu power grid is at the center of and also an important component of
east China power grid. Jiangsu Province has jurisdiction over total 13
municipals: Nanjing, Zhenjiang, Changzhou, Wuxi, Suzhou, Xuzhou,
Suqian, Lianyungang, Huaiyin, Yancheng, Yanzhou, Taizhou and
Nantong etc.. In 2001, all the social power consumption of the province
up to 107.844 billion kWh and the highest load 18000MW increased
11.03% and 9.0% separately compared with that of the last year.
Till end of 2001, the total installed capacity of T-G sets (above 50MW) in
the province had gone up to 21300MW and generating capacity of that
year had become 104.012 billion kW-h.
The highest voltage level of Jiangsu power grid in operation is 500kV.
Till end of 2001, it had owned 26 of 500kV transmission lines with the
length of 3207km (including inter-provincial connection lines); 10 of
500kV substations (including switching stations) and 12 sets of
transformers, with the capacity of 8000MVA.
Currently, 220kV power grid is still main network in Jiangsu Province.
The whole network has 142 of 220kV substations with 231 sets of
step-down transformers and the transferred capacity of 29549MVA and
319 of 220kV transmission lines 8062.6km long totally (including
inter-provincial connection lines).
See Figure 1-1 sketch map of the 500kV power grid in Jiangsu Province,
East China
1.2 Necessity of construction of the Proiect
Although Jiangsu provincial 500kV power grid has developed fast
making use of loan from the World Bank recent years, it is still relatively
weak. Besides, as the receiver end of east China power network to which
Three Gorges transmit electric power, Jiangsu power grid will be
- 20 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
beneficial to, by constructing the Project, resolving the said bottleneck
problems, strengthening the receiver end network to alleviate pressure on
the existing 5OOkV substations for supplying power and improving
reliability of the power grid for supplying power. Therefore, it is
necessary to accelerate construction of the Project.
1.3 Basis of environmental impact assessment for the Project
1.3.1 The law and regulation system in China
Since the promulgation of environmental protection law in 1989, China
has developed a comprehensive environmental protection law system.
There have established environmental protection organizations at state
level, province level and municipality level with sufficient scale. The
following Chinese regulations are the basis of environmental impact
assessment (EIA) for the Project.
(1) Environmental Protection Law of the People's Republic of China
(2) Land Management Law of the People's Republic of China
(3) Antiquity Preservation Law of the People's Republic of China
(4) The 253 decree State Council, Management Regulations for
Environmental Protection of Construction Project
(5) The 18 decree (1997) SEPB, Management Method for
Environmental Protection of Electro-magnetic Radiation
(6) Document Huanfa[2001]17 SEPA, the Notice on Annunciation (the
first) of Directory of Classified Management of Environmental Protection
for Construction Projects
(7) Document GJ324 (1993) SEPB, the notice on strengthening the
management of environmental impact assessment for construction project
funded by international financial institutions
(8) SEPA HJ/T24 - 1998 Technical regulations on environmental
impact assessment of electromagnetic radiation produced by 5OOkV
ultrahigh voltage transmission and transfer power engineering
- 21 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power Transmission Project
1.3.2 Relevant standards
The environmental standards to be performed during construction and
operation of the substations:
(1) GB8978-88 Standard of Wastewater Comprehensive Effluent for
wastewater effluent (BOD 30mg/L, SS 150mg/L, oil 10mg/L)
(2) GB 12523-90 Noise Limits for Construction Site for construction noise
(3)  GB3096-93 Standard of Environment Noise of Urban Area, class 2
[60dB (A) at daytime, 50 dB (A) at nighttime] for environmental noise
(4)  GB12348-90 Standard of Noise at Boundary of Industrial
Enterprises, class II [60dB (A) at daytime, 50 dB (A) at nighttime] for
noise at the boundary
(5) Radio interference
The tolerance of radio interference level at 20m (not in outgoing direction)
outside the substation enclosure is 55dB ( 1- V/m) (frequency: 0.5MHz) in
fine days with relative humidity no more than 80%.
(6) Electro-magnetic field (EMF) limits
* In case the substation stands close to dwelling, the electric field limit of
the undistorted electric field is 4kV/m at the height of 1.5m in the
residential area, which is deemed to be the recommended assessment
standard for electric field.
* Magnetic induction intensity limits
The limit 0. limT of International Radiant Protection Association for
all-day radiation is used as the recommended assessment standard of
magnetic induction intensity.
1.3.3 Requirements for power transmission project by the World
Bank
The World Bank comments that power transmission project as one with
- 22 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transniission Project
provision of extensive environmental risk which depends on engineering
scale and position. The incurred impacts are relevant to construction of
the substation and risk of electro-magnetic field (EMF). The power line
or substation of small capacity need not overall EIA while that of large
capacity does.
Power transmission projects belong to catalogue B according to the
World Bank Environmental Assessment Policy (OP) 4.01 for
environmental assessment. The Project need not complete environmental
impact assessment but some environmental analysis. Associated
environmental impact analysis has been carried out in compliance with
the Framework of EIA Report for the Project (November 2001) discussed
and recognized by environmental experts of the World Bank.
1.3.4 Design reports of the Project
(1) Feasibility study of the 500kV Longtan Substation project by the East
China Electric Power Design Institute, State Power Corporation
(ECEPD:[), December 2001;
(2) Substation site option report of the 500kV Lianyungang Substation
project by the JPEPDI, July 2001;
(3) Report of the 500kV Yancheng Substation expansion project by the
JPEPDI, October 2001.
(4) Route Report for Power Transmission Line Project of Two Circuits
between the 500kV Dongshanqiao and Longtan Substations, ECEPDI,
2002
(5) Route Report for Power Transmission Line Project of Tianwan Power
Station-Shanghe Substation line cut into the 500kV Lianyungang
Substation, JPEPDI,2002
- 23 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
1.3.5 Project commitment
In accordance with relevant environmental protection rules of China and
the World Bank, on May 21, 2001 the Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power
Company entrust State Power Corporation Environmental Protection
Research Institute (SPEPRI) (holding class A environmental impact
assessment certificate) to carry out EIA for the Project.
The SPEPRI, a science research institute directly affiliated to State Power
Corporation of China, has one after another undertake the EIA for many
projects funded by Chinese government and international financial
organization.
* East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
* Environmental supervision and monitoring for the Environmental
Management Plan of the East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power
Transmission Project
* Zhenjiang llOkV Dashikou and Jingshan Power Transmission Project
* Wuxi 11 OkV Power Transmission Project
* Nanjing 220kV Daxinggong Substation Project
* Nanjing I lOkV Power Transmission Project
* Nantong I lOkV Power Transmission Project
* Lianyungang I lOkV Maopingxian Power Transmnission Project
* Power transmission project of Beijing urban grid reconstruction funded
by the World Bank
Additionally, major EIA projects for thermal plants funded by foreign
investment are:
* Henan Yuzhou Power Plant 1St stage engineering (2x300MW class),
funded by the Asian Development Bank, EIA (including EIA for
substation and transmission lines);
* Shangdong   Liaocheng  Power   Plant 2nd  stage  engineering
(2x600MW),funded by foreign capital, EIA;
- 24 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
* Shandong Heze Power Plant 2nd stage engineering (2x300MW), funded
by foreign capital, EIA;
* Shanxi Yangcheng Power Plant Ist stage engineering (6x350MW),
foreign financial project EIA;
* Anhui Luohe Power Plant 2 stage engineering (2x300MW);
* Hunan Leiyang Power Plant 1st stage engineering (2x300MW class),
funded by the World Bank, EIA (including EIA for substation and
transmission lines);
Major ElA projects for thermal plants funded by the government:
* Shandong Laicheng Power Plant 1"' stage engineering (4x300MW and
2x600MW);
* Shandong Heze Power Plant 2nd stage engineering (2x300MW)
* Jiangsu Xutang Power Plant renovation engineering (2x300MW);
* Jiangsu Ligang Power Plant 15 stage engineering (2x350MW);
* Jiangsu Nantong Power Plant 2nd stage engineering (2x350MW);
* Nanjing Xiaguan Power Plant renovation engineering (2x125MW);
* Suzhou Industrial Park Huaneng Power Plant 1't stage engineering
(2x300MW);
* Anhui Fuyang Power Plant 1st stage engineering (2x600MW class),
Asian Development Bank EIA;
* Zhejiang Jiaxing Power Plant 1st stage engineering (2x300MW), etc.
* Jiangxi Jinggangshan Power Plant ls stage engineering (2x300MW);
After undertaking the tasks, SPEPRI collected relevant information and
solicited opinions from departments concerned on the work and began to
carry out EIA work for the Project. At that time, the Project was at the
stage of selecting proposed substation site and some engineering designs
had not been confirmed. However, we compiled on September 2001 the
Framework of Environmental Impact Assessment Report for the
Extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power Transmission
Project so that persons concerned of the World Bank could know our
work status, conception and progress as soon as possible. Between 8-9
Nov. 2001, Mr. Baratz, the principal expert of the World Bank, reviewed
- 25 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transniission Project
and put forward modification suggestions on the above framework and
investigated the recommended substation sites. SPEPRI has performed
EIA based on the framework.
The Project at the engineering site-option stage currently has been
reviewed and approved by the State Power Corporation East China
Company (SPECC). SPEPRI carried out site investigation, environmental
investigation (physical, ecological, social and living quality environment),
public participation and ambient background measurement (of electric
field intensity, magnetic field intensity and noise levels) on the
recommended two proposed substation sites, on the expansion site and
along the transmission lines.
For the reason that the 500kV transmission line is still at indoor
route-option stage instead of investigation stage, we know physical
environment of areas the line may pass through. This environmental
impact assessment report has been compiled on the above basis.
The EIA report was delivered to environmental experts of the World
Bank at the end of Feb. 2002. The environmental experts offered
suggestions on April 25 and we modified and submitted updated repot
again according to the suggestions on May 30, 2002. On June 20, 2002,
Mr. Baratz, principal expert of environmental protection from the World
Bank, went to Shanghai and reviewed that report and provided comments.
This EIA report is updated version modified carefully in accordance with
the comments.
- 26 -



Beijing,*
Yan h ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jangsu
Yangven<;;,  Shandong Province  /  t   5irovincc
u  > - *.       wt 5     w S~~~~~~~  ~~~      ~~Tian%%an   0
m '(,othe Yellow Sea  I  /
n Che               Li teanygcan
u    X         'tang 
>  ReZ       .X5 Yancheng 1
C.)  engchen  h~~~~~~~  Xutang ~~(I x 750)(     ,
*  N~w1y built,~.xpand~d ~kV 5UbSt~ti@I1Yancheng
<  ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ x 750) 
A     nhui             Provincevince
i h hapohaVg or giangu r      h
}   i   i  ,  .1   | I ~~~~~ianshenizeang  
>;(  t  It iV050ndon   neng andtan  _
t . / c}  (2x~~~1750) jn (fx 70°)    \
D~~~~~onesanO Nia          cca& . 
xloo W      i^ an Ceao   und
*  Nesly built,expsded 500kV sub5ttioo   ~(2 x 750)J  ia2an (t \_ooha
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%              hr  e     Huian2 u Poic
0    Existing substation                  iagPo nc
Uint: MVA
Figl-l The sketeh niap ofthe 500kV power Gr'd inJ'anosu Provine east Chin



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
2 Description of the Proiect
2.1 Project component
The Project includes two proposed 500kV substations, one 500kV
substation to be expanded and 102km of 500kV transmission lines.
2.2Substation
(1) The 500kV Longtan Substation is programmed to install 2 sets of
IOOOMVA main transformers, reserving possibility of building 3rd set.
The voltage is at the level of 500/220/35kV.  The first phase is a
1000MVA main transformer. The 500kV outgoing line is planned to be 4
circuits, reserving possibility of expansion of 2 circuits more. In this
phase, the 500kV outgoing lines are 2 circuits. The 220kV outgoing is
planned to be 12 circuits, reserving possibility of expansion of 2 circuits
and this phase is 6 circuits.
The area within the substation is approximately 8.88ha (New land need to
be acquired and no house is required to remove.). Refer to Figure 2-1
geographic position. See the accurate plan location in Figure 2-2.
(2) The 500kV Lianyungang Substation is programmed to install 2 sets of
750MVA main transformers, reserving possibility of 3rd set. The voltage
is at the level of 500/220/35kV. This phase is a 750MVA main
transformer. The 500kV outgoing lines are planned to be 6 circuits and
they are 2 circuits in this phase. The 220kV outgoing lines are planned to
be 12 circuits and they are 5 circuits in this phase.
The area within the substation is approximately 8.2ha (New land need to
be acquired and no house is required to remove.). Refer to Figure 2-3
geographic position. See the accurate plan location in Figure 2-4.
- 27 -



EIA report for the extenLsion Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power 'ransmission Project
(3) The 500kV Yancheng Substation will be expanded with lx750MVA
main transformer in this phase. The first phase will be carried out
within the existing 500kV Yancheng Substation and will not
acquire more land.
The area within the substation is approximately 8.48ha (No land
requisition in this phase). Refer to Figure 2-5 geographic position.
2.3 The transmission lines
(1) Tianwan Power Station-Shanghe Substation line cut into the 500kV
Lianyungang Substation
Tianwan Power Station-Shanghe Substation line cut into the 500kV
Lianyungang Substation, linetype: LGJ-4 X 400, total 2xlkm, single
circuit stringing.
Tower number: 6.
Tower foundation occupied area: 0.12ha.
Route: refer to figure 2-6 route sketch of the 500kV transmission line cut
into Lianyungang Substation; figure 2-7 is physical environment layout
of areas the line may pass through.
(2) The 500kV Dongshanqiao-Longtan substations line,
linetype: LGJ-4 X 400, total 2 X 50km, two circuits stringing;
Tower number: 125.
Tower foundation occupied area: 2.25ha.
Route: refer to figure 2-8 route sketch of the transmission line and figure
2-9 physical environment along the line. This transmission line comes out
from east of the 500kV Dongshanqiao Substation and cross Ning-Li
highway and then 220kV Dongli line. It crosses Ning-Gao highway on
- 28 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power 'Iransmission Project
the south of Renjiabian, reaches Xiexi passing by Fangshan hill on the
south of the hill, and then goes through Dalian hill after northward over
east of Chunhua, and continues crossing national highway number 104
and Hu-Ning highway to Hushan hill, and goes into Longtan Substation
finally.
- 29 -



4Nang
Q,  N
N3,
LN                                                                        Sbi F"
untry road
1:2                                               c
Zf
I   ssmg   .01  I
2xmy
Nj  We
u u
X
E9
c& 1:20QOO
Figure 2-1 Grographic position of the proposed 500WLongtanSUbstation



61V00           91500   1125000          141000                   N 
i;t r  l _ _  |               H z   C 0t9    ABC       ATC
I tt      1
22 dis butingsdevice  I                                           800
Figure_2-2 rrangement lan of the roposed 50kV L utin S
-  a,  - ~ -   i, 
I                       'I
Y C-     A C
78000        75000            1       169f000
322000                           legend
scale 1:1800
Figure 2-2 Arrangement plan of the proposed 500kV Longtan Substation



TU
ol
7-
ti
.w
LT;
'Wi
4-
Pr
e
Legend
sde, 1: 152N
Figure 2-3 Geographic position of the proposed 5OOkV Lianyungang Substation



1N-
334500
_______!s._ _ 4  7Xn _ 2l _  ;--1 7- - _-- -i-0  -  ~ ---_.  .6C0  I~1!00' 
.                                          1---____' -  C( ~ 4( '  --'- ' '- ''   - '  - - '  -  -  - --4-- --
ly".1-91OW                    ~~-    I-i- 
s!           I  ,,         _  ,                               '     '     _~~~~~~~~i 
disriutin                                                II
C'4                                                             -T~~I  H~I I 
1 07 0 0 0                                                          .
7 3500                      1 54000                i   legend
iscale 1:2000
Figure 2-4 General arrangement plan of the 500kV Lianyungang Substation



S         AX~~~~~ujiaxiang            jN
X  5      ~~Zhangzhuangv           WC    
psguzhuang ,?= 
g         ~~~~DingYan k
X              {    R          Z~~~~~~~~~Xumazhuang 
/   v    ~~Dalizhuag      \-- 4/4-\ 
)t     Domngtanhu  5   1\           9    \ 
~~13                 Bihzun Caijiamiao
-Yangshizhuang  j              Yancheng Subsation (Tongchencun Site)
u    ~Baiqlingzhuang              To  henhukn
\&  g   I      z        t  D~~~~~~ongchenzhuang
Baijiang \l
\      G~~~oumeng   |          .
g \ EZ3 1~~~~~~ n' Nnjn- Y2nche!!          highvay
\lZhujiazhuarg 9 
t~~          ~~~~       ~~~~~ 1  2 l
Fig2-5 Geogrnaph'ic position of the evxpansilon 500kV Yangcheno Substation



I  ^\                /~~~~~~~Tianzhuang
Dengzhuggxizhuang
Gengzhug     G uzhuang
Itl aW \      Gezhuang
Gezhuang  Banpu F            N ES   g
aw Shanhuo River
\   WeizhuangavTpC=
|ig2 6  R zhuang k   f  L i ne  t  /
|  ii~aochenizhul  be    ifz
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~ Su@
Legend          142\
Fig,2-6 Route sketch                      he; 



FarmlIand
Pengz_huang  * -
IN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
'\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
Fig I 2-  hsca  niometlyu ar undsthe50k  in  u it Layu ag  ustto



- . S _                       pfo~~~~~~~~gramed ThirdIN
,JgR _, ~~Shanghai-Nanjing Railway. 
0= \ \~~~~~~~~a                          Da IRountain  g   ustation
/                     ,HFJo<!g~~~~g Mountaig 
t   </i / / ,(ganer Mountaig              !0 4ll  o\v
@  Roadrogramme~~~~d Secord /      /,                   J
~~~~i            in
/         ( \      Qz~~~~gang
I > hRer s~~~ling              \ITghanxiaeLnga
x nxia                              e E 7  xia;-50Vmsisoln
d500kV\& °tioy /\. 
Fig 2-8 Route sketch of the 500kV Dongshanqiao-Longtan Subsations transmission line



I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Outgoing route of the 500kV Dongshanqiao Substation
Airport highway crossed
Figure 2-9 Natural envrionment layout of along
the Dongshanqiao-Longtan substations 500kV line



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power 'ransmission Project
3 Environmental background situation
3.1 Physical environment
3.1.1 General description of Jiangsu provincial physical
environment
In the east coastal part of China, Jiangsu Province is lying between 1160
22' -121° 55' east longitude and 300 45' -35° 07' north latitude.
Located at down stream of the Yangtze River and Huaihe River, it borders
Yellow Sea on the east, connects with Anhui on the west, neighbors
Shanghai and Zhejiang on the south and interfaces with Shandong on the
north. The whole province has an area of 102.6 thousand square
kilometers, 1.07% of the overall area of China. It has a population of
72.131.3 million and is the most densely populated province of China.
The overall topography of the province is mainly plain, roughly
appearing high on the north and south, low at middle and inclining from
west to east. The province is mainly composed of the Huang-Huai plain,
Jiang-Huai plain, Sea-bordering plain, the Yangtze River Delta, and
norther and southwest hilly regions. The area of plains with elevation
under 50m is 85% of the total area of the whole province and most of
which with elevation under 5m.
Located at medium latitude, the whole province is mild in climate,
appropriate in rainfall and clear cut in four seasons. With the line of
Huaihe River and Jiangsu northern general irrigation canal as
demarcation line, its northern part is of humid and semi-humid monsoon
climate of temperature zone, its southern part is of humid monsoon
climate of subtropical zone. The whole province annual average isotherm
roughly runs in east-west direction, with temperature difference between
north and south be 2.7°C. The annual precipitation comes between
800-1150mm. The whole year average wind velocity is roughly 3.0m/s,
- 30 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power 'rransmission Project
with prevail wind easterly.
3.1.2 Physical environment of the proposed and expansion
project
(1) The 500kV Longtan Substation
Located in Xiabutou (dominating Dongliu Village and Yuanjiabian
Village), Qilin Town, Jiangning County, Nanjing Municipal, the
substation site is 1300m east of Jiuxiang River and 50m away Qilin Road
on the east, with Xiabutou Group of Dongliu Village 150m away on the
south, Pingjiagang Group of Yuanjiabian Village 500m away northwest
and Qianxiang Village 200m away on the north. No house is required to
be resettled within the susbtation site area.
The substation site area is farmland with growing wheat, paddy, rape (a
kind of vegetable to be extracted food oil) and economic crops such as
green vegetables and garlic. The site is open and wide but broken into
pieces. On the south is an earth hummock and the remainder is
comparatively flat and a little wavy. Its topography is fairly high with the
natural elevation of about 11- 18.2m. There are manually excavated
ponds within the site area.
The substation site is located in hilly land in the low part of Ningzhen
mountain on the south of lower reach of Yangtze River, 5-8km north
Yangtze River. In the substation site scheme, it is designed along both
sides of Qixiang River and Jiuxiang River; therefore, they are major
rivers in the area. The substation site is 1300m away east of Jiuxiang
River and 2250m away west of Qixiang River. Because of high
topography, the one-hundred-year flood condition is chiefly caused by
mountainous area at upper reach of Yangtze River. Qixiang River and
Jiuxiang River are both river ways of small drainage area in the
mountainous area and there is no observed water level information about
them. After visiting Nanjing Municipal Water Resource Planning Design
- 31 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
Institute and Water Conservancy Bureaus in Xixia District and Jiangning
Township and hearing their opinions, we estimated in combination with
watercourse gradient ratios of Jiuxianghe and Qixiang Rivers and the
water level (8.7m) of the said one-hundred-year flood at Xixiashan reach
of Yangtze River: the one-hundred-year flood level on Xiabutou
substation site is 11.75m, the ground elevation is above 12.0m; hence, the
area will not be affected by one-hundred-year flood.
The earthquake intensity on the substation site is VII degree.
Meteorological conditions on the substation site are listed in Table 3-1.
See Figure 3-1 the substation site surroundings.
Table 3-1 Meteorological conditions on the substation site
Item                                 Unit          Value
Average air pressure in last five years              Pa         101554.8
Average in last five years                          15.3
Temperature            Extreme max in last five years            C           43.0
Extreme min in last five years                        -14.0
Average of max in last five years                      37.2
Absolute               Average in last five years                          1558.7
humidity                 Max in last five years               Pa          4240.0
Min in last five years                            60.0
Relative               Average in last five years              %           76.8
humidity                 Min in last five years                             4.0
Average in last five years                         1039.9
Precipitation          Annual max in last five years            mm          1621.3
rate                Month max in last five years                         533.2
Day max in last five years                          198.5
Evaporating              Average in last five years            mm           1517.3
capacity             Annual max in last five years                        1958.7
Insolation           Average hours in last five years          h            2120
duration          Average percentage in last five years        %           48.0
Thunderstorm           Average days in last five years           d            33.5
Max days in last five years                           54
Max depth of frozen earth in last five years           cm            9
Max depth of accumulated snow in last five years          cm            51
Average in last five years                           2.7
Wind speed             Average of max within 10min             m/s           25.0
for years in succession
Transient max for years in succession                    38.8
- 32 -



EIA report for the extenLsion Project of East China (.Jiangsu) 500kV Power 'ransmission Project
To be continued (Table 3-1)
Item                       Unit     Value
Wind direction  Prevail wind direction in last five years--NE,  9
frequency              ENE                   %
Prevail wind direction in past summers--SE  11
_____ __ {Prevail wind direction in past winters --NE  10
(2) The 500kV Lianyungang Substation
The substation site lies in Hexingzhuang of Yuchan Village, Yilu
Township, Guanyun County, Lianyungang Municipal. Where the
farmnland of Beiwei Group and Datangzhuang connects, on the southeast
of Banpu Town and south side of part national highway No. 204 (from
Xiaoyizhuang crossing to Tongxing Road), the site is approximately 9km
from Banpu Town, approximately 24km from Lianyungang urban roads
and 30km from the road of Lianyungang Municipal Power Supply
Bureau.
There is no house building within the open and flat substation site.
Beyond 300m north of the site is Datangweizhuang, 600m east
Xiaotangweizhuang, 300 west Hexingzhuang and 100lm South
Pengzhuang Group. Yilu Township lies in northeast of the substation,
1200m away. There are some tombs in southern area of the site, most of
which have been removed or buried underground and some of which are
possible to be enclosed into the substation. The tombs, scattered in the
farm field, were established by local farmers to bury their relatives and
not ancient tombs. Under Chinese law, no tomb is permitted to be built
within farm field protective area. Thus those tombs are illegal and not
protected by the law. However, the project construction unit will still sign
an agreement with the tomb owner providing economic compensation
when the unit could not avoid the tombs in land requisition.
Definite land area to be acquired has not been determined finally;
therefore, tomb problem should be considered sufficiently in actual
construction design and this area should be passed by as possible. If the
tomb area could not be shunned, the fact that an agreement with
- 33 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5(0kV Power Transmission Plroject
compensation is signed with the tomb owner should attract enough
attention in later inspection report, be laid special stress on description
and be delivered to the XVor-ld Batik. Now actual land requisition work
has begin yet and so which tombs to be removed are not definite.
The substation site area is farmland planting principally wheat and cotton
etc crops. Cultivated land on the site per capita is 2.8mou and 1.9mou
separately for Beiwei Group of Hexingzhuang and Datangweizhuang.
Major rivers within the site are Shanhou River 3.5km away from the
substation site on the north and Chezhou River 1.25km away on the south.
Flood comes mainly from rainstorm runoff in this area. Besides, river
base of Yan River etc. around the substation site has no bank, which is
prone to cause overflow flood water to submerge the substation during
rainy seasons. The one-hundred-year flood level in this area is 3.64m
while its ground natural elevation is lower, between 2.7-2.9m. Therefore,
flood prevention measures are required to be taken. Soil filling is primary
consideration.
The earthquake intensity on the substation site is VII degree.
With good cleanness of environment, the substation site has no other
pollution around but itself----no communication wires of Class I and II,
no mutual disturbing military, broadcast television, radar station or traffic
etc. facilities. No historic relics have been identified on or under the
ground of the site.
The site area belongs to monsoon climate area of warm temperature zone
with mild and humid climate, clear cut four seasons and obvious change
between cold and hot. It is chilly and windy in spring and winter, torrid
and rainy in summer and autumn.
Meteorological conditions on the substation site are listed in Table 3-2.
See Figure 3-2 the substation site surroundings.
- 34 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power Transmnission Project
Table 3-2 Meteorological conditions on the substation site
Item                                Unit          Value
Average air pressure in last five years            Pa           101670
Average in last five years                          13.7
Temperature            Extreme max in last five years           °C            40.0
Extreme min in last five years                        -21.7
Average of max in last five years                       19.2
Absolute                Average in last five years                          1410
humidity                 Max in last five years               Pa            4200
Min in last five years                             20
Relative                Average in last five years            %              74
humidity                 Min in last five years                              3
Average in last five years                          910.9
Precipitation           Annual max in last five years          mm            1255.0
rate                Month max in last five years                         545.9
Day max in last five years                          226.8
Evaporating              Average in last five years            mm           1620.6
capacity              Annual max in last five years                        2148.1
Insolation            Average hours in last five years         h           2364.4
duration           Average percentage in last five years      %             53.3
Thunderstorm            Average days in last five years          d            31.1
Max days in last five years                           54
Max depth of frozen earth in last five years         cm             20
Max depth of accumulated snow in last five years        cm             22
Average in last five years                           2.9
Wind speed             Average of max within 10min             m/s           18.0
for years in succession
Transient max for years in succession                     22.9
Wind direction    Prevail wind direction in last five years-- NE                11
frequency     Prevail wind direction in past summers-E, ENE    %         11% for each
Prevail wind direction in past winters --NE                  12
(3) The 5OOkV Yancheng Substation expansion
- 35 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
The substation lies in Tangchen Village, Guomeng Township, Yandu
County, Yancheng Municipal. The first phase is to expand one main
transformer in the existing 500kV Yancheng Substation. See Figure 3-3
the substation site surroundings.
(4) The 500kV Tianwan Power Station-Shanghe Substation line cut into
Lianyungang Substation
Located in Datangweizhuang area, Yuchan Village, Yilu Township,
Guanyun County, Lianyungang Municipal, the line goes over farmland
with open and even surroundings. Physical environment along the line is
similar with Lianyungang Substation's.
(5) Double circuit 500kV Dongshanqiao-Longtan substations line
Through Jiangning and Xixia districts of Nanjing Municipal, Jiangsu
Province, the 500kV transmission line between Dongshanqiao and
Longtan substations goes over rolling low downy (ground elevation:
13.00-120.00m) with low hills and cols as well as even and relatively
low-lying terrain (usual ground elevation: 6.90-13.00). There are about
45 persons of 12 families along the line and they will be relocated. Tower
foundations will occupy farmland. The following high-grade highways
will be crossed by the line: Nanjing airport highway, Ning-Hang highway,
Ning-Hu highway, National Highway number 104, Nanjing second ring
road and third ring road. Area along the line is located in along-river and
Qinhuai water systems of main steam area of Yangtze River lower reach.
From northeast toward southwest, it goes via low hills and Jiuxiang
River and then crosses low-lying area and Qinhuai River. This route
belongs to humid and half-humid monsoon climate area of subtropical
zone. Four seasons are clear-cut with quite abundant rainfall.
- 36 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
3.2 Social environment
3.2.1 General description of Jiangsu provincial social
environment
Jiangsu Province is one of the regions developed relatively earlier, with a
history of agricultural production more than 6000 years. Jiangsu today is
one of the most economically and culturally developed regions. Its
industrial and agricultural production plays a decisive role in the entire
country. In agriculture, its grains production are mainly rice and wheat, its
economic crops are mainly cotton, rape and peanut. Its light and heavy's
industries are developed and complete in range, having six pillars in
industry----machinery,  electronics,  petrochemical industry,  textile
industry, light industry, foodstuff and construction material industries.
Superior in geographic position, it has convenient traffic communication.
For water ways, there are Yangtze River nearly 400 kilometers running
transversely through its territory and the Jing-Hang Canal section690
kilometers flowing longitudinally its north and south. For railways, there
are Jing-Hu, Long-Hai, and Ning-Wu etc. Three trunk railways together
with northern Jiangsu railway to be constructed totaling more than
10OOkm sprawling through its territory. For high ways, there are Hu-Ning,
Ning-He express ways, Ning-Yan, Ning-Tong and Ning-Lian etc. First
class high ways and highways network with national highways 104, 204,
205, 206, 310, 311, 312, 318, 327 and 328 etc.as its trunks covering its
territory.
Till end of 2000, the total population of Jiangsu Province had been
73.2724 million with the density of 714 per square kilometer.
In 2000, Jiangsu provincial gross domestic product value (GDP) was
858.47 billion yuan, 10.6% higher than the last year with enhanced
increasing amplitude of 0.5%. And the added value of primary industry
was 102.8 billion yuan, 4.0% increased; and that of the secondary
industry was 443.9 billion yuan, 11.6% increased; that of the tertiary
- 37 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power 'ransmnission Project
industry was 311.77 billion yuan, 11.1% increased. The per-capita GDP
of the whole province reached 11700 yuan and increased by 9% than the
last year.
3.2.2 Social situation of the proposed substations and the
expansion substation
(1) The 500kV Longtan Substation
At the end of 2000, Nanjing Municipal had a total population of 5374.4
thousand, in which agricultural population was 2504.1 thousand,
non-agricultural one was 2870.3 thousand, with the density of 815
persons/km2. The total population of Jiangning County was 742.7
thousand with agricultural population of 610.8 thousand, non-agricultural
one of 131.9 thousand, and the density of 472 persons/km2.
At the end of 2000, Qilin Town had a total population of 28.152 thousand,
in which agricultural population was 23.519 thousand. The whole town
occupied an area of 62km2 with 253 1ha of farmland and 0.O9ha per capita
of cultivated land. Total economic incomes of the year was 1750.16
million yuan of which 60 million was agricultural outputs. The net
income per capita was 4431 yuan in the year.
The 500kV Longtan Substation site covers Xiabutou Group, Dongliu
Village, Qilin Town, Jiangning District and Pingjiagang Group,
Yuanjiabian Village. Dongliu Village, ruling over 571 families of 11
village groups, has a population of 1805 and a plow land area of 139.13ha
with 0.08 ha per capita. Xiabutou Group has 231 persons totally and
15.4ha of plow land with 0.08 ha per capita. Yuanjiabian Village, ruling
over 515 families of 10 village groups, has a population of 1625 and a
plow land area of 142.8ha with 0.088 ha per capita. Pingjiagang Group
has 138 persons totally and 15.67ha of plow land with 0.11 ha per capita.
- 38 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power 'ransmission Project
Around the 500kV Longtan Substation Xiabutou site is farmland with
Qilin Road 50m away on the east. The water plant supplies potable water
to residents around the site. Because it is rural area, there is no sewer
works with sound equipment. Jiuxiang River is the major drainage
channel. One Xigang Middle School stands 1.7km away on the northeast
of the site.
With relatively good surroundings, there is neither pollution source near
the substation site nor other interacting military, radio and television, and
traffic facility. No ancient cultural relic has been discovered on and under
the ground.
(2) The 500kV Lianyungang Substation
At the end of 2000, Lianyungang Municipal had a total population of
4556.1 thousand, in which agricultural population was 3485 thousand,
non-agricultural one was 1071.1 thousand, with the density of 612.05
persons/km2. The total population of Guanyun County was 1042.0
thousand with agricultural population of 840.3 thousand, non-agricultural
one of 201.7 thousand, and the density of 554.85 persons/km2.
Yilu Township had a total population of 34,300 of which 32,300 were
agricultural persons till the end of 2000. The whole township covered an
area of 4886ha with cultivated land per capita of 0. 14ha/person. The total
economic incomes of the year were 325.73 million in which agricultural
outputs were 99.15 million yuan and the net income per capita was 1318
yuan in the year.
The 500kV Lianyungang Substation site covers Hexi Group, Xinggao
Village, Yilu Township. Xinggao Village has 675 families of 2849
persons and 293.93ha of plow land with 0.10 ha per capita. Hexi Group
has a population of 282 and 38.67ha plow land with 0.14 ha per capita.
Around the 500kV Lianyungang Substation Hexingzhuang site is
- 39 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power Transmission Project
farmnland with a country road 50m away on the north, a proposed
Lian-Yan Highway 1.5km away on the south, and the National Highway
204 on the west. The water plant supplies potable water to residents
around the site. Because it is rural area, there is no sewer works with
sound equipment. One irrigation river of about 10m wide 260m away is
the major drainage channel. One Yilu Middle stands 1.5km away on the
east.
With relatively good surroundings, there is neither pollution source near
the substation site nor other interacting military, radio and television, and
traffic facility. No ancient cultural relic has been discovered on and under
the ground.
(3) The 50GkV Yancheng Substation
At the end of 2000, Yancheng Municipal had a total population of 7956
thousand, in which agricultural population was 5833 thousand,
non-agricultural one was 2123 thousand, with the density of 531
persons/km2. The total population of Yandu County was 861.3 thousand
with agricultural population of 614.8 thousand, non-agricultural one of
246.5 thousand, and the density of 660 persons/km2.
The total population of Guomeng Town was 1258.093 thousand persons
till the end of 2000. Total farmland of the whole town was 441 1ha with
cultivated land per capita of 0.08ha. It had a total economic income of
1230.06 million yuan of which 282.37 million yuan was agricultural
outputs and the net income per capita was up to 3721 yuan in the year.
The 5GGkV Yancheng Substation site is farmland with Ningyan Road
50m away on the west. The water plant supplies potable water to
residents around the site. Because it is rural area, there is no sewer works
with sound equipment. Ganggouhe River and Dongwohe River are the
major drainage channels.
- 40 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5UOkV Power Transmission Project
(4) The transmission lines
Refer to table 3-3 Social environment along the 500kV transmission
lines.
Table 3-3 Social environment along the 500kV transmission lines
Item          Tianwan Power Station-Shanghe Substation     Double circuit 500kV
line cut into Lianyungang Substation             line
Route area         Yilu Township, Guanyun County,       Jiangning and Xixia districts
Lianyungang Municipal                of Nanjing Municipal
Land function               Farmland                 Farmland in low hills and low-lying
area
Village   or                                            Renjiabian, Chunhua Village,
town             Datangwei, Xiaotangwei, Pengzhuang          Longwangmiao
Village, Qinglongshan Village etc.
Waters                        None                      Jiuxiang River, Qinhuai River
Highway                                              Six highways: Ning-li, Ning-Hang,
crossed                       None                              Ning-hu,
national road number 104, Nanjing
outer ring roads
Cultural relics  No cultural relic or historic site nearby  No cultural relic or historic site
nearby
Tourism                       None                               None
3.3 Ecological environment
Exploited more than 6000 years, the Jiangsu region is mostly covered by
cultivated lands and artificial river net. The proposed substation sites are
mostly cultivated farm field without original forest, wetland or species &
living kinds in imminent danger.
There are many rivers near the two proposed substations. Qixiang River
and Jiuxiang River flow near Longtan Substaion. Near Lianyungang
Substation are Shanhou River, Yan River, Shaoxiang River and Yunshan
River.
The land occupied by the two proposed substations is cultivated field
planting principally wheat and paddy and economic crops such as cotton
and cole.
- 41 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power Transnmission Project
The 500kV transmission line between Dongshanqiao and Longtan
substations goes over rolling low downy with low hills and cols. Due to
human activities, most hills have been cultivated into terrace, cols
become paddy fields, and low hill area are manually planted with Zashu
trees, pine trees and Shamu trees. When the line crosses low hills, a few
manual high trees would be cut; it will span economic crop areas at the
height of the crops without necessity of cutting crops. This line crosses
two rivers (Qinhuai River and Jiuxiang River).
- 42 -



uoTlwsqnS uuiOuo- A1OOg posodoid 3loijo s3uipunounS 1-E omiii
1  "P4~~~~~~~
.%. -
-~~             .,  



-,. -p,s ~
4  '.,   -,  ~~~~~~~~~~~, e
Figure 3-2 Surroundings of the proposed
500kV Lianyungang Substation



f ; s -  t  .. '  .  .                             ,2>  S  i':$4?;.,.. ,- '~  '*
.1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.
Figure 3-3 Surroundings of the expansion 500kV Yancheng Substation



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
4 The environmental impact duringy construction
period
4.1 Ideiitification of environmental impact
Identification of environmental impact during construction period of the
Project is listed in Table 4-1 below.
Table 4-1 Identification of environmental impact
during construction period
Order                Item                         Environmental impact
I     Land occupation                  *  substation  and  tower   foundation
occupation
* interim occupation for construction
(see 4.2.5)
2     Mineral resources               No impact (see 4.2.4)
3     Hydrological conditions and flood  Some substations affected, others not
(see 4.2.7)
4     Construction dust                Minor impact on ambient air (see 4.2.2)
5     Construction noise              Certain impact on constructors
And acoustic environment (see 4.2.3)
6     Sanitary water during construction  Minor impact (see 4.2.1)
7     Wastewater    effluent   during  Minor impact (see 4.2.1)
construction
8     Vegetation                      Vegetation damaged in occupied land; some
trees cut under the route through low hills
9     Wetland ecology                 A little artificial wetland (ditch or pond)
occupied, natural wetland not affected
_______ __________________________(see 4.3.3)
10    Scenic view                      Affected a little (see 4.5.3)
11    Shipping                         Short-term impact brought by bulky cargo
shipping (see 4.4)
12    Highway                          Short-term (half a day) impact (see 4.4)
13    Agricultural production          Loss of 198.9t/year (see 4.3.2)
14    Influx of construction teams      * no cultural conflict
* to increase residential incomes
* life facilities (see 4.5.4)
15    Cultural relics                  No impact (see 4.5.1)
16    Scenery and places of interest   No impact (see 4.5.2)
17    Resettlement                     No resettlement required; some emigration
for the transmission lines (see 4.5.5)
18    Post and telecom  communication  No impact on the communication wires due
wires and power transmission lines  to a long distance away in design (see 4.4)
- 43 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
4.2 Impact on physical environment
4.2.1 Impact on waters
Due to bulky cargo shipping for the two 500kV substations (Longtan and
Lianyungang substations), some docks and bridges are separately
required to be established and consolidated. During their construction,
suspended substances in the river might increase for a short term.
During construction of the substation, there will be 100 persons
participating in the construction work and some of them (about 20%) are
residents nearby. A little sanitary water -produced during construction for
constructors' daily consumption of water would primarily accumulate
where they dwell. The sanitary water is treated in sewage tank and meets
the requirement of BOD 30mg/L, SS 150mg/L and oil 10mg/L and then is
discharged. Owing to small quantity of the sanitary water and farmland
around the substation (wastewater is discharged into the farmland for
irrigation or into drainage rivers nearby), water bodies nearby would not
be affected much. The wastewater wouldn't produce when construction is
finished.
Mixing concrete needs water and so attention should be paid to stopping
turbid water from running off to affect water bodies around.
When coming across waters, the transmission lines cross them directly to
avoid building towers in waters. Therefore, there is no impact on
suspended matter pollution and sluice function of the river way.
When construction roads go via small rivers or artificial river net,
temporary bridges need to be built in some places. That may cause
increase of suspended matter in the water for a short term.
- 44 -



EIA report for the extenLsion Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transniission Project
4.2.2 Impact on environmental air
No dwelling stands near (within 150m from) the two proposed
substations. Although secondary dust produced when excavating
foundation which causes the ground to be naked on the substation site
would not affect directly residents nearby, it would increase dust in
atmospheric environment around. However, such impact will be incurred
temporarily and partially.
During construction of tower foundation, secondary fly dust caused by
naked soil may affect residents nearby temporarily. Such impact will
disappear when construction is completed.
4.2.3 Impact on acoustic environment
Environmental impact during construction period comes chiefly from
noises produced by construction machines. No much noise impact will be
incurred by the transmission lines.
(1) Noise levels of construction noise sources
During construction of the substation, construction machines to be used
contains mainly mixing machine, bulldozer, shoveling machine and
automobile etc.. Power levels of their noise sources are listed in Table
4-2.
Table 4-2 Power levels of construction machine noise sources
Machine            Distance from      Noise source,
the machine, m        dB (A)
Bulldozer               1-2                 95
Shoveling machine           1-2                 95
Mixing machine            1-2                  85
Loader                  1                 <85
Vehicles                1                  <85
- 45 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power Transniission Project
(2) Noise level forecasting for construction period
By means of forecasting mode, construction noise levels at the substation
boundary (at 1m outside the boundary) are calculated and listed in Table
4-2. The calculation takes the following data into consideration: the two
proposed 500kV substations' occupation of land approximately 17.33ha
(about 322-335m long and 186-197m wide), buildings arrangement and
construction machine usage, and acoustic source data-noise level
comparison of major construction machines in Table 4-3.
Table 4-3 Noise forecasting values at construction site boundary
Distance (im)     10      15   20    30   40    50   80   100
Noise level     92      88.5  86   82.5  80   78.1  73.9  72
L gdB _(A )   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _
Chinese                  Daytime: 65-85dB(A)
standard                  Nighttime: 55dB(A)
From Table 4-3, the highest noise level at the 500kV substation boundary
is 92dB(A). According to GB12523-90 Noise Limits for Construction Site,
daytime and nighttime limits are 65-85dB(A) and 55dB(A) respectively;
daytime noise level on construction site of the substation (over 30m away
the enclosure walls) would meet the said limits. That is, construction
machines at daytime are required to be confined to the center area over
30m away enclosure walls.
(3) Construction of the substations' buildings is usually carried out at
daytime. Moreover, the residential house closest to the substation is 150m
away. Therefore, daytime construction noise on the substation site can
meet relevant standards. Nevertheless, construction work must come to a
stop in the evening to avoid noise impact on residents nearby.
Construction machines will be required to operate only on daytime.
4.2.4 Impact on geologic resources
- 46 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transniission Project
From the geologic prospecting report for the substation sites and tower
foundations, there is no mine around, which would not affect exploration
of mineral resources.
In prelirninary design phase, the 500kV substations got official approval
of Nanjing Municipal and Lianyungang Municipal Geologic Minerals
Bureaus. There is no mineral within the area substation sites cover and
along the transmission lines.
4.2.5 Impact on land function
Land occupation of the substation and tower foundation will shift the land
function from agricultural field to industrial land. During construction of
the substation and tower foundation, it is necessary to acquire some land
temporarily, which would bring effect on its function. However, the
acquired land will recover when construction is over.
4.2.6 Hydrological conditions and flood impact
The 500kV Longtan Substation site has relatively high topography and the
one-hundred-year flood conditin is chiefly caused by mountainous area at
upper reaches. Xiabutou site's one-hundred-year flood level is 11.75m
while the average elevation of the site is over 12.0m; therefore, the site
will not be affected by flood.
Flood suffered on the 500kV Lianyungang Substation site comes mainly
from local storm runoff. Moreover, Yanhe River etc. rivers close to the
site have no banks and so flood water is apt to overflowing in rainy
seasons and submerging the substation site. The one-hundred-year flood
level here is 3.64m while the elevation of the site is 2.7-2.9m lower than
the level. Flood preventative measures should be done on the substation
site. The preliminary consideration is to fill soil to add height of the site
- 47 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
base.
Low hills where the 500kV Dongshanqiao-500kV Longtan transmission
line goes through do not save accumulated water due to comparatively
higher topography. There is short-term water catchments in some gulch
sections, especially in bench land on both sides of Qixiang River and
Jiuxiang River where accumulated water level is between 0.5-1.0m.
Flood impact on the 500kV line Tianwan-Shanghe substation cut into
Lianyungang is similar to the 500kV Lianyungang Substation site.
4.3 Ecological environment
4.3.1 Damage to foliage and wild environment
Construction of the substation and its access roads might cause damage to
foliage and wild environment within the area occupied by the Project.
However, there does not exist nature area without human trace or wild
environment within the substation site because the site had human
activities and agricultural production 6000 years ago.
Some route of the transmission lines goes over low hills. Due to human
activities, most hills have been cultivated into terrace and trees in hill area
are manually planted. Consequently, construction of the lines will not
bring impact on nature area without human trace or wild environment at
all, although it might cause damage to foliage and wild environment
within tower foundation occupied land.
4.3.2 Impact on agricultural ecology incurred by land
occupation of the Proiect
- 48 -



EIA report for the extenLsion Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power Transmission Project
(I)Construction of the substation and transmission lines need acquire
some land at interim such as equipment transportation roads, walking
paths, and temporary houses of constructors etc.. All the occupied land
will grow crops again and crop growth will recover after construction.
Hence, crops would be destroyed for the occasion. Impact on crops
depends on seasons-wheat and cole are major plants influenced by
construction in winter and spring; cotton and paddy, in summer and
autumn.
(2) The substation will occupy land of 17.33ha totally with an annual
decrease of 198.9t/a. Grain production would reduce 6.54% annually in
Dongliu Village where Longtan Substation is located. And Grain
production would reduce 3.9% annually in Hexingzhuang where
Lianyungan Substation is located. Existing plants in the land would be
destroyed since construction begins and cannot rehabilitate later.
(3) Tower foundations will take up an area of 2.37ha, which would
decrease 27.0t/a of crop output every year. As construction begins, the
crops would be damaged and agricultural production will be affected
accordingly.
4.3.3 Impact on wetland ecological environment
Site-option of the two proposed substations has passed by lakes and
lowland and has no impact on ecological environment.
When the transmission lines cross rivers, no tower will be set up in water
without impact on water functions.
Within the substation site area, there are some manually excavated ponds
for raising fishes and other aquatic products, covering an area of 3000m2
or so. The area occupied by the ponds were farm fields originally. They
will be filled after being acquired for the Project with on impact on
ecological environment.
- 49 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmiission Project
4.4 Impact on social environment
Bulky cargo of the 500kV substation will be transported by means of
water and land routes. The necessity of building 3 docks, consolidating 3
bridges on the highway and rebuilding 2 bridges would cause interim
impact on shipping and highway traffic during construction. In addition,
convoying ships for large cargo transportation will also bring short-time
effect to the traffic. Therefore, it should avoid traffic rush such as
07:00-08:00 in the morning and 17:00-18:00 in the afternoon. Thus
traffic will not be interrupted by bulky cargo transportation; but vehicles
might run slowly which brings inconvenience to pedestrians.
Generally, construction and operation of transmission lines do not affect
highway traffic and river navigation. However, stringing of transmission
lines would incur some impact on highways and rivers they will
intercross.
Transmission lines of the Project will span 3 highways, national road
number 104 and urban 2nd and 3 ring roads.
A little dust will produce during construction of tower foundations; but
there would be no impact generally on highway environment and traffic
nearby.
Stringing of transmission lines intercrossing high-grade highways would
have interim impact on the highway traffic.
Navigable Qinhuai River intercrossed by the transmission lines has small
ship flux and narrow riverbed; hence, stringing of transmission lines here
will affect navigation little.
The 500kV Dongshanqiao-Longtan Substation line will cross 3 sections
of 220kV power lines. This transmission line has not only been designed
in accordance with Technical Regulation on Design of Aerial
- 50 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
Transmission Lines, SDJ3 and other relevant technical specifications and
rules, but has been constructed complying with operation manual and
technical regulation for intercrossing high-voltage transmission line
stringing. Construction of the line can not bring existing lines any impact.
Construction of tower foundations needs temporary access road which
will occupy farmland until construction is finished. Thus the road would
affect agricultural harvest for a short-term.
4.5 Impact on living quality environment
4.5.1 Impact on cultural resource
(1) Culture&education, sanitary and recreation locations
There is no hospital, school, sanatorium or reaction location near the
substation site and tower foundations and even the closest school is more
than 1.7km away the substation; so there does not exist impact on
culture&education, sanitary and recreation locations.
(2) Impact on historic relics
There is no discovered ancient graves or cultural relics on the ground or
under the ground near the 500kV Lianyungang Substation, Longtan
Substation sites and transmission lines as confirmed by local antiquity
department.
In the phase of selecting 500kV substation sites and 500kV transmission
line routes, the Project gained approval from local cultural relics
management authority and showed relevant documents issued by the
cultural relics management office.
- 51 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power Transmission Project
4.5.2 Impact on scenic spots and places of interest
The two proposed substation sites lie in countryside area and there is no
scenic spot or place of interest around. In addition, shunning beauty spots
and programming area has been taken into consideration during route
option of transmission lines. Therefore, no impact on scenic spot will
happen.
4.5.3 Impact on scenic view in the substation site area
Construction of the substation and transmission lines would incur
temporary impact on scenic view around.
4.5.4 Influx of labor force
(1) Principal work of the substation's and transmission line's construction
is undertaken by professional staff who have been trained on special
technology usually from electric construction companies within Jiangsu
Province territory. Due to speciality of their work, they cannot be
replaced by locals. However, some local staff may be hired to take up
foundation excavation, transportation of cubic meter of earth and stone,
conveyance of building materials and road building and repair etc.. That
can offer locals some temporary work opportunities.
(2)The mass of construction people will locally increase the
consumption and demand of social commodities and services. The
staple and non-staple foodstuffs, daily requisites and other services
required by the mass of construction people will lead to
acceleration of social commodities and further development of
tertiary industry.
- 52 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
(3) Demand of a great deal of building and constructing materials for the
Project's builidng will promote development of local building material
industry, initiate direct or indirect employment opportunities for the locals
and forward the development of local economy and enhancement of
living standard of local people.
(4) Nearly 100 persons will participate in construction of infrastructure of
the substation. The construction period of the substation will be one year
or so and so the immigrant construction personnel will stay in temporarily
built houses or rented residential houses nearby. The construction
personnel usually come alone without families and can go home to visit
their families during construction period. They will return to their
hometown when construction is finished.
For the construction team, its company has prepared stringent regulations
and management methods. All staff must observe the regulations and
will not affect social order much.
4.5.5 Land occupation and resettlement & rehabilitation
(1) From initial statistic results of present progress of the Project, the two
proposed substations (the 5OOkV Longtan and Liayungan substations)
occupy a total area of 17.33 ha without house removal or resettlement,
and the 500kV Yancheng Substation to be expanded need not acquire land
more. Tower foundations occupy 2.37ha and house area to be relocated is
1080Gm2.
(2) The two proposed 500kV substations don't require house removal.
The 500kV Dongshanqiao- 500kV Longtan Substation line need 12
families to resettle and so near 45 residents might be affected. The area
covered by the houses to be removed is approximately 10800m2.
Accurate removal area, family number and person number will be
determined in final site investigation because the transmission line project
- 53 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
is now in the route-option phase.
(3) During construction period, some land would be acquired temporarily
and can recover for farming when construction is completed.
(4)In  terms   of   land   occupation  and    compensation,  the
project-constructing unit-Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company
has trusted East China Reconnaissance Design Institute (ECRDI) with
this task. This report explains the issue only in principle. Refer to the
RAP for the Project by ECRDI about relevant details.
(5) The ownership of land belongs to the state as prescribed in Chinese
laws. Farmers etc. natural persons and enterprises just own right to use
land. The state conducts uniform programming and management of land
usage. For land requisition activity by the project-constructing unit,
associated requisition procedures must be implemented stringently in
compliance with Land Management Law and other relevant laws of
China. Existing land users will be compensated according to the above
laws for their right of land use and for objects on the ground such as
factory buildings and crops. Affected people's jobs, incomes and living
standard should be guaranteed with no reduction.
(6) In case affected mass could not be resettled from construction period
to operation period due to land requisition and house relocation, their
daily work and life would be influenced. Governments at different levels
pay much attention to this issue, make compensation and arrangement to
affected mass according to relevant regulations and try to resolve
problems in their daily life, labor allocation and house reconstruction, in
order to iminimize impact on affected mass.
- 54 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power 'Iransmission Project
5 Potential environmental impact during operation
period
5.1 Identification of environmental impact
Identification of environmental impact during operation period is listed in
Table 5-1.
Table 5-1 Identification of environmental impact
during operation period
Order              Item                              Environmental impact
1           Land occupation            Substation sites' and transmission lines' permanent
occupation, land function damaged, see 5.3.2
2        Substation afforestation              Helpful to improve atmospheric
Environment in some area, see
3         Electro-magnetic field                  Minor impact, see 5.2.4
4                Noise              - certain impact on acoustic environment
* no harmful impact on human generally, see 5.2.3
5          Sanitary water and                     Minor impact, see 5.2.1
oily wastewater
6                PCBs                      Use of PCBs stopped already, no impact
7           Wetland ecology         No impact except for artificial wetland (aquaculture fish
ponds excavated manually on the farmland), see 5.3.4
8              Vegetation               Some vegetation damaged by the substation sites
9             Rare animal                           No impact, see 5.3.1
10              Shipping                            No impact, see 5.4.1
11              Highway              Designed in compliance with Design Teclmi,cal Code of
Aerial Transmission Line etc., no impact see 5.4.1
12    Wire and radio communication   Designed in compliance with rules, no impact see 5.2.4
13            Cultural relics                       No impact see 5.4.5
14            Scenic view                           No impact see 5.4.6
15            Human health                          No impact see 5.4.4
16         Influx of operators      - no cultural conflict
* commercial income increased
* Due to operational personnel all living in the substation,
the entry road will be built, which will improve local
transportation facility without harm impact on existing
infrastructure. See 5.4.7
17        Agricultural production      No harvest on permanently occupied land see 5.4.3
- 55 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power Transmission Project
5.2 Impact on physical environment
5.2.1 Impact on waters
(1) One 500kV substation can discharge sanitary water of 2-5 m3/d every
day and a total of 800 m3/a discontinuously for one year. Major pollution
factors are SS, COD and oil. After being treated through buried secondary
biochemical disposal devices to meet the standard, sanitary water runs
into farnmland around for irrigation or drainage rivers nearby, or is used as
afforestation water in the substation. Owing to small quantity, such
sanitary water would not affect much water bodies around. Table 5-2 lists
wastewater effluent standards.
Table 5-2 Wastewater effluent standards  unit: mg/l
Wastewater effluent of the Project  BOD       SS        Oil
<20       <100      <1.0
GB8978-1996 Sewage Comprehensive      30        150       10
Effluent Standard, Class II
(2) Oily wastewater of the substation only comes from overhauling
transformers or accidental leakage and blows off once every 2-3 years.
Discharged oily wastewater will be collected in the accidental oil pond.
After going through the oil-water separator, oil will be reused and the
water will run into effluent rivers or used as afforestation water in the
substation after being treated to meet the standard.
(3) Chinese government has issued GB13015-91 Pollution Control
Standard For Wastewater And Pollutant Containing PCBs. For the
moment, all newly built substations do no longer use equipment
containing PCBs or equivalent. Therefore, there is no impact on
environment incurred by PCBs.
(4) No tower will be set up in water without impact on waters and sluice
- 56 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power Transmission Project
function of river way.
5.2.2 Impact on environmental air
(1) There is no impact on environmental air during the substation's
operation period.
(2)Afforestation of the substation area helps to improve local
environrnental air.
(3) Transmission lines during operation period have no impact on air
environnment.
5.2.3 Impact on acoustic environment
(1) The substations:
Before building of the substations, baseline measurement of ambient
background noise levels has been done for the two proposed substations
and one expansion substation. See the monitoring results in Table 5-3.
Table 5-3 Baseline of ambient background noise level
near the substation site
Substation          Day time (dB (A))       Night time (dB (A))
Proposed 500kV Longtan         43.2-45.9              37.2-42.5
Substation
Proposed 500kV              46.0-50.0              37.0-40.5
Lianyungang Substation
Expansion 500kV Yancheng        42.2-53.0              38.0-45.6
Substaion
Standard of environment
noise of urban area,         60 dB (A)              50 dB (A)
catalogue 2
- 57 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power Transmission Project
The ambient background noise level in the substation site area, between
47.2-53.0dB (A) at daytime and 37.0-45.6dB(A) at nighttime, meets
standard of Standard of environment noise of urban area, Catalogue 2 (60
dB (A) at daytime, 50 dB (A) at nighttime).
Noise of the substation comes principally from the main transformer and
reactor etc. large noise source equipment whose noise is between
69-76dB (A) .The noise level actually measured and surveyed of BBC
reactor is 73.4 dB (A) ; Toshiba etc main transformers, 75dB(A).
The 500kV Shipai Substation (with the main transformer of 1 X 750MVA)
and Chefang Substation (with the main transformer of 1 X 1000MVA) of
the East China (Jiangus) 500kV Power Transmission Project have been
put into operation.are measured. The measuring result of the said
substations is 43.5-58.3 dB (A) at daytime and 36.3-43.9 dB (A) at
nighttime, which is in compliance with the Standard of noise at boundary
of industrial enterprise, Catalogue 11 (60 dB (A) at daytime, 50 dB (A)
at nighttime).
The proposed 500kV Longtan Substation's scale is lxlOOOMWA;
Lianyungang Substation's, lx75OMWA and the expansion Yancheng
Substation's, Ix75OMWA. They have similar scales and equipment
arrangement as the above two substations. By means of noise forecasting,
calculation and analogical analysis, it gets clear that noise levels during
operation at boundary of the two proposed 500kV substations and one
expansion 500kV   substation  ----45.5-58.9dB(A) at daytime and
40.6-47.9dB(A) at nighttime will meet Standard of noise at boundary of
industrial enterprise, Catalogue 11 (60 dB (A) at daytime, 50 dB (A)
at nighttime). 150m away from the substation appear dwellings. The
estimated noise during the substation's operation period will have no
- 58 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
impact on acoustic environment of the dwelling far away the substation.
Table 5-4 is boundary noise forecasting results when the substation is put
into operation.
Table 5-4 Boundary noise forecasting results in operation of the
substations
Substation              Atdaytime (dB (A))              At nighttime (dB (A))
Background value  Forecasting value  Background value  Forecasting value
Proposed 500kV Longtan       43.2-45.9       45.5-58.0       37.2-42.5       40.6-47.0
Substation
Proposed 50kV Lianyungang      46.0-50.0       47.8-58.9       37.0-40.5       40.1-47.6
Substation
Expansion 500kV Yancheng      42.2-53.0       46.5-58.6       38.0-45.6       41.1-47.9
Substation
Stanidard                    60 dB (A)                       50 dB (A)
(2) The transmission lines
Noise level of right-of-way abroad or at home is usually below
5OdB(A). The actual measurement results of audible noise for East China
5OOkV transmission lines (Renzhuang-Huaiying, Huaiying-Jiangdu,
Jiangdu-Wunan, Doushan-Huangdu and Shipai-Shengpu) show: noise
value under right-of-way is 40.2-48.8 dB(A); it is estimated that noise
level under corridor of newly built transmission lines will be less than
5OdB(A) under normal power frequency, which will meet Standard of
Environment Noise of Urban Area (GB3096-93), Class II (6OdB(A) at
day time and 5OdB(A) at night time). Table 5-5 is operation noise level of
the transmission lines.
- 59 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
Table 5-5 is operation noise level of the transmission lines.
Transmission line            At daytime (dB (A))              At nightime (dB (A))
Background value  Analogy value   Background value    Analogy
value
Proposed 500kV
Dongshanqiao-Longtan          40.2-44.5        41.2-48.8        37.2-42.5       37.4-44.5
Substation line
The 500kV Tianwan Power
Station-Shanghe Substation line  40.0-44.2        40.2-48.0        37.2-40.1       38.0-45.6
cut into Lianyungang Substation
Standard                      60 dB (A)                        50 dB (A)
5.2.4 Impact on radiation environment
(1) Environmental impact of electric and magnetic field (EMF)
OSubstations
Before building of the substations, background of EMF has been
measured for the two proposed substations and one expansion substation.
See the monitoring results in Table 5-4.
Table 5-4 Ambient background monitoring results of the EMF
intensity around the two proposed substations and the
one expansion substation
Project name      Measuring point    Electric field        Magnetic field
intensity (V/m)        intensity (mT)
500kV Longtan     On and around the   0.780-1.650      0.162X 104A0.232X 104
Substation        substation site
500kV Lianyungang   On and around the   0.620-1.340      0.192X 104-0.277X 104
Substation        substation site
500kV Yancheng     On and around the   0.820-4.210      0.220X 104-0.240X 10-4
Substation        substation site
Recommended limit                4000V/m                0. I mT
- 60 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power 'rransrnission Project
From Table 5-4, the background electric and magnetic field intensity
around the substations are very low, at the magnitude of V/m and 10-4mT
separately less than 1/1000 of relevant recommended standard limits.
EMF of the operational 500kV Shipai Substation and Chefang Substation,
are measured-electric field intensity of 0.013-4.756kV/m and magnetic
field intensity of 0.032 X 103 -4.213 X 10-3mT. High values of electric
field intensity (4.756kV/m) slightly exceeding the standard of 4kV/m at
some boundary appear in 40m wide belt areas under the ingoing and
outgoing corridors. But this has been reviewed and approved by local
Environmental Protection Bureau.
From the above analysis, it can be estimated that the EMF intensity at
boundaries and in operation of the two proposed substations and one
expansion substation will generally comply with the recommended
standard limit of 4kV/mxO. 1 mT except for some areas under ingoing and
outgoing corridors. Because the three substations are over 150m away the
closest dwellings and there is no house near ingoing and outgoing
corridors where only short-time farming activities are conducted, no
impact would be incurred on local residents nearby.
(2)Transmission lines
* The actual measurement results of East China 500kV transmission lines
(Renzhuang-Huaiying,     Huaiying-Jiangdu,     Jiangdu-Wunan,
Doushan-Huangdu and Shipai-Shengpu) show: under right-of-way
electric field intensity is 3.724-12.09kV/m and magnetic field intensity is
0.651 X 10-2-10.259X 10-2MT.
* The ground field intensity limits for 500kV transmission lines
recognized in China nowadays are:
Route                       electric field intensity limit
Crossing farmland               9.5kV/m
Crossing highway               7.0kV/m
Close to residential houses    4.0kV/m
- 61 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
Magnetic field intensity: 0.lmT for the public radiation in one day
* Background values of electric field intensity and magnetic field
intensity of the transmission lines are separately 0.780-1.650V/m and
0.192 X 10-4_0.277 X 104mT, far less than the recommended limit of
4kV/mr  0.lmT.
-From actual measurement results for transmission lines under operation,
it can be estimated that electric field intensity within 40m wide belt area
under the proposed 5OOkV transmission line (two circuits) corridor is
between 3.802-7.807kV/m and high values occur below ingoing and
outgoing line. In addition, houses 5m away the 5OOkV side line are
required to remove without residents left. Therefore, ground electric field
intensity 1.5m away the transmission line corridor in operation will be
less than the limit 4kV/m and so meet the recommended limit. Magnetic
field intensity produced by the transmission line is between 4.928 X
10-3-6.888 X 103mT, far less than recommended limit of 0.lmT.
(2) Radio interference
Radio interference level allowable at 20m (not in outgoing direction)
outside the 5OOkV substation is 55dB ( i- V/m) at 0.5Hz in sunny days.
According to relevant information collection and monitoring results,
radio interference levels of substations at 5OOkV voltage grade in China
are less than 44 dB ( i- V/m) . It can be estimated that radio interference
produced by the Project will meet relevant standards.
Based on collected relevant information and actual measurement results,
radio interference level of 5OOkV transmission lines is known less than
44-46 dB( ii V/m). It can be estimated that radio interference produced
by 5OOkV transmission lines will meet relevant standards.
- 62 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
There is no television station or radar station around the three substations.
There is no impact on wireless communication during operation of the
substation.
5.3 Impact on ecologtical environment
5.3.1 Impact on rare birds
There is no migration route of rare birds around the two proposed
substations and transmission lines and so no impact on rare birds will be
incurred by the Project.
5.3.2 Impact on agricultural ecolo2Y
The land occupied by the two proposed substations grew formerly wheat,
paddy, cole and cotton ect. and economic crops such as green vegetables,
and garlic. Operation of the substation changes function of the land from
agricultural field into industrial land and the farmland is occupied forever,
which bring affection to agricultural production.
Tower foundations will occupy farmland or low hill area a little and bring
agricultural production some impact. If a tower foundation is located in
low hill area, some trees will be cut, which would damage vegetation
around the foundation. However, low trees will be planted around the
foundation.
5.3.3 Impact on ecologtical environment incurred by electric field
and noise
(1) Electric field will not affect growth of crops and other plants.
(2) It has not been found that electric field is likely to bring any harmful
- 63 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power Transmission Project
influence to wild animals in their action or health. When the electric field
intensity is up to 12kV/m, domestic animals' health and action are not
affected at all.
Operational electric field intensity of the substation will not have impact
on bird activity.
(3) All kinds of poultry or wild animals can live as usual under or near
the transmission lines. Some research results show that audible noise of
right-of-way have no impact on wild animal habitat.
5.3.4 Impact on ecological environment of wetland
Neither two proposed substations one expansion substation nor the
proposed transmission lines do occupy wetland. Hence, the Project will
not affect ecological environment.
5.4 Impact on social environment
5.4.1 Impact on traffic incurred by transmission line
operation
(1) The transmission lines have been designed in accordance with
Technical Regulation on Design of Aerial Transmission Lines, SDJ3 and
other relevant technical specifications for aerial transmission lines
intercrossing highways and rules concerned. The line intercrossing
highways have sufficient headroom without impact on traffic.
(2) The transmission line also has enough headroom where it crosses
rivers without impact on water and navigation.
(3) Impact on traffic incurred by electric field The maximum ground
- 64 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
electric field intensity produced when the 5OOkV transmission line cross
highways is no more than 5kV/m, less than the requirement of 7kV/m for
line crossing highways. Therefore, it will not affect traffic.
5.4.2 Intercrossed transmission lines' impact
The transmission lines have been designed in accordance with Technlical
Regulation on Design of Aerial Transmission Lines, SDJ3 and other
relevant technical specifications and rules. The 500kV transmission lines
over the 220kV ones have no impact on existing transmission lines.
5.4.3 Impact on agricultural production
The two proposed substations occupy an area of 17.33ha permanently,
which would reduce agricultural outputs. For example, the harvest would
decrease about 198.9t based upon a production level of 11.48t/ha.
Tower foundations occupy an area of 2.37ha causing annual decrease of
27.0t or so in crop harvest.
Tower foundations are built in farrnland bringing inconvenience to
agricultural mechanized farming.
Under transmission line corridor, low trees can be planted and there is no
impact on further agricultural farming and harvest.
The area where residential houses are removed under the right-of-way
can be returned to farm field for planting crops.
- 65 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power 'ransmission Project
5.4.4 Impact on environmental sensitive areas
For the reason that the three substations are over 15Gm away the closest
dwellings and there is no house near ingoing and outgoing corridors, no
impact would be incurred on local residential areas by EMF and noise.
Thc side transmnission lines have beeni designed to keep far away sensitive
areas such as residential quarters, sclhools and hospitals etc.. At tlle lowest
arc. residenltiall houses witllin 15m from the side transimission line imttst
be relocated and magnetic iield inltensity shoLuld be lower than the
recommended limit of 4kV/m; at thle hi1hest arc (close to towers).
residential houses within 8.5m  must he relocated and magnietic field
intensity should be lower than the recommnended limit of 4kV/rm. It is
estimated residents would not be affected harmfully.
Transmission lines affect radio communication by electromagnetic
interference from electric corona. In design, the lines have been far away
or passed by radio communication routes, for which radio communication
will not be affected.
5.4.5 Impact on cultural resources, scenic spots and places of
interest
The two proposed substations and transmission lines have been designed
to avoid schools, hospitals, cultural relics and scenic spots and places of
interest. Hence, no impact would be produced on them.
5.4.6 Impact on scenic views
The two proposed substations and transmission lines will be constructed
in even area and avoid resident gathering areas, towns and township
- 66 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power Transmission Project
programming area as far as possible. There will be no harmful impact on
scenic views.
5.4.7 Inilux of labor force
It is mainly 20 professionally trained technicians who conduct routine
operation during operation period of the Project. Similar with influence of
the labor influx during construction period, the operating personnel would
not generate inflict with locals in employment and culture. On the
contrary, their daily life demand will enhance incomes of local commerce
and services.
- 67 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power 'ransmission Project
6 Scheme analysis
6.1 Impact with no newly built substations and power
transmission lines
(1) Jiangsu Province lacks of available water resources and has no much
exploitable coal resources. Consequently, with the coal fired thermal
power plant for main electric power supply, Jiangsu power grid needs to
transport coal from other regions, which meanwhile increases pressure of
environmental protection in the provincial area. The State Environmental
Protection  Administration  performs  total  amount  control  of
environmental capacity, for which it is quite difficult to set up another
new electric power supply point on both sides of Yangtze River.
(2) Jiangsu power grid has neither hydraulic nor oil fired thermal power
plant and use basically coal fired thermal power plants as major
power supply points. Due to single power supply structure of the power
network, the units' function of peak regulation is weak, which causes
peak regulation capacity of units in the whole province to be insufficient
seriously. Whereas, peak gap of the power grid is becoming bigger and
bigger. The maximum peak gap of uniform dispatching amongst the
whole grid came up to 5762MW in 2000. Systematic peak regulation had
become more difficult.
(3) As rapid development of economy in Jiangsu Province, demand of
electric power has increased greatly. The forecasting values of electric
loads are analyzed as follows.
Electric load of Nanjing area keeps high growing speed during the Tenth
Five Year Plan period. It is estimated that the annual growing speed will
reach 7.72% and the highest load of Nanjing Municipal will be up to
3500MW till 2005.
- 68 -



EIA report for the extenLsion Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
Lianyungang power grid is estimated to be 580MW till 2005 and its
highest insufficient electricity will be 330MW.
In conclusion, it is quite necessary to construct the Project.
6.2 Schemes comparison
6.2.1 Substations
Several schemes were offered when the proposed substations were in
program and site-option phase. After being screened, all the site-option
schemes were compared with each other and analyzed according to
determined preliminary site locations. The scheme was selected after
being approved by administrative department and govemmental
management departments.
(1) 500kV Longtan Substation
* At engineering site-option stage, site investigation and substation
building conditions comparison were done with three site-option
schemes----Xujiaqian site, Xiabutou site and Guishanzui site. As a result,
the three schemes all have proper conditions for building 500kV
substations.
* The three sites are environmentally feasible. There is no industrial and
mining enterprises around the sites. Their environmental conditions are
all good.
* By analyzing economy, technology, traffic, operation and maintenance,
and physical conditions, it reached the conclusion that geographic
position, land requisition situation, water sources, engineering geology,
impact on communication facilities and operational management are
similar generally for the three sites; from the view of outgoing line
conditions, Xiabutou site is better, open and wide around; furthermore,
inland inundation never happens at Xiabutou and no house should be
removed there.
- 69 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
Xiabutou site was finally selected as the 500kV Longtan Substation site
after comprehensive analysis and comparison.
(2) 500kV Lianyungang Substation
* At engineering site-option stage, site investigation and substation
building conditions comparison were done with three site-option
schemes----Hexingzhuang site, Sunkouzhuang site and Dongxin farm site.
As a result, the three schemes all have proper conditions for building
500kV substations.
* The three sites are environmentally feasible. There is no obvious
polluting source or interacting broadcasting and television facilities or
interacting traffic facilities around the sites. Their environmental
conditions are all good.
* By analyzing economy, technology, traffic, operation and maintenance,
and physical conditions, it reached the conclusion that Hexingzhuang site
is closer to power supply and loading center; it is beyond urban program
and plan; farm land area per capita on the site is larger and land
requisition is easier. The three sites have their own advantages and
disadvantages. However, Hexingzhuang site is superior----substation
building conditions are better, outgoing line conditions for different
voltage transmission lines are better, and transportation of bulky goods is
convenient with less cost, and annual operational cost is lower.
Hexingzhuang site was finally selected as the 500kV Lianyungang
Substation site after comprehensive analysis and comparison.
6.2.2 Power transmission lines
( 1 ) 500kV Dongshanqiao Substation-Longtan Substation line
At rout-option stage, three route-option schemes were selected for the
- 70 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
500kV Dongshanqiao Substation-Longtan Substation line. They were
east scheme, mid scheme and west scheme.
The three schemes were feasible from the view of engineering. When
selecting the final scheme, mass' opinions and governmental ideas of all
districts and townships along the line routes were taken into
consideration.
Selected east scheme's house number to be resettled is the smallest and
its route trend would not affect local program and plan; while mid and
west schemes would bring certain impact on Jiangning Nongovernmental
High-tech Garden and new downtown of Jiangning District. Although
east scheme route goes (on the windward side) by east of Chunhua
Cement Mill, dirts of the mill would only bring minor impact on the line.
Nevertheless, routes of mid and west schemes goes (on the downwind
side) by west of the mill and dirts would affect the lines much. East
scheme meets environmental protection requirements and feasible
environmentally.
(2) Tianwan -Shanghe Substation line cut into Lianyungang Substation
This line is near the 500kV Lianyungang Substation. There is farm field
around without buildings. There was no comparative schemes because
the route was very short.
-71 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power rransmission Project
7 Environmental management plan and mitigating
measures
This report puts forward correspondingly environmental controlling and
monitoring program and mitigating measures according to environmental
impact produced by the substation.
7.1 During construction period
(1)Low noise (less than 85dB(A)) construction machines should be
applied to construction of the substation. Construction should be carried
out mainly at daytime and be avoided at nighttime as possible to mitigate
environmental impact incurred by construction machinery.
(2)Guard fence should be established during construction of the
substation. Periodic water spray should be done with excavated naked
earth within the substation; soil-transporting vehicles should also be
flushed and covered with surface cloth so as to prevent dust from
affecting surroundings.
(3)Construction personnel will set up temporary houses and life facilities.
Sanitary water will be treated in septic tank and discharged complying
with the standard to prevent drainage of runoff water.
(4) At site-option stage, the substation was designed to be far away from
residential and sensitive areas. The shortest distance between dwelling
and the substation is 150m and moreover, impact on residents will be
minimized during construction to meet associated design regulations and
environmental protection requirements.
(5) In design, some distance between transmission lines and residential
quarters/sensitive areas has been taken into account, meeting relevant
- 72 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
design regulations and environmental requirements, to ensure safety of
residents around.
(6) Stringing of transmission lines when crossing highways and rivers
should shun traffic rush time; in design, headroom distance of conducting
wires has been considered fully so as to ensure highway traffic safety and
transmission line operation safety.
(7) Power distributing structure's height should be determined according
to design standard. Negative phase sequence alignment should be
employed as possible for two circuits transmission lines so as to reduce
electro-magnetic field intensity effectively.
Refer to Table 7-1 about mitigating measures of the substation (page 81).
7.2 During operation period
(1) Use low noise equipment (less than 85dB(A)) as possible.
(2) Make general arrangement of the substation reasonably and arrange
the main transformer at center of the substation to minimize
environmental impact incurred by operation noise.
(3) In order to prevent transformer oil leakage, the accident oil pond has
been designed in the substation. Transformer oil can run into the pond
directly if necessary and will be recycled together and reused.
(4)One operational 500kV substation will produce sanitary water of
830t/a, which would be discharged after being disposed through buried
second biochemical sewage treatment systems, and meet the standard.
(5) The substation is designed with fireproofing and explosion-proofing
walls between main transformers and with alarm system and manual/auto
- 73 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
extinguishing devices around the main transformers.
(6) All the electric equipments have been designed with earthing devices
to strengthen operational safety.
(7) Promote propagation and education on electric equipment safety
knowledge among the masses near the substation and transmission lines,
and advise residents close to the substation of the way to do agricultural
production safely.
(8) Stand a warning sign near the substation outgoing lines and
transmission lines with high electric field intensity to advise residents not
to stay there or do farming for a long time.
Refer to Table 7-1 about mitigating measures of the substation (Page 81).
7.3 Land occupation and compensation
The two proposed substations and tower foundations would occupy
certain amount of land. The mitigating and compensating measures to be
made are as below:
(1)Construction sites and entry roads occupied by the substation and
tower foundation during construction period should be used as short and
small (time----about half a year and area) as possible. Besides,
corresponding crop outputs should be compensated when using the land
as well as paying land rent.
(2)The two proposed substations have been arranged fully reasonably in
design to minimize land occupation area.
(3) The lollowing actions should be taken for the land to be occupied
- 74 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
permanently by the substation and tower foundations:
* The project-constructing unit ought to determine area and type of
occupying land, give compensation-paying requisition compensation
charge according to Land Management Law.
7.4 Resettlement and rehabilitation
There does not exist resettlement but land reallocation issue in building
of the two proposed substations. In compliance with Land Management
Law etc. relevant rules, economical compensation will be done with the
land to be acquired for construction of the Project to assure living quality
of affected masses would not depress. Refer to the Resettlement Action
Plan (RAP) for the Project by ECRDI about relevant details.
Construction of transmission lines requires relocation of some residents
who should be resettled. About 45 persons of 12 families are involved
and detail resettlement will be described in final route investigation
report. The authority should compensate these residents according to
relevant national rules to guarantee life quality of the affected mass
would not fall. Refer to the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for the
Project by ECRDI about relevant details.
7.5 Cultural resources
In case something is found by constructors during construction of the
substations and tower foundations, the site should be protected and
construction work must be halted according to Chinese law. After the find
is reported to local antiquity protection department, the department will
make an assessment on it. Construction cannot be continued until the
department grants permission.
- 75 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
7.6 Scenic views
Design of the substation's buildings should be in harmony with local
natural environment without impact on scenic views around. Ideas from
local program department should be considered fully in terms of
transmission line trend for the purpose that urban and township
programming areas will be passed by without impact on scenic views
along the line.
7.7 Protection of ecological environment
(l)Access roads of the substation and tower foundation would damage
plants on the ground surface for a short term. The occupied land and
production should recover in time in order to maintain agricultural
ecological environment when construction is finished.
(2) After construction of the substation, afforestation will be done on
naked ground within the boundary. In design, green area should be
maximized as possible.
(3) Design of transmission line route should be optimized: under design
conditions, the line going over low hills should cross the area as possible
to minimize tree lop and keep ecologic environment balanced. This work
should be done by the construction unit.
7.8 Labor safety and protection
(1) Labor safety and protection of the Project during construction and
operation periods will be carried out according to requirements of two
rules-Interim Provisions On Occupational Safety and Health
Supervision of Producibility Construction Engineering Projects (Labor
- 76 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Trransmission Project
Administration) and Interim Provisions of Implementing "Three
Synchronousness "for Labor Safety and Industrial Health of Producibility
Construction Engineering Projects (Energy Administration). This work
will be in the charge of construction unit.
(2)In addition to strict implementation of work safety and protection for
operators of the substation in accordance with relevant rules, education of
the following aspects should be carried out aiming at the substation's
operational performances:
* Fire, explosion and dust prevention in the substation
* Prevention of injury from electric shock, machinery and others
* Prevention of operational noise, cold and moisture
* Preventing impact of EMF, for example, electrostatic-induction proof
shielded clothes should be worn when patrolling under 5OOkV and 200kV
distributing devices.
* Rail fences and metal structures around the substation should be
grounded section by section to ensure safety.
7.9 Monitoring management
(1) During construction period
* Impact on ecological environment on the temporary occupied land will
be monitored for construction of the substation. And the construction unit
will be supervised for the purpose of occupying little cultivated field as
possible and reverting ecological environment timely on the temporary
occupied land.
* Measure periodically fly dust, noise, production and sanitary sewage on
the construction site.
(2) During operation period
- 77 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
* Periodic monitoring will be performed for EMF intensity, noise at the
boundary and sanitary water of the 5OOkV substation in operation so as to
estimate potential impact incurred by the operational substation.
* Environmental pollution should be monitored aperiodically along
transmission lines.
(3) Monitoring during construction period
The assessment institute----State Power Environmental Protection
Research Institute will monitor environmental impact during construction
period of the two proposed and one expansion substations.
The major monitoring factors are construction noise, wastewater and
construction fly dust.
Construction noise and fly dust will be monitored once during
construction period. And monitoring frequency for wastewater will be
once every three months during that period.
Monitoring methods: boundary construction noise will be measured with
an integral sound level meter and the monitoring cost will be 60,000 yuan
(RMB); construction dust level will principally be assessed by
observation and the cost will be 10,000 yuan (RMB); wastewater will be
sampled and delivered to environment monitoring station for testing and
analyzing, costing 60,000 yuan (RMB). In addition, recovery of
temporarily occupied land during construction of the substation will be
supervised and cost 30,000 yuan (RMB).
Monitoring places: two proposed substations and one expansion
substation.
Monitoring device: integral sound level meter for measuring noise.
- 78 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
(4) Monitoring during operation period During operation period of the
substation, the major monitoring factors are operational noise, sanitary
water and electromagnetic field.
Monitoring frequency: noise at boundary----one time per half an year,
wastewater----one time per three months and electric field intensity and
magnetic field intensity----one time per year. In case local residents
complain, measurement should be made.
Monitoring methods: wastewater is measured and analyzed by Method of
Monitoring and Analyzing Water and Wastewater (3rd version); noise
level is measured as required in relevant regulations of Measuring
Method of Environment Noise of Urban Area (GB/T14623-93) and
Method of Measuring Noise at Boundary of Industrial Enterprises
(GB12349-90); and electromagnetic radiation is monitored according to
the recommended method in Monitoring Apparatus and Method of
Electromagnetic Radiation HJ/T10.2-1996.
Monitoring device: boundary noise is measured with an integral sound
level meter and electric field and magnetic field will be measured with an
American Holaday HI-3604 field intensity meter.
The noise monitoring cost will be 120,000 yuan (RMB) (including
purchase of three sets of apparatuses----sound level meters, 30,000 yuan);
the electromagnetic field monitoring cost will be 170,000 yuan (RMB)
(including three sets of apparatuses----Holaday HI-3604 field intensity
meters, 160,000 yuan); wastewater will be sampled from the outlet and
delivered to environment monitoring station for testing and analyzing,
costing 50,000 yuan (RMB).
Environmental monitoring in this extension project will adopt
apparatuses and equipment ever used in monitoring for the East China
(Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power Transmission Project.
- 79 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
Detail cost is listed in Table 7-2 (page 81)
7.10 Training plan
(1) During construction period
Constructors' training on environmental protection and construction
safety will be carried out by the construction unit and constructor
company to enhance their consciousness of environmental protection.
Constructors within the substation are educated by means of holding talks
and paper publicity.
The constructor company and Jiangsu provincial branch company of
State Power East China Company will be responsible for the training
which costs 50000 Yuan.
(2) During operation period
Operators' training on environmental protection and construction safety
will be carried out.
Environmental training's subject is mainly environmental protection and
safety----environmental impact assessment of transmission line projects,
preventative and protective measures for electromagnetic radiation of
transmission lines, and noise control of substations. Educate residents
near the substation by dissemination telling possible problems and train
operational personnel by training lectures.
The constructor company and Jiangsu provincial branch company of
State Power East China Company will be responsible for the training
which costs 100,000 yuan (RMB).
The Project has not begun yet and so detailed training program could not
be decided including training time, venue and staff.
- 80-



EIA report for the extemsion Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transnission Project
Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company has set up special
environmental protection posts in Power Supply Bureaus of each city.
Environmental protection specialists are assigned to these posts as
full-time managers, responsible for actual environmental protection work
of power supply units.
Table 7-1 Mitigating measures and the cost for the two proposed
substations and one expansion substation
Phase         Issue           Mitigating Measure      Cost (thousand    Institutional  Supervis-
yuan)        Responsibility    or
Constr-                     Use low noise (less than                    State  Power   Environ-
uction  Noise              85dB(A))     construction        100        Corporation      mental
equipment and do not use                    East    China  protection
high noise equipment                        Company        bureaus at
Dust               Guard fence and    water        50                         provincial
spray                                       and_I
Agricultural      Recover         damaged                                     municipal
Agricltural       vegetation timely when the  Refer to RAP       Jiangsu        and
construction ends                             Provincial     county
Sewage             Buried second biochemical       200            Electric     levels
sewage treatment system                         Power
Land occupation    Minimize land occupation                      Company
Clearance      in  Do    compensation    in    Refer to RAP
occupied land   accordance with laws
Training      on
environmental      Educate constructors            50
protection
Subtotal                                           400
Opera-t                     Use low noise (less than
ion    Noise              85dB(A))      equipment,        100
consolidated   enclosures
and do afforestation
Electri Fid a Use transforming devices
Electric Field and conform to standards; take
magnetic field    ..       .    .  '.150
magnetic___field  shielding actions in design
Treat   sewage   through
buried biochemical sewage
Wastewater         treatment system and make       100
it  compliant  with  the
standard
Training      on   Strengthen  education  to
environmental     local residents and training      50
protection         to managers
Subtotal                                           400
Total                                                      750
Note: *Mitigating measures for construction noise:
*Mitigating measures for construction fly dust: establish dustproof defense enclosures,
cover naked soil mound with rain clothing and spray water on naked ground periodically.
- 81 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
Defense enclosures and rain clothing will cost 40,000 yuan and spraying cost is 10,000
yuan.
*Mitigating measures for wastewater: build buried biochemical treatment system; the
system plus its construction will cost 200,000 yuan.
*Mitigating measures for operation noise: purchase low noise (less than 85dB(A))
equipment, add height of enclosure walls and plant flowers and grass.
*Management expenses for wastewater treatment will be 100,000 yuan.
*Mitigating measures for electromagnetic field: add the height of the 500kV and 220kV
distributing structures properly.
(Each mCeasure ind(ic.ted in the table should be specified in thc bid docunictrit.)
StaLte Power Corporatiotn E[Lst Chi iia C(ompany aticl Jiangsui Provincial ElectLic Power
Company will be responsible for the tneasures.
Table7- 2 Monitoring plan of the environmental management plan
for the two proposed substations and one expansion substation
Cost (thousand  Monitoring    Institutional
phase           issue                                                      Supervisor
yuan)          unit      responsibility
Constru-  Noise                      60         State Power   State Power  Environment-
ction     Dust                       10         Environme-    Corporation   al protection
Agricultural ecology       30            ntal       East China     bureaus at
Sewage                     60         Protection    Company,      provincial,
Subtotal                   160         Research                  municipal and
operation  Noise                     120         Institute     Jiangsu      county levels
Electric  field  and       170        (SPEPRI)      Provincial
magnetic field                                       Electric
Wastewater                 50                         Power
Subtotal                  340                       Company
Total                     500
* Frequency of noise monitoring is once during construction period and once every
half-year during operation period;
* Assess dust level through observation for dust monitoring;
* Electric field and magnetic field will be monitored once per year during operation
period;
* Frequency of wastewater monitoring is once every three months during construction
and operation periods.
* Monitoring factors: noise (Leq A), wastewater (BOD, SS, oil), electromagnetic field (electric
field and magnetic field).
"All mIeastireinienit should be matde on the site of' Longtan StiIbslitionr.. Lianvunlganlg
- 82 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
Substation and Yanchen- Substattioni: Xiabutou. H-lexinpzhuane andl Tafnchen Village.
*Measl-elncnllt should  be. mcnade  according  to the  followinlg  mnethods:( )
WasStc wa,tcr cSS-- 131 I 19()01 GCUvinetric letlod, 13()l)c-G 1374 !s-s7 Dilultioni aid
See(ling Mel/t()(. oil-- Non D)ispersive In f'red R(ty Spec! romiery (Monitoriln- meiliod
forv water and waste \water- (3"J edition). Chinese Environimilental Scienice P'ress.
1989);(2) noise: relevatnt requiirements of Tcchnical Code of L'Environimental
Monitoring, by State Environimiental IPIrotectioni Administration-,(3) electr'oinatnetic
field: to choose suniny days for measuLe.mentI considering topography anid avoidin-
high buildiigs. trees, hilgh-voltage tianismissioni lines andi metal structures.
8 Public participation
The Project will use remaining sum of the loan by the World Bank. The
two proposed substations and one substation to be expanded are scattered
in three cities. In compliance with requirements on EIA of the Project of
the World Bank and China, opinions and suggestions have been collected
widely from all circles of the society by holding talks, handing out public
consulting forms and reporting through news media.
During the course of designing the substation, the construction unit and
design department visited units concerned to collect information and
select substation sites. They also held forums to consult all government
departments for opinions and ideas on construction of the Project. Finally,
the substation sites were determined after argumentation by the
governnment and experts. Specialized investigation consulted the affected
masses widely on the selected 5OOkV substation sites.
8.1 Public participation in site option and design
The Project has collected opinions and suggestions from the governments
- 83 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
at all levels, departments concerned and affected masses widely at the
stages of project preparation, information collection and exploratory
survey, site determination, route ingoing and outgoing directions, and
scheme comparison.
Opinions from local governments, experts of functional departments, and
management departments at the location of the Project were heard at the
examine meeting of Longtan and Lianyungang substations' site-option in
Nanjing and Lianyungang Municiples. For the purpose of selecting
optimum scheme to minimize resettlement of dwelling and to avoid local
township programming areas, scenery preservation zone and cultural
relics, the design department offer many schemes to the said departments
for discussion, screening and acceptance of their ideas.
During planning and engineering site-option of the Project, the following
units were paid a visit to, mainly including Jiangsu Provincial National
Land   Bureau,  Nanjing  Municipal  Plan  Committee,  municipal
construction committee, municipal national land bureau, program bureau,
mineral  resource  management   department,  antiquity  protection
department, navigation route management and electricity supply
departments. Relevant information is contained in Table 8-1. And the
summary of opinions is as below:
(1) Opinions upon construction of the Project
* Construction of the Project will not affect township construction and
programming.
* Construction of the Project has interim impact on highway and river
traffic but the impact will not exist after it is finished.
* Construction of the Project has no impact on communication and
broadcasting facilities.
* Construction of the Project will not cover mineral resources without
impact on exploit of mineral resource.
* Construction of the Project has no impact on cultural relics, historic
- 84 -



EIA report for the extension lProject of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
relics and places of interest, tourism resources and scenic views.
(2) Opinions upon impact on social economical environment
Jiangsu Province is an economically developed area throughout China.
However, all parts make uneven development with disproportioned
demand of energy. As all parts have rapid increase in economy recently,
energy has been in short supply. In order to promote economic prosperity
better, it is very necessary to construct the Project.
* Construction of the Project is quite beneficial to promote economnic
development of Jiangsu Province, increase employment opportunities and
upgrade living quality of the people.
-Construction unit of the Project should compensate economically
the affected masses so that their living standard will not lower.
Table 8-1 Opinions on determination of substation sites
Order            Unit name            Investigation item  Opinion   Project name
I        Lianyungang Municipal     Construction of the  Full support  Lianyungang
Government                Project                    Substation
2      Lianyungang Municipal Plan   Programming of     Support    Lianyungang
Committee               substations                 Substation
3     Lianyungang Municipal Program  Programming and   Consent    Lianyungang
Committee               site option                 Substation
4     Municipal national land resource  Land requisition  Consent  Lianyungang
bureau                                             Substation
5      Lianyungang Municipal Water   Construction of   Consent    Lianyungang
Conservancy Bureau            docks                     Substation
6      Guanyun County government   Construction of the  Full support  Lianyungang
Project                    Substation
7      Guanyun County Construction  Programming of     Support    Lianyungang
Committee               substations                 Substation
8      Guanyun County Plan Bureau   Programming and    Consent    Lianyungang
site option                 Substation
9      Guanyun County national land  Land requisition  Consent    Lianyungang
bureau                                             Substation
10        Guanyun County water        Construction of  Consent    Lianyungang
_______  conservancy bureau         docks                     Substation
11    Yilu Township, Guanyun County  Construction of the  Full support  Lianyungang
Project                    Substation
- 85 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
12        National Land Resource     Land occupation   Consent    Lianyungang
Department of Jiangsu Province                               Substation
13                                  Construction of the  Full support  Longtan
Nanjling Munilcipal               Project                    Substation
Government
14        Nanjing Municipal Plan     Programming of     Support     Longtan
Committee               substations                 Substation
15              municipal           Programming and    Consent      Longtan
N anl l J l lnl g m U I l l C l p a l   site option          Substation
progranmning bureau
8.2 Specialized public participation investigation
In order to consult all circles of the society for the Project and its
environmental protection, we made this specialized investigation for the
two proposed substations, one expansion substation and the transmission
lines by means of holding talks and handing out public consulting forms.
Detail places are listed in Table 8-2. Investigation was made in
Lianyungang and Yancheng in the middle ten days of December, 2001, in
Nanjing early Februrary this year and in Nanjing and Lianyungang early
April this year.
See location distribution in Table 8-2 where public participation was
carried out. See partial public representatives' name list in Table 8-3.
Table 8-2 Location distribution where public participation carried out
Order           Project name                          Project location
1       5OOkV Longtan Substation       Dongliu Village, Qilin Town, Jiangning District,
Nanjing Municipal
2     500kV Lianyungang Substation      Hexingzhuang, Yuchan Village, Yilu Township,
Guanyun County, Lianyungang Municipal
3       500kV Yancheng Substation  Tangchen Village, Guomeng County, Yancheng Municipal
4     Tianwan Power Station-Shanghe           Xiaotangwei and Pengzhuang,
Substation 500kV line cut into        Yilu Township, Guangyun County
Lianyungang Substation
5     500kV Dongshanqiao-Longtan              Renjiabian and Beisangzhuang,
substations line               Jiangning District, Nanjing Municipal
- 86 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
Table 8-3 Partial public representatives' name list
Full name    Gender               Unit name                 Occupation        Project name
Huaiyin Qiu    male        Xiabutou, Dongliu Village,       Conveyance          Longtan
Qilin Town                                    Substation
Wujiu Zou     male         Xiabutou, Dongliu Village,         Farmer            Longtan
Qilin Town                                   Substation
Dezheng       male         Xiabutou, Dongliu Village,         Farmer            Longtan
Wu                                Qilin Town                                   Substation
Shilin         male        Xiabutou, Dongliu Village,       Accountant          Longtan
Ye                               Qilin Town                                    Substation
Huaizhu Qiu    male        Xiabutou, Dongliu Village,         Farmer            Longtan
Qilin Town                                    Substation
Shisheng Ye    male        Xiabutou, Dongliu Village,         Farmer            Longtan
Qilin Town                                    Substation
Guangxi Li    male         Xiabutou, Dongliu Village,         Driver            Longtan
Qilin Town                                    Substation
Zhengxiang     male        Xiabutou, Dongliu Village,       Village head        Longtan
Sun                              Qilin Town                                    Substation
Full name    Gender               Unit name                 Occupation        Project name
Xinbin Zou    male         Xiabutou, Dongliu Village,         Farmer            Longtan
Qilin Town                                    Substation
Guanghe       male         Xiabutou, Dongliu Village,         Farmer            Longtan
Zou                               Qilin Town                                   Substation
Yuxiang       male         Xiabutou, Dongliu Village,         Farmer            Longtan
Zou                               Qilin Town                                   Substation
Jiafu Wan      male        Xiabutou, Dongliu Village,      Doing business       Longtan
Qilin Town                                    Substation
Qingwen       male         Xiabutou, Dongliu Village,       Accountant          Longtan
Zhang                             Qilin Town                                   Substation
Yubao Zou     male         Xiabutou, Dongliu Village,         Farmer            Longtan
Qilin Town                                   Substation
Jiaxing Ge     male        Xiabutou, Dongliu Village,         Farmer            Longtan
Qilin Town                                    Substation
Wujun Ge      male         Xiabutou, Dongliu Village,         Farmer            Longtan
Qilin Town                                    Substation
Jiafa Qi      male         Xiabutou, Dongliu Village,         Farmer            Longtan
Qilin Town                                    Substation
Caijiang      male         Xiabutou, Dongliu Village,         Farmer            Longtan
Sun                              Qilin Town                                    Substation
Changqin     female        Xiabutou, Dongliu Village,    Woman committee        Longtan
Zhang                             Qilin Town                  member           Substation
Wensheng      male         Xiabutou, Dongliu Village,       Village head        Longtan
Zou                               Qilin Town                                   Substation
Anlin Chen    male         Xiabutou, Dongliu Village,       Accountant          Longtan
Qilin Town                                    Substation
Pinghuai      male         Xiabutou, Dongliu Village,         Farmer            Longtan
Chen                              Qilin Town                                   Substation
Wuxi Zou      male         Xiabutou, Dongliu Village,         Farmer            Longtan
Qilin Town                                    Substation
Zhuanghui      male     Hesi Group, Xinggao Village, Yilu     Farmer          Lianyungnag
Gao                        Township, Guanyun County                            Substation
Fumin He      female    Hesi Group, Xinggao Village, Yilu     Farmer          Lianyungnag
- 87 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
Township, Guanyun County                              Substation
Chengmei       male      Hesi Group, Xinggao Village, Yilu     Farmer           Lianyungnag
Cao                        Township, Guanyun County                              Substation
Zebin Cao      male      Hesi Group, Xinggao Village, Yilu     Farmer           Lianyungnag
Township, Guanyun County                              Substation
Qingchuan      male      Hesi Group, Xinggao Village, Yilu     Farmer           Lianyungnag
Gao                        Township, Guanyun County                              Substation
Yan C'ao       male      Hesi Group, Xinggao Village, Yilu     Farmer           Lianyungnag
Township, Guanyun County                              Substation
Qingguo        male      Hesi Group, Xinggao Village, Yilu     Farmer           Lianyungnag
Gao                        Township, Guanyun County                              Substation
Jiachang      nmale      Hesi Group, Xinggao Village, Yilu     Farmer           Lianyungnag
Gao                        Township, Guanyun County                              Substation
Qinghong       male      Hesi Group, Xinggao Village, Yilu     Farmer           Lianyungnag
Gao                        Township, Guanyun County                              Substation
Xiaoguang      niale     Hesi Group, Xinggao Village, Yilu     Farmer           Lianyungnag
Gao                        Township, Guanyun County                              Substation
Full name     Gender               Unit name                  Occupation        Project name
Jiahui Gao     male      Hesi Group, Xinggao Village, Yilu     Farmer           Lianyungnag
Township, Guanyun County                              Substation
Jiadong Gao    male      Hesi Group, Xinggao Village, Yilu      Farmer          Lianyungnag
Township, Guanyun County                              Substation
Jiazhan Gao    male      Hesi Group, Xinggao Village, Yilu     Farmer           Lianyungnag
Township, Guanyun County                              Substation
Yonglin       female     Hesi Group, Xinggao Village, Yilu     Farmer           Lianyungnag
Zhang                      Township, Guanyun County                              Substation
Jiageng Gao    male      Hesi Group, Xinggao Village, Yilu     Farmer           Lianyungnag
Township, Guanyun County                              Substation
Qinghu Gao     male      Hesi Group, Xinggao Village, Yilu     Farmer           Lianyungnag
Township, Guanyun County                              Substation
Suhong        female     Hesi Group, Xinggao Village, Yilu     Farmer           Lianyungnag
Wang                       Township, Guanyun County                              Substation
Peiguang       male      Hesi Group, Xinggao Village, Yilu     Farmer           Lianyungnag
Gao                        Township, Guanyun County                              Substation
Jiaping Gao    male      Hesi Group, Xinggao Village, Yilu     Farmer           Lianyungnag
Township, Guanyun County                              Substation
Jiating Gao    male      Hesi Group, Xinggao Village, Yilu     Farmer           Lianyungnag
Township, Guanyun County                              Substation
Qinghai Gao    male      Hesi Group, Xinggao Village, Yilu     Farmer           Lianyungnag
Township, Guanyun County                              Substation
Chengli Cao    male      Hesi Group, Xinggao Village, Yilu     Farmer           Lianyungnag
Township, Guanyun County                              Substation
Yimeng         male    The Seventh Group, Tangchen Village,    Farmer             Yancheng
Yang                    Guomeng Township, Yandu County                           Substation
Guoliang       male    The Seventh Group, Tangchen Village,    Farmer             Yancheng
Zhu                     Guomeng Township, Yandu County                           Substation
Yizhu Yang     male    The Seventh Group, Tangchen Village,    Farmer            Yancheng
Guomeng Township, Yandu County                           Substation
Shuyuan        male    The Seventh Group, Tangchen Village,    Farmer             Yancheng
Chen                    Guomeng Township, Yandu County                           Substation
Yuefang       female    Guomeng Township, Yandu County      Member of the         Yancheng
- 88 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
chen                                                       Woman's Federation     Substation
Zuo Shiwei     male    Pengzhuang Group, Zhoubei Village,       farmer             500kV
Yilu Township, Guangyun County                        transmission line
Zuo Shiquan    male     Pengzhuang Group, Zhoubei Village,       farmer             500kV
Yilu Township, Guangyun County                        transmission line
Yin Rukuan     male    Xiaotangwei Group, Zhoubei Village,      farmer             500kV
Yilu Township, Guangyun County                        transmission line
Li Shijun     male    Xiaotangwei Group, Zhoubei Village,     headman             500kV
Yilu Township, Guangyun County                        transmission line
Yin Kaibin    male     Xiaotangwei Group, Zhoubei Village,     farmer              500kV
Yilu Township, Guangyun County                        transmission line
Wang        male    Beishang Village, Tangshan, Jiangning    farmer              500kV
Guihua                                                                       transmission line
Wang        male    Beishang Village, Tangshan, Jiangning     farmer             500kV
Guisheng                                                                      transmission line
Sun        male    Beishang Village, Tangshan, Jiangning     farmer             500kV
Xianirong            I                                                      I transmission line
Full name     Gender               Unit name                  Occupation         Project name
Hou        male     Beishang Village, Tangshan, Jiangning    farmer             500kV
Wangsheng                                                                      transmission line
Jiang       male    Beishang Village, Tangshan, Jiangning    farmer              500kV
Xingwang                                                                       transmission line
Yuan Lei     male     Beishang Village, Tangshan, Jiangning    farmer             500kV
transmission line
Tu Ciuihai    male       40 Renjiabian, Yinxiang Village,      farmer              500kV
Jiangning District                             transmission line
Ren        male       21 Renjiabian, Yinxiang Village,       farmer             500kV
Jiasheng                      Jiangning District                              transmission line
Zhou Youcai    male       6 Renjiabian, Yinxiang Village,        farmer             500kV
Jiangning District                              transmission line
Ren Minyi     male       12 Renjiabian, Yinxiang Village,      farmer              500kV
Jiangning District                              transmission line
Ren Jiafa     male      23 Renjiabian, Yinxiang Village,       farmer              500kV
Jiangning District                              transmission line
Ren Jiahua     male      42 Renjiabian, Yinxiang Village,      farmer              500kV
Jiangning District                              transmission line
Ren Jiashun    male       13 Renjiabian, Yinxiang Village,      farmer              500kV
Jiangning District                              transmission line
Ren Jiajun    male       12 Renjiabian, Yinxiang Village,      farmer              500kV
Jiangning District                              transmission line
(1) Public investigation content
Main content to be told residents near the substations and transmission
lines is potential impacts incurred by the Project construction and
precautions near the substations and transmission lines.
- 89 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
(2) General description of public participation investigation
In this investigation, 80 public consulting forms (see Table 8-4) were
handed out near the two proposed substations, one expansion substation
and the transmission lines, of which 69 were returned and the returning
rate is 86.3%. Among the public participators, those having primary
school education      is 17%    and   those having     middle school or higher
education is 75%. And woman representatives occupy 8% of all persons.
See consulting results of these forms in Table 8-5.
Table 8-4 Public consulting form of the 500k substation and line
Intellectual
Name                Age          Sex                                   Profession
level
Working unit
Telephone
and addressing:
Select (please write V in O)
1. You think current economic development is:
El Very good  OBetter   ElOrdinary  OWorse
2. The main problem impacting economic development of region on the spot is:
O Electric power supplement  OTraffic condition  EONature source   OOther ONot known
3. You think whether construction of this power transmission project will be good for pulling
regional economic development on the spot or not:
Ol Yes   OlNo    OOrdinary    O Not known
4. You think construction of this power transmission project is:
E Very necessary  OOrdinary    ElLittle significant
5. You think the main problem of environment on the spot is:
E atmosphere   OWater body   ONoise   ODust    OOther   ONot known
6. By this power transmission project construction, the living quality of local residents will be:
OEnhanced greatly  OEnhanced    OLittle changed  ODeteriorated   OLowered seriously
- 90 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transrnission Project
7. Which environmental impact will be brought by this power transmission project construction:
L Agricultural farming -1Bioecology environment L]Electro-magnetic radiation IlNoise
OLand occupation ElImpact on scenic viewlmpact on traffic  E]Not known
_. Answer
I.What impact will be drawn to the society and your family do you think with this power
transmission project construction?
2.Please talk about some advice and opinion relevant to environmental protection of this power
transmission project construction.
(It can be appended paper if this list is not big enough for writing)
Table 8-5 Public consulting results
result              object      500kV        500kV        500kV        500kV
_)               \Longtan               Lianyungang   Yancheng    transmission
content                       Substation  Substatation  Substation     line
current        Good              10           22            3           10
economic       ordinary           12           -            1            4
development
problem        Electric power    10           18            1            6
impacting      supplement
economic       Traffic           15           15            1            8
development    condition
Nature source      5            -            3            2
Main            Air pollution     -            1            2            9
problem    of Water               8            1            2            1
environment    pollution
Noise              11          22            2            3
pollution
Dust pollution     5
- 91 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 500kV Power Transmission Project
Construction of the Project will  10     21          21
be beneficial to improving the
living quality of local residents
environmental  Electromagn   16          19           3          4
impact will be  etic radiation
brought by the   Noise        8          20           1          5
Project       Land         10          9           3          5
construction  occupation
Agricultural    1          16           4          5
farming
(3) Opinions on the Project from the public near the 500kV substations
* Construction   of the Project will be good for regional economic
development on the spot, can increase employment opportunities and
enhance living quality of the public.
Construction of the Project should make economic compensation for the
occupied land and acquired land at interim, recover the temporarily
acquired land timely. Various types should be taken to arrange
superfluous labor force.
* Relocated houses should be compensated economically in construction
of transmission lines to ensure living standard of affected mass would not
drop.
* Construction of the Project should minimize clearance of crops and
compensate affected crop outputs.
* EMF and operational noise impact on environment cause by the 500kV
substation was concerned much by the public and discussed ardently.
Persons of relevant specifics made detail introduction of relevant issues
- 92 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power Transmission Project
and dissolved worries of the public.
In response to problems put forward by the mass, concerning
professionals made a detail explanation to residential representatives in
terms of potential environmental impact caused by power transmission
construction. The acquired land must be compensated stringently
according to relevant national regulations (including land occupation and
young crops compensation). Land will be reallocated to farmers who lose
their farm field and surplus labor force will be arranged. Electromagnetic
field of the transmission lines in service was described in detail to the
representatives in addition to some respects to be cared about in future
life and production. For example, ground electric field intensity from
transmission line operation will decay to 4kV/m or so at the edge of
right-of-way (at 20m, vertical to corridor center line on the ground), and
so electromagnetic field intensity of the line can meet the standard limit if
there is some distance between the line and residential houses; electric
field intensity is comparatively higher near side lines ingoing and
outgoing the substation and so it is not suitable to do farming for a long
time under the lines; don't use an umbrella with iron handle in rainy days.
Electromagnetic field produced by the high voltage transmission lines can
weaken fast with the height and distance. As long as residents keep far
away the substation and transmission lines, electromagnetic field around
them can meet the limit value of 4kV/m.
After their questions were answered carefully, the residential
representatives thought that the power transmission construction would
not bring impact on them, from the point view of long distance between
the substation and dwelling (150m at least), if they pay attention to proper
farming under the transmission lines and near the substation.
8.3 Public participation investi2ation results
Local government, all functional departments and the masses on the
- 93 -



EIA report for the extension Project of East China (Jiangsu) 5OOkV Power Transmission Project
Project sites supporting construction of the Project consider it beneficial
to development of local industry and traffic and to enhancement of local
living quality; long-term and short-term occupied land should be
compensated in accordance with Chinese standards.
- 94 -



