Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4303 CHA
Project Agreement
(East China (Jiangsu) Power Transmission Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EAST CHINA ELECTRIC POWER GROUP CORPORATION
Dated  March 11, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4303 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 11, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and EAST CHINA ELECTRIC POWER GROUP CORPORATION (ECEPGC).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People’s 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount equal to two hundred fifty million Dollars ($250,000,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition 
that ECEPGC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in 
this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and ECEPGC, the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
made available to ECEPGC on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS ECEPGC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the Loan Agreement  and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ECEPGC declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out  the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, resettlement, 
technical, and public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and ECEPGC shall otherwise agree, ECEPGC shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) ECEPGC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, ECEPGC shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and ECEPGC a plan for the 
future operation of 
the Project; and
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
ECEPGC on said 
plan.
Section 2.04. ECEPGC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ECEPGC shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ECEPGC shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
ECEPGC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by ECEPGC of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ECEPGC
Section 3.01. ECEPGC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, technical 
and public utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ECEPGC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
Page  3
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, environmental technical and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. ECEPGC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ECEPGC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition 
and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
ECEPGC shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and in accordance 
with any changes to its auditing practices recommended by the Financial 
Management Consultants to meet international auditing standards;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of said 
financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (i) above, for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the audit plan and report of such audit, by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank may from 
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ECEPGC shall take 
all necessary measures, including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or 
the levels of its tariffs, to ensure that its internal cash generation for each fiscal 
year during the term of any debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times its 
estimated maximum debt service requirements in such year on all debt of ECEPGC, 
including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of ECEPGC maturing by its 
terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into.
(iii)
The term "internal cash generation" means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net 
non-operating income, excluding receipts 
from customer connection 
charges; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments 
Page  4
in lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges 
and 
interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including rates and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term “debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges 
on, debt, excluding capitalized 
interest during construction.
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable 
in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) ECEPGC shall enter into a power transmission agreement with 
JPEPC (JPEPC Agreement), satisfactory to the Bank, pursuant to which JPEPC shall agree 
to compensate ECEPGC for the total cost to ECEPGC of power transmission under a 
formula calculated using principles, satisfactory to the Bank, including: 
(i)
From January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2009, or the date on which 
ECEPGC fully 
repays its local currency loans in respect of the 
Project, whichever is later, 
calculation of ECEPGC’s total 
cost of transmission shall include ECEPGC’s: 
(a) full debt 
service requirements for the Project; (b) operation and 
maintenance costs for the Project (including depreciation but excluding debt 
repayments); (c) taxes payable in respect of the Project; and (d) an 
annual 
return of not less than 15% on the funds invested by 
ECEPGC in the Project.
(ii)
From January 1, 2010, or the date on which ECEPGC fully repays its 
local 
currency loans in respect of the Project, whichever 
is later, calculation of 
ECEPGC’s total cost of transmission 
shall include ECEPGC’s: (a)  full debt 
service requirements 
for the Loan; (b) operation and maintenance costs for the 
Project (including depreciation but excluding debt repayments); (c) taxes 
payable in respect of the Project; and (d) an annual return of not 
less than 
10% on the net fixed assets of the Project.
(iii)
For the purposes of this Section 4.03(a), “net fixed assets of the 
Project” 
means the gross value of the fixed assets formed 
under the Project less the 
amount of accumulated 
depreciation, and “gross value of the fixed assets 
formed 
under the Project” means one half of the sum of the gross value of 
fixed assets formed under the Project at the beginning and at the end of 
each fiscal 
year.
(b)
ECEPGC shall cause JPEPC to take all measures necessary to increase its 
tariffs in amounts at least sufficient to compensate ECEPGC as agreed under the JPEPC 
Agreement, including the submission of such increased tariff proposal to the 
provincial and other relevant authority for approval.
Section 4.04. ECEPGC shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and 
comment, by June 1 of each year commencing 1999, a rolling eight-year financial plan 
containing, inter alia, projected income statements, fund flow statements and balance 
sheets for each of the next eight years.
Page  5
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02.  This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of ECEPGC 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify ECEPGC thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI),   
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
For the Borrower:
East China Electric Power Group Corporation
201 Nanjing Road (East)
Shanghai 20002
People’s Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
2032
33308 ECEPACN
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ECEPGC, may be 
taken or executed by its General Manager, or by such other person or persons as said 
General Manager shall designate in writing, and ECEPGC shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  6
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Authorized Representative 
EAST CHINA ELECTRIC POWER
  GROUP CORPORATION
By /s/ Li Zhaoxing
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding
Specialized equipment estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent, and which the 
Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the 
Guidelines. 
Page  7
2.
International Shopping
Goods which are readily available off-the-shelf or are standard specification 
commodities and which are estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods of a proprietary nature, which are related to the expansion of existing 
substations, and for reasons of compatibility with existing equipment and 
standardization, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines provided that each contract costs 
less than $300,000 equivalent, and the aggregate amount of such contracts does not 
exceed $500,000 equivalent.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) all contracts for goods selected through international 
competitive bidding under Part B above; and (ii) each contract for goods selected 
through limited international bidding under Part C(1) above and estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for construction management may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Page  8
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
For the purposes of Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement, the Implementation 
Program shall consist of the following:
Power Sector Reform
1.
With respect to Part C (1) of the Project, ECEPGC shall:
(a)
implement the reform recommendations of the Initial Market Design for 
East China Power Network (IMDECPN) dated November 1997 prepared by ECEPGC, in 
accordance with a program and schedule agreed with the Bank; and
(b)
carry out and complete by April 30, 1999, the technical assistance 
programs for improved inter-provincial power exchange policies and procedures 
recommended in IMDECPN to develop new guidelines and procedures for power exchange and 
trade.
Institution Building
2.
With respect to Part C (2) of the Project, ECEPGC shall:
(a)
carry out studies on organizational restructuring and financial 
management systems in accordance with terms of reference and a schedule, acceptable to 
the Bank, and implement the recommendations of such studies by December 31, 2001, 
taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon;
(b)
by June 30, 1999, implement the improvements recommended in the study on 
transmission planning to be completed prior to December 31, 1998, under the Reform, 
Page  9
Institutional Support and Preinvestment Project (Credit No. 2447-CHA), taking into 
account Bank comments on the recommendations; and
(c)
carry out a program of management development and training for ECEPGC 
staff, acceptable to the Bank.
Environment
3. 
ECEPGC shall implement the Environmental Management Plan in accordance with a 
time bound action plan acceptable to the Bank.
Resettlement
4.
With respect to Part A of the Project, ECEPGC shall:
(a)
prior to commencing the Stage I Activities, carry out the resettlement 
required for said activities in accordance with the Stage I RAP;
(b)
prepare, in accordance with policies, planning principles, institutional 
arrangements and design criteria acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not 
later than December 31, 1998, a resettlement action plan for the Stage II Activities; 
and
(c)
prior to commencing the Stage II Activities, carry out the resettlement 
required for said activities, in accordance with such resettlement action plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank.
Project Monitoring and Reporting
5.
ECEPGC shall:
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank:  (i) the carrying out of the Project, including the Stage I 
RAP and Stage II RAP: and (ii) the achievement of the objectives of the Project;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank unaudited project accounts (including project cost estimates and project 
expenditures) and semi-annual reports on or about February 28 and August 31 in each 
year, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project, including the Stage I RAP and Stage II RAP, during the preceding calendar 
year; 
(c)
review with the Bank each report furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above hereof and take such measures to further the objectives of  the 
Project as shall have been agreed with the Bank;
(d)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank on or about March 31, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) above on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period since its 
inception, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(e)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2001, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (d) above, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
