Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4303 CHA
Loan Agreement
(East China (Jiangsu) Power Transmission Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 11, 1999  
LOAN NUMBER 4303 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 11, 1999, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by East China Electric Power Group 
Corporation (ECEPGC) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make available to ECEPGC the proceeds of the Loan as provided in 
this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
ECEPGC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Affected Person” means a person who on account of the execution of Part 
A of the Project had or would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely 
affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, 
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or 
possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of 
residence or habitat adversely affected, and “Affected Persons” means collectively all 
persons who qualify as  an Affected Person.
(b)
“Charter” means the charter of ECEPGC, approved under Approval Neng Yuang 
Zheng Fa Han [1993] 32, issued by the Borrower’s Ministry of Energy, presently known 
as the Ministry of Electric Power, dated February 19, 1993, as amended to the date of 
this Agreement.
(c)
“ECEPGC” means East China Electric Power Group Corporation, (previously 
known as East China Electric Power United Corporation), a corporate entity established 
and operating under the laws of the Borrower pursuant to the Charter, and any 
successor or successors thereto.
(d)
“Environmental Management Program” means ECEPGC’s environmental  
management program for mitigating and monitoring the environmental impact of the 
Project, dated February 16, 1998, based on the environmental impact assessment for the 
Project approved by the Borrower’s National Environmental Protection Agency, as the 
same may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
(e)
“Financial Management Consultants” means the consultants to be engaged 
under Part D of the Project to assist, inter alia, in the enhancement of ECEPGC’s 
financial and accounting capabilities.
(f)
“JPEPC” means Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company, a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of ECEPGC and a corporate entity established and operating under the laws 
of the Borrower pursuant to its charter approved under Approval Neng Yuan Dian No. 56 
/ 1988, dated December 19, 1988, as amended to the date of this Agreement, and any 
successor or successors thereto.
(g)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and ECEPGC of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(h)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(i)
“Stage I Activities” means construction work on (i) the Yangdong, 
Yancheng and Dongshanqiao substations; (ii) a total of 286 kilometers of the 500 kV 
transmission line; and (iii) the Nanjing Municipality transmission grid.
(j)
“Stage II Activities” means all construction work on Part A of the 
Project, except for Stage I Activities.
(k)
“Stage I RAP” means East China (Jiangsu) 500 kV Transmission Project 
Resettlement Action Plan dated January 1998 in respect of the work plan for the Stage 
I Activities setting out procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and 
compensation, as well as reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance 
with said plan.
(l)
“Stage II RAP” means a resettlement action plan in respect of the work 
plan for the Stage II Activities to be prepared in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 4 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
(m)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and ECEPGC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time; and the term “Subsidiary Loan” means the loan 
to be provided to ECEPGC thereunder.
Page  3
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to two hundred 
fifty million Dollars ($250,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring 
thereafter and, after the initial 
period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars 
for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case 
of the initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
Page  4
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause ECEPGC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of ECEPGC therein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken all actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources necessary or appropriate to enable ECEPGC to perform such obligations and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to ECEPGC under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ECEPGC under 
terms and conditions which shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Such terms and 
conditions shall include the following: 
(i)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid by 
ECEPGC in 
Dollars to the Borrower over a period not 
exceeding twenty (20) years, 
including a grace period 
not exceeding five (5) years;
(ii)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan repayable by ECEPGC 
shall be the 
equivalent in Dollars (determined as of the date, or 
respective dates, of 
repayment) of the value of the 
currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan 
Account; and
(iii)
the Subsidiary Loan shall be charged: (a) interest on the 
principal amount 
thereof withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, at a rate equal to the 
rate payable by the 
Borrower from time to time pursuant to Section 2.05 (a) of 
this 
Agreement; and (b) a commitment charge at a rate equal to the rate 
payable by the Borrower from time to time pursuant to Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement with ECEPGC in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement.  Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
ECEPGC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Page  5
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures 
are retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including 
a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
ECEPGC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that ECEPGC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or financial condition 
of ECEPGC or its ability to carry out the Project or the ability of ECEPGC to perform 
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ECEPGC or for the suspension of 
its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
Page  6
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and ECEPGC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
ECEPGC, and is legally binding upon ECEPGC in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and ECEPGC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ECEPGC in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address: 
Telex:
22486 MFPRC 
CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
Page  7
written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Zhaoxing 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
   (Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
233,600,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 75%
of local expenditures
for other items procured
locally
(2)
Consultants'
  4,400,000
100%
services and
training
(3)
Unallocated
 10,000,000
TOTAL
250,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from that region shall be deemed to be 
“foreign expenditures”; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $5,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
Page  8
before that date but after January 8, 1998.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less than $300,000 equivalent, (b) services provided by consulting firms under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) services provided by 
individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and 
(d) training; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in alleviating critical 
bottlenecks in the East China region power transmission infrastructure and to increase 
electricity trade on a commercial basis in that region through:  (a) the development 
of a reliable 500 kilovolt (kV) high voltage transmission network to facilitate cost 
effective location of generation capacity and transport of energy to load centers; (b) 
the transformation of ECEPGC into a commercial corporate entity; and (c) the 
development of a commercial regional market for power exchange and trade.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:
Part A:
System Expansion
1.
Strengthening ECEPGC’s transmission facilities crossing the plains north and 
south of the Yangtze River through:
(a)
Construction of nine new and expansion of three existing 500 kV 
transmission lines (approximately 993 kilometers (km) in the aggregate), including a 
new long-span (2.3 km) transmission crossing of the Yangtze River.
(b)
Planning, design and construction of five new (Yancheng, Yangdong, 
Nantong, Shipai and Shengpu) and expansion of two existing (Wunan and Dongshanqiao) 
500 kV substations, including the installation of all associated protection and 
communications equipment, to add a total of 5500 megavolt amperes (MVA) transformer 
capacity.
(c)
Construction of two new 220 kV substations (at Xiaguan and Daxingong), 
two new indoor 110 kV substations (at Xuanwumen and Shanghailu) and 10 km of a 220 kV 
line from Dongshanqiao to Longshan and installation of telecommunication and 
automation facilities at the Nanjing Municipal dispatching center to reinforce the 
Nanjing urban transmission systems.
2.
Strengthening ECEPGC’s Project engineering and construction management capacity 
to carry out Part A(1) of the Project by providing consulting services to:
(a)
review the design of and the bid documents and evaluation for works to be 
carried out under Part A of the Project; and
(b)
assist in the engineering and design interface coordination and 
construction management for such works.
Part B:
Resettlement
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons.
Part C:
Sector Reform
1.
Improving inter-provincial power exchange policies and procedures through the 
provision of consultants’ services designed to develop an incentive framework and 
institutional basis for resource pooling and efficient power trading between 
provincial systems.
Page  9
2.
Improving the accounting and financial management system of ECEPGC, as a holding 
company, based on the new structure of the power industry in China through the 
provision of consultants’ services, including a review of ECEPGC’s cost accounting, 
performance evaluation and financial planning.
Part D:
Institutional Development and Training
Enhancing ECEPGC’s transmission planning capability, including its managerial, 
legal, technical and financial capabilities, to meet the needs of the new structure of 
the power market in China through:
(a)
Management training and seminars for ECEPGC staff; and  
(b)
Procurement and installation of hardware and software necessary for 
ECEPGC’s power system planning and analysis.
*       *       *      *      *      *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
November 15, 2003
  5,275,000 
May 15, 2004
  5,435,000 
November 15, 2004
  5,595,000 
May 15, 2005
  5,760,000 
November 15, 2005
  5,935,000 
May 15, 2006
  6,110,000 
November 15, 2006
  6,290,000 
May 15, 2007
  6,480,000 
November 15, 2007
  6,670,000 
May 15, 2008
  6,870,000 
November 15, 2008
  7,075,000 
May 15, 2009
  7,285,000 
November 15, 2009
  7,500,000 
May 15, 2010
  7,725,000 
November 15, 2010
  7,955,000 
May 15, 2011
  8,190,000 
November 15, 2011
  8,435,000 
May 15, 2012
  8,685,000 
November 15, 2012
  8,945,000 
May 15, 2013
  9,210,000 
November 15, 2013
  9,485,000 
May 15, 2014
  9,765,000 
November 15, 2014
 10,055,000 
May 15, 2015
 10,355,000 
November 15, 2015
 10,665,000 
May 15, 2016
 10,980,000 
November 15, 2016
 11,305,000 
May 15, 2017
 11,645,000 
November 15, 2017
 11,990,000 
May 15, 2018
 12,330,000
____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Sections  4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
Page  10
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $6,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $80,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out 
of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
Page  11
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account:  (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
