Document of                   FILE  CP
The World Bank                                COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2431-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 7, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =      Peso (P)
US$1                P 7.4
p 1.00       =      $0.135
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BPW      -     Bureau of Public Works
MASICAP  -     Medium and Small Industries Coordinated Action
Program
MHS      -     Ministry of Human Settlements
MMA      -     Metro Manila Area
MMC      -     Metro Manila Commission
MPWTC    -     Ministry of Public Works, Transportation
and Communications
NEDA     -     National Economic and Development Authority
NHA      -     National Housing Authority
SIR      -     Slum Improvement and Resettlement Program
ZIP      -     Zonal Improvement Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FUR OFFICL&L Ub- iNLY
PHILIPPINES
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:             Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiary:          National Housing Authority
Amount:               $32 million equivalent
Terms:                The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including
5 years of grace, with an interest rate at 7.35%
per annum.
Relending Terms:      The Government would relend $26.24 million of the
proceeds of the proposed loan to the National Housing
Authority (NHA) on the same terms and conditions as
those for the proposed Bank loan to finance project
construction work, technical assistance and loans for
building materials and for small business ventures.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk on
the Bank loan. The Ministry of Public Works, Transport
and Communications (MPWTC) would use $4.57 million of the
proceeds for procuring flood control equipment, related
infrastructure and training. The National Economic and
Development Authority (NEDA), Metro Manila Commission
(MMC), and Ministry of Human Settlement (MHS) would
receive $1.19 million for technical assistance and
training.
Proliect
Description:        The project would support the Government's program of
slum upgrading and the provision of serviced lots for
low income households in the Metro Manila Area and in
the three secondary cities of Davao, Cebu, and Cagayan
de Oro. The project would also provide funds for:
(a) employment promotion through the development of
commercial and industrial sites, business loans, and
technical assistance to small entrepreneurs, and (b)
assistance to the National Housing Authority (NHA), the
Ministry of Human Settlements (MHS) and the Mletro Manila
Commission (MMC) in institutional development and training.
The project is expected to benefit directly approximately
110,000 people in the urban poverty group in Metro Manila,
and 78,000 in the three secondary cities. The primary
risks are related to the fact that the Government's
program has only recently been established. The project
units in the regional cities were created only recently,
and have not yet been tested.  In addition, existing
programs of NHA have strained NHA's financial and staff
resouirces, and the local governments responsible for
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
implementation are only now beginning to develop an
effective working relationship with NHA on financial and
technical matters. The use of advisory consultants in NHA
and the regional cities is expected to reduce significantly
this risk. Other risks involve cost recovery; the finan-
cial viability of these programs will depend in large part
on efficient collection procedures. It is believed that
the proposed land tenure arrangements involving an option
to purchase freehold title will provide strong incentives
on the part of beneficiaries to meet scheduled payments.
Estimated Cost:                                     Local    Foreign   Total
…---   ($ million)------
Infrastructure                           16.9       13.2     30.1
Core housing                              3.1        1.0       4.1
Building material loans                   1.4        0.5       1.9
Community facilities                      2.3        1.5       3.8
Land and reclamation                      2.2        1.5       3.7
Small business loans                      1.1        1.1       2.2
Technical assistance                      1.8        3.9       5.7
Flood control equipment                    -         1.9       1.9
Subtotal                           28.8       24.6      53.4
Physical contingencies                    2.4        1.9       4.3
Price contingencies                       6.7        5.5     12.2
Total                             37.9       32.0      69.9
Financing Plan:
Source                          Local       Foreign      Total
Government appropriations        13.7           -        13.7
NHA's bond issues                 5.4           -         5.4
Beneficiary charges              18.8           -        18.8
World Bank                         -          32.0       32.0
Total                       37.9         32.0      69.9
Estimated
Disbursements:
Fiscal Year   1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
…------ ($ million) -----------
Annual                        1.5     4.1    13.2    10.5       2.7
Cumulative                    1.5     5.6    18.8    29.3    32.0
Rate of Return: 34%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 2048-PH dated December 1, 1978.



REPORI AND RECOMMENDATION OF `IrE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNAIIONAL BANK FOR RECui\lIKulLtN AND ohVELU±'MrL-i
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendatio, on a propoReA
loan to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $32.0 million
to help finance a Second Urban Development Project. The loan would have a
term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.35% per annum.
The Government would relend $26.24 million of the proceeds of the loan to the
National Housing Authority (NHA) on the same terms and conditions as those for
the proposed Bank loan to finance project construction work and technical
assistance and to open lines of credit for building materials loans and for
small business loans; $4.57 million would be allocated to the Ministry of
Public Works, Transport, and Communications (MPWTC) for procurement of flood
control equipment, training, and related infrastructure; $1.19 million would be
allocated to the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA), Metro
Manila Commission (MMC), and Ministry of Human Settlements (MHS) for technical
assistance and training. The Government would assume the foreign exchange
risk on the funds to be relent to NHA.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977
and its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH
of October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors under
SecM-PHL 77-2, dated October 27, 1977. A basic economic report, entitled "The
Philippines: Priorities and Prospects for Development" (SecM-76/366), was
previously distributed to the Executive Directors on May 18, 1976.
Macroeconomic Performance!
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at
an annual rate of about 5-1/2%. The benefits of growth were also distributed
relatively unevenly, both with respect to regions and income classes. While
overall agricultural growth was reasonably satisfactory, repeated food deficits
were experienced. The growth of productive employment opportunities failed to
keep pace with the expansion of the labor force. Low levels of taxation
resulted in inadequate putblic expenditure for necessary infrastructure and
social services. Poor export performance combined with heavy import dependence
of domestic industry led to chronic weakness in the balance of payments.
4.        The growth of the Philippine economy accelerated to an average annual
rate of 6.5% in the 1970s. Fluctuations, however, have been significant. In
/1 This section of the report is substantially the same as that of the
President's Report fcr the National Extension Project distributed under
Sec M/R78-237, and approved by the Executive Directors on November 7,
1978.



the period 1970-72, when the effects of a balance of payments stabilization
program initiated in 1970 were being felt, the economy grew less rapidly.
Economic growth was unusually good in 1973 as sharply higher prices for
traditional export commodities stimulated demand. The export-led income boom
of 1973 was followed by an investment boom, which, together with favorable
sugar prices, temporarily sheltered the economy from the world recession,
and real GNP growth was maintained at 6% in 1974-75. The first half of the
1970s also saw favorable structural changes in the economy, the most important
of which were an increase in the level of public investment, financed in
large part by a greater tax effort, an acceleration of export growth, the
achievement of self-sufficiency in foodgrains, a shift of the domestic terms
of trade in favor of agriculture, and the slowing of the population growth
rate.
5.        The collapse of sugar prices in late 1975, following earlier declines
in the prices of other major export commodities, altered the external situation
dramatically. The terms of trade dropped by 23% in 1975 and, as a result,
the current account deficit rose to 6% of GNP. To maintain the momentum of
growth and investment, the Government adopted a policy of increasing capital
inflows in the near term to finance the expanded current account deficits
while accelerating export growth in the longer term. In 1976-78, the economy -
led by nontraditional exports, agriculture and construction - has continued
to grow at 6% per year. Unfortunately, much of the stimulus from an expansion
in export volume was offset by further deterioration in the terms of trade.
Total fixed capital formation increased only marginally due to sluggish
private investment activity and the conservative monetary-fiscal policy
adopted by the Government.
Development Strategy
6.        The Government's development objectives and policies, which were
recently set out in a Five-Year Development Plan for the period 1978-82, call
for acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The
development strategy focuses on an expansion of more productive employment
opportunities at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities,
greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, a strengthening of the balance
of payments, and increased development in rural areas. In addition, the Plan
includes strategies for development in each of the country's thirteen regions.
In general, the Plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by the
Government in recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the Bank's
basic economic report, although investment, manufacturing output and exports
are projected to grow more rapidly than visualized therein. It should be
feasible to accelerate the overall growth rate to 7% as the terms of trade
stabilize, but more rapid expansion of manufacturing is necessary to do so,
and efforts need to focus on improving the efficiency of investment.
Agriculture
7.        During the early 1970s agricultural production grew at an average
rate of 4-1/2% per year. In the grains subsector, the Government's policy
has been to end rice imports through irrigation development and the improvement



of supporting services. I)uring the past three years, the Philippines has been
self-sufficient in foodgrains and actually has exported over 100,000 tons of
rice. The overall performance of the agricultural sector was exceptionally
strong in 1976 as production increased by 8%. In 1977 and 1978, rice and
corn production continued to grow at a satisfactory rate; however, the major
traditional export crops, particularly sugar, experienced a slowing down of
production because of low world prices. Overall, the output of the sector
increaseu t a rate of 5% in 1977-78.
8.        Despite the recent successes in foodgrain production, which are
partly attributable to good weather, rice and corn yields remain well below
the potentials of modern farming technologies. This is largely due to land
tenure patterns, weak extension services and insufficient production credit.
The Government, however, gives high priority to agriculture and rural develop-
ment. It has undertaken a number of steps to increase the availability of
irrigation and supporting services, and has also expanded programs to improve
living conditions in rura:L areas, including rural electrification, health and
family planning, and ruraL roads.
9.        For historical reasons, land ownership in the Philippines is
inequitably distributed. The implementation of the land transfer program,
which started in October 1972, was expected to be completed within five years.
But, after an initial rapid start, progress slowed down considerably due to:
poor land surveys and records causing long delays in title documentation;
prolonged disputes over land valuation; inadequate resources within the
Ministry of Agrarian Reform; and opposition by the landlords. Progress has
improved, however, since mid-1977. As of March 1978, while only about 10% of
the tenants under the program had completed all land transfer formalities,
over 60% of them had received Certificates of Land Transfer, signifying the
first step in the transfer process and establishing their claim to the land.
Industry
10.       During the 1960s, Philippine industrialization was promoted by high
tariff protection and subsidized finance, and consequently industrial growth
was primarily in the area of import-substitution with a high capital intensity.
Performance was disappointing with respect to employment, exports, and the
overall rate of growth of output. In the early 1970s the Government floated
the exchange rate, which then depreciated significantly, and started correcting
tariff distortions by simultaneously reducing the number of items subject to
the highest protective rates and also limiting the granting of tariff exemptions.
Further efforts to reduce remaining biases in favor of import-substitution
and capital intensity will still be needed, however, to accelerate the rate
of industrial growth, as projected in the Five-Year Development Plan.
11.       Manufacturing industry has grown at a relatively slow average rate
of about 6% in the 1970s. Moreover, due to the slow increase in national
income and demand because of the decline in the terms of trade in the last
three years, manufacturing growth has also slowed, and investment has stagnated.
On the other hand, industries producing nontraditional exports have expanded
rapidly from a very low base, as their exports increased more than fivefold



- 4 -
in the five-year period 1973-77, in response to exchange rate adjustment and
special measures designed to alleviate existing restrictions on imports and
thus reduce the bias towards production for the domestic market. As noted
above, further efforts in this direction will be needed if industrial exports
are to continue to grow at a rapid rate. The construction industry which
expanded rapidly between 1972-1976, as a result of relatively construction-
intensive public investment and large tourism investments in the Manila area,
grew at a rate of only 6% during 1977-78 due to the slower pace of private
and public investment activity.
Employment, Incomes and Population
12.       Employment increased by about 4.6% annually during 1973-77, a
considerable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and was
able to keep pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. Particularly
noteworthy was the growth of employment in manufacturing, which essentially
stagnated during 1970-74, but grew by 7% annually during 1975/77, resulting
in part from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However,
because manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and
services continue to function as residual sources of employment and accounted
for most of the growth in total employment.
13.       Recent trends in income distribution are mixed but, on balance,
positive. Due to the improvement in agriculture's terms of trade, the growth
of agricultural production, the decline in urban real wages following the
devaluation in 1970, and the stagnation of industrial employment until 1975,
the ratio of the average rural income to the average urban income rose from
0.48 in 1971 to 0.57 in 1975. Real per capita consumption increased by about
2% annually in 1971-75. Hence, real incomes in rural areas, where most of
the poor live, have probably increased somewhat, while real urban incomes
have remained about the same. Household budget data, which are probably not
entirely accurate, indicate that the share of family incomes received by the
poorest 40% of families, who are primarily rural, increased from 12% in 1971
to 15% in 1975. The income share of the top 20% have remained about the
same, while that of the middle income families declined correspondingly.
Although the magnitude of these trends may be overstated by these data, the
general direction of the trends is consistent with other information.
14.       The population is estimated at 45.5 million in 1978.  The population
growth rate fell from 3.0% in the intercensal period 1960-70 to 2.8% in the
intercensal period 1970-75.  The Philippines has an active family planning
program registering approximately 650,000 new acceptors per year. Although
the number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program faces the
increasingly difficult problem of reaching rural areas, the estimated propor-
tion of married women of reproductive age practicing family planning increased
from 20% in 1974 to 27% in 1977. However, by East Asian standards, this
index should still be considered as relatively low.
Investment and Savings
15.       Due largely to the buoyant export performance in 1973 and the
subsequent increase in incomes, investment boomed in 1974-75. Private



investment rose from 14% of GNP in the early 1970s to 20% in 1975. Public
investment was raised from 2% to 4% of GNP with the growth in revenue r---
international trade taxes, improvements in tax administration, and improved
project implementation capacity. Subsequently, public investment has been
raised further to an estimated level of 6.3% of GNP in 1978. The private
investment rate, on the other hand, has fallen somewhat to an estimated i8%
of GNP, and its revival has been an important short-term problem. Furthermore,
the high incremental capital-output ratio, the relatively modest growth of
manufacturing output and employment, and the structural underutilization of
capacity in some industries suggest that the efficiency of investment also
needs to be improved.
16.      Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that: of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. In 1977-78,1 gross domestic savings reached a level of 26%
of GNP and financed about. 85% of total investment, with the balance coming
from foreign savings. In order to increase the efficiency of financial
markets in intermediating between savers and investors, the Government has
made significant improvements in financial policy. Organized banking institu-
tions have been strengthened. Interest rates were realigned in 1976 and,
again in 1977 to encourage a greater flow of financial savings into time and
savings deposits relative to short-term deposit substitutes, and to reduce
the spread between borrowing and lending rates. However, further reforms
are required to increase the availability of long-term domestic currency
resources and to alleviate the bias of the present interest rate structure
towards investments with a relatively high capital intensity and a low capital
efficiency. Special credit programs have been adopted to expand lending to
the credit-short agricultural sector and rural areas and to serve the needs
of medium- and small-sca:Le industries. However, a deterioration of loan
recovery rates has been experienced by all government financial institutions
and credit programs. The Government has already taken a number of steps
to improve collections; however, further efforts in this direction are
necessary to improve financial discipline and ensure an adequate flow of
credit to the productive sectors without burdening the public finances.
Government Expenditures and Revenues
17.       Public expenditures and revenues have historically claimed a much
smaller share of national resources in the Philippines than in many other
developing countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure
averaged only 12% of GNP, public investment was strikingly low at about 2%
of GNP, and tax revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were
dominated by general administration and social services, particularly
education. This situation had resulted from a variety of factors including
difficulties in raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the
public sector. Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to
correct the situation and has raised both the overall level of expenditures
and the shares going to economic services and public investment. By 1978
government expenditures had reached an estimated 16% of GNP, and public
investment, which has risen rapidly in the last three years, equaled about
6% of GNP.



- 6 -
18.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a comprehensive program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues
equitably and efficiently. In the short term, needed revenues have been raised
through revisions in indirect taxes. In the long term, structural changes are
to be made to raise the built-in elasticity of the tax system, to reduce distor-
tions in economic incentives and dependence on cyclically volatile taxes on
international trade, and to improve equity by increasing the proportion of
revenues coming from direct taxes. The Government has increased the ratio of
domestic taxes to GNP through new tax measures and vigorous efforts to
improve taxpayer compliance and collection performance, but much of the
success in mobilizing revenue from domestic sources has been offset by a
sharp decline in the yield of export taxes and import duties due to cyclical
fluctuations. Total tax revenues, which had been raised to 13.6% by 1975,
fell to 12.8% in 1977 and increased only slightly, to an estimated 13%, in
1978. Greater resource mobilization by government financial institutions and
government corporations, whose investment programs have grown rapidly, is
also needed.
External Trade and Capital Flows
19.       To meet the acute balance of payments problem in 1975, which
largely resulted from the decline in terms of trade, the Government drew down
its international reserves, obtained loans under various IMF facilities, and
expanded its borrowing program to finance necessary imports. For the longer
term, the Government adopted a strategy of accelerating export growth both to
hold the current account deficit about constant in absolute terms, while
letting it decline gradually relative to GNP, and to meet the debt service
payments on the higher level of external borrowing.
20.       In spite of a further deterioration in the terms of trade, the
current account deficit has behaved as anticipated over the last three years -
averaging $1.0 billion per year but declining from 6% of GNP in 1976 to an
estimated 4% in 1978. Export volume, although constrained in 1978 by the
depressed sugar market, increased substantially over the three-year period
as a whole. Import payments, after growing slowly in 1976 and 1977, accelerated
with the recovery of private investments in 1978. To finance the current
account deficits, net capital inflows were nearly doubled from the 1975 level
of $580 million to an average of $1.1 billion per year in 1976-78. Most of the
inflow came from medium and long-term loans. About two thirds of this was from
public loans, a reflection in part of increased disbursements from official
sources. Recently, the Government has also taken advantage of liquid conditions
in international capital markets to prepay some commercial debts and obtain new
loans with longer maturities and lower interest rates. As a result of increased
borrowing, the debt service ratio has risen from 16% in 1975 to 18% in 1977.
21.       To achieve a 7% growth rate in real GNP, as projected for the
initial years of the Plan period, import volume will have to grow at a
similar rate, and a net capital inflow of at least $1 billion per year will
be required. Assuming continued efforts to promote exports and sound debt



-7-
management, the overall level of external debt of the Philippines is expected
to remain within reasonable limits. The ratio of debt service payments to
exports of goods and nonfactor services is expected to average around 20%, of
which half would be public debt service, during the Plan period (1978-82) and
to decline thereafter.
22.        In order to ensure that the long-term capital transfer is commensu-
rate with the level of development expenditures required during 1978-82 and
that debt service obligations remain within reasonable limits, the Government
sought commitments of official assistance of $750-800 million in 1978 at the
last meeting of the Consultative Group for the Philippines, held in Tokyo in
December of 1977. This amount has been made available. However, since many
of the projects planned for financing from external sources have low foreign
exchange component, some local cost financing is necessary, in appropriate
cases, to meet the Philippines' external financing requirements.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
23.        As of October 31, 1978, the Philippines had received 56 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $1,725.4 million and
four IDA credits amounting to $60.2 million. At that date, IFC investments
totalled $88.4 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed
and outstanding is about ]L1% and its share in total debt service is about 5%.
These ratios are expected to increase to about 12% and 5%, respectively, by
the end of the present decade. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits,
Bank loans and IFC investments as of October 31, 1978, as well as notes on
the execution of ongoing lprojects.
24.        The Bank Group hias financed projects in virtually all sectors of
the economy with particular emphasis on agriculture and basic infrastructure
which have each accounted for about one-third of total Bank Group lending.
In agriculture, emphasis 'has been given to expanding the irrigation system to
increase food production and to credit programs to support foodgrain production
and processing and livestock, fisheries and tree farming production. Support
has also been provided for integrated rural development projects in low income
areas. In addition, the Bank Group has provided large amounts of assistance
in developing power and transportation to provide the basis for future growth
of the productive sectors. Substantial improvement in basic infrastructure
has been needed to compensate for many years of past neglect due to low
levels of public expenditure. In the industrial sector, the Bank's main
thrust has been on strengthening the capacity of public and private development
finance institutions with increasing attention given to meeting the needs of
small and medium industries. In the social sectors, the Bank Group has
provided support for education programs designed to improve the quality of
primary and secondary education and to meet trained manpower requirements in
/1 This section is substantially the same as that of the President's Report
for the National Extension Project, distributed under Sec. M/R78-237,
and approved by the Executive Directors on November 7, 1978.



- 8 -
agriculture and industry. In urban areas, assistance has been provided for
water supply projects and for programs to upgrade slum living conditions and
to develop low-cost sites and services. Support has also been provided to
the Philippines' population program through assistance for the construction of
multipurpose rural health units and for training of family planning staff.
25.       There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-
financed projects in the last five years compared with the experience in the
late 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and weak administration. Almost all ongoing projects are
now being implemented reasonably well and the supervision and project comple-
tion reports indicate that the economic benefits for most projects are likely
to be in line with appraisal estimates. However, in the last year there
were a number of cases where progress of projects suffered from procedural
problems which caused delays in the release of necessary budgetary resources.
Overall disbursements also appear to be somewhat behind the progress of
physical implementation which suggests that there may have been delays in
submission of withdrawal applications by line agencies. However, the Govern-
ment has taken steps to improve budgetary procedures both in the Ministry of
the Budget and in implementing agencies and to expedite submission of with-
drawal applications. The Government has also established a system to monitor
physical progress of projects as well as the rate of disbursements. The Bank
and the Government are continuing to discuss this question frequently to help
ensure that disbursement rates improve.
26.       As noted in Part I of this report, the Government's Five-Year
Development Plan highlights a strategy which focuses on the expansion of
production and employment in agriculture and industry, reduction in income
disparities, greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, and increased
development in rural areas. The Bank Group's future lending program has been
designed to assist the Government in achieving these objectives. Agricul-
tural and rural development will account for the largest part of future
lending with continued emphasis on food production and programs to increase
the productivity and incomes of small farmers. However, the program also
provides for several needed new initiatives, including the recently approved
loan which would support the strengthening of the national agricultural
extension service and a first loan for developing multiple cropping systems in
rainfed areas, where there is substantial rural poverty. Increased support
will also be provided for integrated rural development projects which will
support the Government's objectives of redressing regional imbalances in
income. Substantial assistance will also continue to be given to industry
with considerable attention given to expanding the development of labor-inten-
sive, small and medium industries outside of the Metropolitan Manila area.
The share of lending for social sector projects is expected to continue to
increase primarily as a result of greater emphasis on construction of urban
water supply and sewerage systems and further assistance for slum upgrading
and low-cost sites and services projects. The Bank Group will continue to
provide support for improving the quality of education and for expanding the
Government's population program in rural areas. While the Bank Group will
also provide support for transportation and power infrastructure needed to
support the Philippine development effort, the share of Bank Group lending for



this will decline somewhaLt in the years ahead primarily because alternative
sources of financing are available to finance a large part of the power
generation program.
27.       As n( 'ed in Part I, the Philippines has experienced a serious
deterioration in its international terms of trade in the last several ye'; rs
which has necessitated substantial foreign borrowing. While the overall
level of debt remains manageable, the Philippines will need to continue to
obtain some foreign assistance on concessional terms in the near term to
support its expanding development program. In view of this consideration,
-he per capita income of the country and the generally good management of the
s:onomy, a limited amount of IDA financing has been included in the Bank
Group's overall lending to the Philippines.
28.       This is the fifth loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
this fiscal year. Loans for smallholder credit, population, small- and medium-
scale industries and highway projects are expected to be ready for presentation
in the next several months.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Urban Background
29.       The urban sector in the Philippines is characterized by a highly
dominant capital, Metro Manila, together with a large number of lower-middle
size cities. The 1975 total population of the Philippines was estimated at
44.5 million, of whom 13.8 million live in areas classified as urban. During
the period 1960-1970, the urban population grew at approximately 4% p.a.
compared to about 3.0% p.a. for the country as a whole. By the turn of the
century, the population of the Philippines is expected to grow to 75 or 80 mil-
lion, almost double its present population and up to two-thirds of the added
population may have to be absorbed in urban areas even under optimistic
projections of rural employment.
30.       Most of the country's regional centers and smaller towns have been
unable to keep pace with expanding demands for extension of basic infrastruc-
ture, partly because of iinancial constraints at the local level and partly
because of other nationa:L priorities. As a result, municipal infrastructure
is generally inadequate to accommodate the basic needs of large segments of
the urban population. A particularly serious problem has been the growth of
squatter areas which have developed since World War II. A recent survey
indicated that almost 25%. of all urban households in the Philippines live in
squatter settlements or low-income slums without secure tenure, safe water
supply, drainage, human waste disposal or paved footpaths. Available studies
indicate that slum familiLes in urban areas are more malnourished and in poorer
health than their low-income counterparts in rural areas. The total rate of
infant mortality which is high in the Philippines - variously estimated at 68
to 80 per 1,000 births - is even higher in urban slum areas where a rate of
about 130 per 1,000 is common.



- 10 -
31.       The 1978 urban proverty income threshold estimated for the
Philippines is P 1,880 ($254) per person per year. Available data indicate
that approximately 40% of families in urban areas and 80% of families in
typical slum areas, nationally, have per capita incomes below this level.
Recent data on unemployment show a steady decline in rates of urban unemploy-
ment to an estimated level of only about 5% of the work force in 1975.
However, high levels of underemployment are evidenced by the high proportion
of household heads employed on a part-time basis and by low wages of P 10 a
day (US$1.40) for a typical urban laborer. The real income of unskilled
workers has in recent years remained constant.
Urban Issues
32.       Among the major urban sector issues facing the Philippines are:
(i) the need to implement an effective urban/regional development strategy;
(ii) the need to reduce the great disparities in access to basic sanitation
and public health infrastructure that characterize urban areas; and (iii)
the need to provide jobs to a rapidly growing labor force.
33.       Regional Development and Urbanization Strategy.  Any realistic
regional development plan should balance public investment in Metro Manila
against investment in other regions. In the past, the intermediate cities
and their municipal infrastructure needs have been neglected as a focus of
policy. More recently, an urban/regional spatial development strategy is
being developed, based partly on a UNDP-financed and Bank-executed Regional
Development Study and partly on the work of the National Economic and Develop-
ment Authority (NEDA), in conjunction with the newly established Ministry of
Human Settlements. This strategy is expected to lead to more effective plan-
ning on a regional basis. However, the development of effective budgeting and
investment programming for local and municipal governments still remains a
high priority need.
34.       Distribution of Services.  The need to improve the equity of the
distribution of basic infrastructure within urbanized centers is particularly
urgent. For decades, a legal impasse over property rights in squatter areas
has prevented both private investment and the extension of public services,
resulting in the perpetuation of unserviced and highly congested "shanty
towns" and the consequent public health problems. The Government's newly
established Slum Improvement and Resettlement (SIR) program, which provides
for acquisition of squatter land from absentee landowners (through expro-
priation, if required) and resale to residents, provides the legislative
basis and the national level support necessary to begin dealing with these
problems. A parallel program of low-cost sites and services in locations
close to employment has also been developed in an attempt to reduce the
shortage of low-income plots that leads to squatting.
35.       Urban Employment.  The Government has instituted a number of
programs in recent years to increase industrial employment through the
expansion of credit programs for small and medium industry through the
Development Bank of the Philippines, the Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
and the rural banking system. Technical assistance to assist small



- 11 -
enterprises is provided through the Medium and Small Industries Coordinated
Action Program (MASICAP) and Small Business Advisory Centers (SBAC) which
provide training to small-scale entrepreneurs. As part of the rapidly expand-
ing urban upgrading programs, the National Housing Authority is providing for
industrial areas designed to support employment near low-income communities.
Several experimental approaches to providing assistance to small-scale
business in such communities are also under way or planned.
Urban Institutions
36.       Since 1975, a number of important new institutions have been
established and are beginning to affect significantly the development of
national urbanization policies. In July 1975, the National Housing Authority
(NHA) was established to consolidate Government housing efforts, previously
dispersed among six separate national bodies. The Ministry of Human Settlements
(MHS) was established in July 1978 with responsibilties for national human
settlements planning, especially land use planning, environmental management,
regional monitoring and planning assistance, plan enforcement and regulation
and technology research. Coordination of planning in the Metro Manila area
has been enhanced recently with the establishment of the Metro Manila Commis-
sion (MMC). The Commission sets overall planning priorities in the metro
area, establishes budget guidelines and has responsibility for review and
approval of the budgets of the four cities and thirteen municipalities of the
MMC area.
Housing Sector Policies
37.       Housing sector policies have evolved rapidly over the last few
years. The development by NHA of the Slum Improvement and Resettlement (SIR)
program for the regional cities, along with a complementary slum improvement
program in Metro Manila, represents a dramatic and innovative new urban policy
direction for the Government. The SIR program has now been established in
the regional cities of Cebu, Davao, Cagayan de Oro and Baguio, and NHA is
evaluating other cities in terms of their priority for participation in the
program. If this programn is successful, it will have a major beneficial
impact over the next ten years on the lives of the poorest families in the
country's towns and cities.  NHA is also adopting the development of sites
and services as an approach to increasing housing at a relatively low cost.
Its new program plan is fairly well balanced, with approximately 45% of
effort devoted to slum improvement, 25% to sites and services, and 25%
to fully completed units of a conventional type.
The Project Cities
38.       The project would support development efforts in the four most
important metropolitan areas of the Philippines: Metro Manila, Cebu, Davao
and Cagayan de Oro.
39.       Metro Manila.  The greater Manila area, with a population of
5.5 million, exhibits some of the worst housing conditions in the country.
In 1972, approximately 50% of physically inadequate dwelling units in the
Philippines and 80% in all urban areas were in Metro Manila. About



- 12 -
1.8 million persons presently live in slum and squatter areas with very
low levels of environmental sanitation.
40.       The 1975 Urban Sector Survey of Metro Manila recommended a short-
term goal of removing or reducing the worst of the existing disparities, and
a longer-term goal of arresting or attenuating haphazard patterns of growth.
The large new community at Dagat-Dagatan will both address the shelter needs
of very low-income families and assist in the strategy of urban "infilling"
of large vacant areas within the urban core, recommended as the alternative
to more haphazard growth. Such increases in the supply of residential units
are particularly important for meeting the shelter needs of a population,
growing at a rate of about a quarter of a million per year. Other areas for
which large investments in Metro Manila are planned include slum improvement
(for which project preparatory work is well advanced), water supply, sewerage,
drainage, and traffic management. A major project jointly funded by the
Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Bank will double available water supply
capacity and extend distribution facilities by 1982. Flood control has also
been a chronic annual problem in Metro Manila.
41.       The metropolitan area of Cebu with a population of about one million
is growing rapidly because of mining and industrial potential. Its strategic
location and accessibility make it the trading center for the central part of
the Philippine archipelago. Estimates indicate that 25% of the total city
population live in slum and squatter areas. A survey of one such area
indicates that 91% had no water and 93% had no toilet of any type. Davao
City in Southern Mindanao has a population of about 525,000 and is basically
oriented towards agriculture. Some 115,000 persons, or 22% of the population,
live in high density slum and squatter settlements, located mainly near the
coastal creeks and rivers, close to work opportunities. Cagayan de Oro,
with a population of about 185,000, has significant industrial growth
potential, but about 26% of the total city population live in slum and
squatter areas. Programs to improve and expand water supply are ongoing in
all three cities.
The First Project
42.       The Manila Urban Development Project (Loan Nos. 1272-T and 1282-PH),
the first integrated urban project in the Philippines financed by the Bank,
provided assistance to the Government in improving: (a) the Tondo Foreshore
slum area; (b) the traffic and transport system; and (c) metropolitan tax
administration.  Progress under the project is now satisfactory.  The staffing
problems of the Tondo Project Office, which caused initial delays in production
of designs and resulted in slow disbursements, have been largely resolved. A
full report on the status of the project was submitted to the Executive
Directors under SecM77/871, dated December 13, 1977.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
43.       The proposed project would be the second Bank-financed integr,te'
urban project in the Philippines. It would address the problem of meeting
basic needs of the lowest income families in each project city. It is
designed to assist the Government in developing affordable solutions to the
problems of poverty, shelter and environmental sanitation in Metro Manila and
regional cities. Major institutional objectives are to help build tup NHA's
overall capacity and to assist the national and municipal governments in
initiating effective programs for low-income communities in regional cities.
Project Background
44.       The project was prepared by NHA and consultants, who worked with
the local governments and residents in the regional cities to develop the
slum improvement program. Negotiations were held in Washington from November
15-21, 1978; the leader of the negotiating team was His Excellency Eduardo Z.
Romualdez, Philippine Ambassador to the United States. The Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 2048-PH, dated December 1, 1978) is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. Annex III of this report provides supplementary
project data.
Project Description
45.       The proposed project would consist of:
(a) Sites and services for about 8,600 families in Dagat-Dagatan
(Metro Manila);
(b) Sites and services for about 3,800 families and slum improvement
for about 7,600 families in the regional cities of Cebu, Davao,
and Cagayan de Oro;
(c)  Industrial/commercial development in the three regional cities;
(d) Small business development:
(e) Flood control equipment for Metro Manila; and
(f) Technical assistance and training.
46.       Metro Manila Sites and Services and Industrial/Commercial Development.
The sites and services component in the Dagat-Dagatan area of Metro Manila
would provide 8,600 serviced residential plots on 90 ha plus services for
40 ha of land zoned for commercial and industrial purposes. This is part of a
larger development, which will eventually cover 377 ha, and involve a total of
about 20,000 residential plots and 75 ha of industrial/commercial land.
Residential lot sizes provided under the project will range from 48 sq m to



- 14 -
150 sq m with an average of 70 sq m to attract a mix of income groups and to
respond to the general demand for housing especially at low-income levels.
Each lot will be provided with individual water supply and sewerage connections.
On-lot development will be available, ranging from single service connections
to a shell house. Loans for the purchase of materials for house completion
would be provided. Schools, health centers, and community facilities will
also be constructed in the project area.
47.       Regional Cities SIR Program.  The project would support the first
three years of a long-term program of improving slums in the regional
cities. The Slum Improvement and Resettlement (SIR) Program comprises an
interrelated mix of components including slum upgrading, development of new
sites and services units, and servicing of land for commercial/industrial
uses. The approach emphasizes self-help, affordable standards, secure
tenure, and community participation. The component in each city generally
involves subdivision of the area into residential lots, provision of safe
water supply, human waste disposal facilities, surface water drainage, paved
footpaths and streets, schools, clinics, and material loans for house improve-
ment. Upgraded sites in the regional cities will generally be provided with
public water taps and septic tanks or pit privies except where physical
conditions require an alternative solution. Sites and services areas will
have individual lot connections.
48.       In Cebu, improvements would be provided to 26.6 ha of existing
squatter areas and 4 ha of vacant land developed for residential purposes.
There are about 27,000 households, or 165,000 persons, living in areas which
need upgrading in Cebu. During the first three years of the program financed
by the project, approximately 22,000 persons, or about 13% of the total slum
and squatter population, would receive services.
49.       In Davao, improvements would be provided to 19.6 ha of existing
squatter areas, 37 ha of vacant land developed for residential purposes, and
11 ha of land for industrial/commercial purposes. There are an estimated
18,000 households, or 115,000 persons, living in areas which need upgrading.
During the first three years of the program financed by the project, approxi-
mately 15,500 persons, or about 13% of the total slum and squatter population,
would receive services. New sites would be provided for an additional
16,000 people.
50.       In Cagayan de Oro, improvements would be provided to approximately
27.5 ha of existing squatter areas, 14 ha of vacant land developed for sites
and services and 5 ha of land for commercial/industrial purposes. The
extent and conditions of slum areas in Cagayan de Oro are not so severe as
in Davao and Cebu. Nevertheless, the city is growing quickly and action at
this stage will enable the authorities to prevent rapid deterioration.
There are about 5,600 households or 34,200 persons in areas which need
upgrading. Through the project, approximately 11,000 persons, or 32% of the
total slum and squatter population, would receive services. New sites would
be provided for an additional 7,000 people.
51.       Employment Promotion.  Industrial/commercial areas related to
project sites will be developed and serviced as part of the project.



- 15 -
Complementing these developments will be loan funds for small cottage
industries and for extension programs. The project also includes finance
for an investigation of the nature and problems of these very small enter-
prises, and of the appropriate means and institutional arrangements for
assisting them.
52.       Community Facilities.  Educational and health facilities will be
provided in the project areas to bring the level of facilities up to the
level of service existing elsewhere in the city. Multipurpose facilities for
community meetings will be constructed which could also be used for day-care
programs, nutrition sessions, workshops, and training programs.
53.       Flood Control Equipment.  Finance for equipment is included in the
project to assist the Bureau of Public Works (BPW) in improving flood
control through its Estero Improvement Program.  The ten-year program for
improving drainage in Metro Manila, established in 1972, has suffered
extensive delays, in part, due to lack of suitable equipment. Improved
drainage will also reduce the danger of flooding to approximately 8,000
families, mostly lower income, who currently live in flood prone areas.
54.       Technical Assistance and Training.  Technical assistance
is designed to strengthen the institutional capability of national agencies
and local governments to provide improved access to basic services. The
proposed loan would finance advisory services in technical areas, finance
and staff training, as we1l as assistance to the Ministry of Human Settlements
in policy planning and program review. Funds would also support field trips
and fellowships for staff of the NHA and MMC. Assistance would be provided
for monitoring and evaluating the project and for future feasibility studies.
At the municipal level, technical assistance would be provided through NRA
to the local SIR units in design and finance. In addition, support will be
made available to NEDA to assist Cebu, Davao and Cagayan de Oro to improve
metropolitan level program planning, conduct a national review of small
business loan programs, and undertake feasibility studies for regional
investment projects. In Metro Manila, technical assistance will be employed
to update the Metro Manila flood control master plan. To the maximum extent
possible, the use of local consultants will be encouraged. Approximately
475 man-months of foreign technical assistance and 534 man-months of local
technical assistance is included at an average man-month cost of $8,100 and
$3,500, respectively.
Project Implementation
55.       The National Housing Authority will implement the Dagat-Dagatan
component. NHA has been actively filling staff positions for the Dagat-Dagatan
Project Office, and the following positions have been filled: senior design
engineer, site design engineer, and three field engineers. The construction
division of the Dagat-Dagatan Project Office is headed by a qualified consul-
tant engineer with many years experience of managing large contracts, and a
construction management contract has been signed. Confirmation was given
during negotiations that the construction management contract would be main-
tained and that adequate budgetary provision will be made for full staffing of



- 16 -
the Dagat Dagatan project office (Sections 3.02 (a) and 3.04 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
56.       NHA is the national agency responsible for policy formulation and
coordination of execution and financing of the national slum improvement
program. In this role, it will supervise the local governments of Cebu,
Cagayan de Oro and Davao which will execute the regional cities' components.
Local governments will be responsible for planning, detailed design and
contract administration of this component.
57.       A special unit was established in each local government, in June
1977, to design and implement the SIR program with consultant support
provided through NRA and financed under the Manila Urban Development Project.
These units are adequately staffed for the present level of work. Assurances
were given during negotiations that project implementation offices in the
regional cities will be maintained and adequately staffed and that the Govern-
ment will submit to the Bank semi-annual reports on the staffing arrangements
in each of the regional cities (Sections 3.03 (iii) and 3.04 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Assurances were also given that a project manager and a works
engineer for each site would be appointed prior to inviting bids for civil
works for that site (Section 3.03 (ii) of the draft Loan Agreement). To help
ensure that a low cost approach is maintained both in the regional cities and
Dagat-Dagatan, the Government will inform the Bank of any significant proposals
for expenditures within project areas other than project expenditures for a
period of four years (Section 3.12 (ii) of the draft Loan Agreement). For
implementation of housing and business loan programs, the NHA and local SIR
units have drafted interagency agreements with MASICAP, SBAC and local financial
intermediaries. The Government would provide adequate staff and financial
resources to support these programs (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
58.       A number of important measures are being taken to improve the
organizational response of NHA as its program matures. NRA has reorganized,
with effect from November 1978, its key operational departments along lines
more oriented towards client needs by establishing departments in charge of
local government projects, private sector projects, and NHA construction
management.
59.       These are only initial steps.  Low government salary scales affect
the ability of new agencies such as the NHA to obtain experienced personnel.
To remedy this situation, NRA will establish a staff training program to
improve job-related skills of new recruits (Section 3.14(iii) of the draft Loan
Agreement). While the training program would provide long-term relief, given
the size of NHA's programs and the fact that rapid acceleration of a number of
these programs is under way, adequate design, control and supervision will
require heavy reliance on consultant support. Technical assistance provided in
the project is designed both to assist operational needs and to establish
improved operational capacity within NRA. In addition, a new position will be
created within NHA and filled by January 31, 1979, to be responsible for
external financial relations, the development of new sources of finance and
the supervision of NHA's financial control system (Section 3.03 (i) of the
draft Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
60.       Overall program analysis is conducted through the preparation of
five- and ten-year program plans. In the past, these plans have tended to be
unrealistic because they did not adequately reflect likely financial or
staffing constraints. A revised planning manual, recently developed with
consultant assistance, should lead to more realistic plans that would include
financial requirements and sources as well as the manpower requirements of
projects. These plans would facilitate the programming of NHA's activities
on a more operational basis and will provide the basis for planning long-term
financing from bond issues and earmarking appropriations from national agencies.
A three-year program of NRA's manpower and financial resource requirements was
recently approved by its Board; NRA has agreed to update the plan each quarter
and to inform the Bank prior to the final approval of any material modification
of the program (Section 3.12 (i) of the draft Loan Agreement).
61.       At the time NHA was established, accounts consolidating the financial
position of the preceding agencies were not available. With consultant
assistance, consolidated accounts have now been prepared. Assurances were
given during negotiations that financial and technical reports would be made of
the project by NHA's consultants on a quarterly basis. In addition,
the Commission on Audit will furnish to the Bank annually an audit of the
project accounts (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
62.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $69.9 million, of
which $32 million would be foreign exchange. The cost estimates include
provision for physical contingencies of 10% for Dagat-Dagatan and 15% for
components in the regional cities. Price contingencies are based on an
assumption of cost increases of 7-1/2% p.a. for local costs and 6-8% p.a.
for foreign exchange items.
63.       The proposed Bank loan of $32 million would finance the foreign
exchange costs. The loan would be made to the Government which would relend
$26.24 million to NHA on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan.
About $4.57 million would be allocated to MPWTC for procurement of flood
control equipment and assoc:iated training and infrastructure, including sea
defense works, and about $1.19 million would be allocated to NEDA, MMC and MHS
for technical assistance and training. NRA and other agencies involved will be
tax exempt on project related expenditures. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk on the proposed Bank loan. NRA would relend to the
regional cities the proceeds of the loan to be utilized for implementing the
SIR program. The repayment: terms would be 25 years, including 3 years of
grace, with interest presently estimated at 11% and corresponding to NRA's
average borrowing costs together with a spread sufficient to cover allocable
administrative costs. For the small business loan programs, NRA would relend
to local financial institutions at 10% p.a., to provide an adequate spread to
cover administrative costs and bad debts for of up to 7 years, including an
appropriate grace period. Loans to private beneficiaries for housing materials
would have an interest rate of 12% and a repayment term of up to 15 years.
Loans to small businesses would have an interest rate not exceeding 16% p.a.
together with a service charge of 2%, for up to 15 years including an appro-
priate grace period. The iLnterest rates charged are generally consistent



- 18 -
with the interest rate policies of the Government for broadly similar types
of lending and would be significantly positive as the inflation rate in the
Philippines for the past three years has been about 7% per annum and is
expected to remain at that level for the next three-year period.
64.       Of the balance of project financing, amounting to $37.9 million,
NHA would finance $5.4 million from bond issues and $18.8 million from
project revenues receivable during the implementation period. The Government
would prov4de $13.7 million through budget appropriations.
Procurement
65.        Civil works contracts of more than $1 million each, estimated to
amount to a total of $20 million, would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Because of the need to undertake the work in small areas on a block-by-block
basis with participation of the residents of the project communities, civil
works contracts of less than $1 million each, for a total of about $22
million, would not be suitable for international competitive bidding. These
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with the Borrower's procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank.
For goods and equipment, except materials for house improvement, all contracts
over $100,000, amounting to about $2.5 million equivalent, would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines. For purposes of bid comparison, local manufacturers would
receive a preference of 15%, or the level of customs duties, whichever is
lower. Contracts below $100,000, totaling about $1 million, and procurement
of materials for house improvement would be tendered on the basis of compe-
titive bidding locally advertised within the city concerned.
Disbursements
66.       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 43% for civil works
upon submission of normal documentation. Disbursements for equipment and
materials would be at the rate of 100% of the c.i.f. cost of direct imports,
100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods and 65% of the
total cost of other imported but locally procured equipment and materials.
The loan would be disbursed for 100% of the total expenditures for technical
assistance and training and for 50% of the loans for small business and housing
materials. A maximum amount of $700,000 is recommended for retroactive finan-
cing from February 1, 1978, for design and program advisory support and tech-
nical assistance to Cebu in developing a longer-term investment program, and
for civil works (para. 4 of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery
67.       The principle adopted by the Government for cost recovery is that
costs normally borne by private developers in a private housing scheme would
be recovered through the lease and sale of developed land in the project
area. NHA would recover through lease and sale payments the full cost of
such facilities over a 25-year period, including interest at not less than
12% per annum (Section 4.05(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). On this basis,
about 75% of project capital costs (in nominal terms) would be recovered



- 19 -
directly from the beneficiaries and the remaining 25% of project capital
costs (for off-site works, community facilities, and water and electric
utilities) would be borne by the appropriate agency and recovered through
fiscal revenues and consumer tariffs, and would not be included in the
lease/purchase charges. On this basis, which is affordable both to
government and to beneficiaries, the project is replicable on a nationwide
scale.
68.       Residential beneficiaries will be offered a 25-year transferable
lease which would amortize service costs at an interest rate of 12% per
annum and which would contain an option to purchase the freehold title, which
may be exercised within a period not exceeding five years. For residential
beneficiaries who purchase title, up to 90% mortgage financing would be
available at 12% for 25 years. In Dagat-Dagatan, the monthly lease payment
for the smallest lot (48 sq m), would be about P 50 ($6.75) affordable
by families at about the tenth percentile of the Metro Manila income curve
who would earn about P 270 ($36) per month. The lot could be purchased for
a monthly payment of about P 75, which, in addition to servicing costs,
would recover the cost of land and reclamation. In Dagat-Dagatan over 70%
of the lots would have a monthly lease payment affordable by families below
the urban poverty threshold. In the regional cities, the average lease
payment for an upgraded lot ranges between P 12 and P 34, reflecting different
income and service levels in different cities. These would be affordable at
about the tenth percentile of income. A sites and service unit in the
regional cities would require a monthly payment of between P 31 and P 61 and
be affordable by families between the tenth and twenty-fifth percentile.
Subletting is a common practice and would lead to even lower average family
payments. Almost all lots in the regional cities would be affordable by
families below the urban poverty threshold. NHA will establish a beneficiary
selection procedure that is satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.13 of the
draft Loan Agreement) and will prepare, in consultation with the Bank,
standard agreements setting out the terms and conditions under which lots
may be leased or sold (Section 4.05(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
69.       The project would have a substantial impact on the Government's
approach to the problem cf providing adequate urban shelter and infrastructure,
and should lead to important strengthening of the institutional capacities of
both NHA and local governments. Significant equalization of access to basic
public infrastructure in key urban areas would be accomplished through exten-
sion of facilities to low,-income slum and squatter communities and regulari-
zation of title and tenure. This would be achieved on a substantially
self-liquidating basis.
70.       The Metro Manila component of the project, representing 58% of
project costs, would provide a major increase in the housing stock in a site
close to the urban core area on currently unused land. Commercial and
industrial development in the Dagat-Dagatan Project area would establish the
site as a major employment center for an estimated 22,000 persons close to



- 20 -
residential locations. The economic benefits of the Dagat-Dagatan component
are based on estimates of the imputed market value of the serviced residential
plots and the market value of the industrial/commercial land provided. The
economic costs include all net of tax costs of infrastructure and certain
off-site drainage works. Land was valued at its opportunity cost. On this
basis, the economic rate of return for the Dagat-Dagatan residential component
is estimated to be 25% and for the commercial/industrial development, 58%.
These high rates of return reflect scarcity values brought about by histori-
cally low levels of public investment in residential infrastructure and
urban services generally.
71.       The Slum Improvement and Resettlement (SIR) component in the
regional cities about 24% of total project costs represents a major shift in
Government emphasis from costly and subsidized programs of resettlement to
improvement in situ with recovery of servicing costs. This component would
directly benefit about 74,000 persons at a cost of about $505 per family,
compared with costs estimated at about $1,500 per family under other resettle-
ment programs. The measurement of economic benefits of slum improvement is
based on increases in property values brought about by the provision of
infrastructure and other services; the economic rate of return for this
component is estimated at about 37%. The economic rate of return for sites
and services developments in regional cities is estimated at 13%.  The
servicing of commercial/industrial development in the regional cities would
provide additional revenue to the SIR program that would be used to reduce
residential charges and would provide job locations near low-income residential
areas. The economic rate of return of the industrial/commercial component
is estimated at 32%.
72.       The small business loan component representing 3% of proejct
costs, which would operate in all project cities, would support approximately
2,500 jobs at an estimated average cost per job of about $1,100 compared to
the poverty threshold per job estimated at US$3,900. The use of private
commercial banks as intermediaries and the provision of technical field
agents for loan preparation, technical support and follow-up is designed to
lead to a system that would ultimately be attractive on a wider scale to
non-government banks.
73.       The weighted average economic rate of return for those components
of the project for which benefits could be quantified, and which account for
85% of the project cost, is estimated to be about 34%.
74.       Project components are designed to maximize their impact on the
basic needs of the urban poverty group. In Dagat-Dagatan over 70% (about
6,000) of the lots would be targeted for families below the poverty level. In
the regional cities, all new or improved lots would be affordable by families
below the poverty threshold. In upgrading areas, 85% of families whose homes
are improved, and in sites and services areas 90% of families who receive new
lots, are estimated to be in the urban poverty group. Of the total cost, some
72% is directly attributable to the urban poverty group.
Project Risks
75.       Because the project supports new programs, it necessarily entails
a number of risks. The SIR program in the regional cities will be implemented



- 21 -
by units formed recently for this purpose. Standard operating procedures will
have to be established by these offices and by NHA, and additional staff will
have to be hired as implementation proceeds. The use of advisory consultan.L~.
and the very good progress made to date by NHA and the staff of the regional
cities in establishing the program suggest that implementation risks are
acceptable, given the expected benefits of the project and the potential for
expanding the role of the SIR program to benefit a large percentage of the
urban poor.
76.       Other risks involve staffing and beneficiary repayments.  The
expansion of NHA programs has strained NHA's staff resources. The staffing
requirements to implement the project have been carefully reviewed, and it
is believed that steps taken, including the use of consultants and the estab-
lishment of a training office, should help to improve NHA's overall implemen-
tation capacity. The financial viability of these programs will depend in
part on efficient collection procedures. NRA and local governments must be
prepared to enforce contract agreements with beneficiaries in cases of default.
It is believed that the proposed land tenure arrangements, involving an option
to purchase freehold title, will provide strong incentives for the beneficiaries
to meet scheduled payments.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
78.       Special conditions of this loan are referred to in Section III of
Annex III. The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower
and NHA that is satisfactory to the Bank is an additional condition of effec-
tiveness of the proposed loan (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
80.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
December 7, 1978
Washington, D.C.



- 2 2 -                                                 ANNEX I
PaRe I of 4 pages
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INLJICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
PIIILIPPINES                                               /d
l.AND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             300.0                                                      SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       85.6                                  MDST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb         REGION Lc   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   140.0        230.0      450.0            616.0       432.3        867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       147.0       301.0      326.0            522.0       251.7         578.3
POPVLATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         27.4         36.9       44.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 25.3           27.6      29.8              30.1        24.2         46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         91.0        123.0     148.0             156.8        42.7         50.8
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    360.0         472.0      520.0             794.8        95.0         93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           45.7         45.6      42.9              40.8        44.9         42.9
15-64 YRS.                           51.6         51.6      54.2             55.4        52.8          53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.7          2.8       2.9               3.2         3.0          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3.0          3.0       2.8               2.3         2.7          2.5
URBAN                                4.0          4.0       3.9               5.1         8.8          4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       45.1         44.2      43.8              34.6        42.2         37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       17.9         13.2       10.5              8.7        12.4         10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.5 /f       3.3        3.1              2.6         3.2          2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        191.7     750.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            2.0      25.0              22.1        14.2         20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)               99.1        100.0     110.8             106.8       104.3        107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     83.0        86.0       87.0             108.7       99.5         105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            44.0         45.0      50.0              57.7        56.8         63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         19.0 L&      22.0      19.2              17.0        17.5         21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        9.0          6.6        7.5              4.0         7.5          8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    49.4           55.6       58.5             59.0        53.3         57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             84.6         81.0       72.0             44.0        82.5         53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         36.0      50.0              21.9        31.1         56.8
LRBAN                                 ..         67.0      82.0              58.3        68.5         79.0
RURAL                                 ..         20.0       31.0              9.8        18.2         31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         57.0       56.0             28.6        37.5         30.9
URBAN                                 ..         90.0       76.0             66.6        69.5         45.4
RURAL                                 ..         40.0       44.0             14.8        25.4         16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                ..           ..    3130.0            4103.1      9359.2       2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..       3840.0    2180.0            1520.2      2762.5       1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1180.0        850.0     540.0             657.1       786.5        493.9
L'RAN                                 ..           ..         ..            145.5       278.4        229.6
RUB AL                                ..           ..         ..           1011.8      1358.4      2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..         ..             19.0        19.2         22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.8          5.9         ..              5.2          ..          5.2
URBAN                                 ..          6.2         ..              5.2          ..          5.D
RURAL                                 ..          5.8         ..              5.4          ..          5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ,,          2.3         ..               ..          ..          2.0
URBAN                                 ..          2.1         ..               ..         2.3          1.5
RURAL                                 ..          2.4         ..               ..          ..          2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DrWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               17.0         23.0       31.0             39.1        28.3         64.1
URBAN                                 ..         60.4         ..               ..          ..         67.8
RURAL                                 .,          7.0       10.0               ..        10.3         34.1



- 23-                                             ANNEX I
Page 2  of  4  pages
PRILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
PHILIPPINES                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) _/
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUTP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 95.0       114.0      105.0            95.6        75.8        99.8
FEMALE               93.0        113.0     103.0             93.7       67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 26.0        50.0      56.0             43.3        17.7        33.8
FEMALE               25.0         50.0      57.0             38.6        12.9        29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY' 14.0           ..         ..            11.3         7.4        12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            36.0        29.0       29.0            30.0        34.3        34.9
SECONDARY                          27.0        33.0      31.0             25.4        23.5        22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        71.9        82.6       87.0            84.0        63.7        71.8
CONSUM4PTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         8.0        8.0             9.3         7.2        12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         22.0        72.0         ,,            97.6        71.1       104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4        10.0       17.0            21.8        14.1        28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  17.0        14.0       18.0            25.9        16.3        45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6           ..        7.6             4.6         1.6         4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10100.0      12400.0   15400.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   34.4        33.1       32.7            33.2        28.0        25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              61.0        55.0      52.6             48.4        54.1        46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 15.2        15.8         ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                39.8        36.6       35.3            38.9        37.8        33.8
MALE                                 52.1        48.6       47.1            48.6        50.3        48.1
FEMALE                               27.4        24.4       23.3            28.4        20.9        17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3          1.5       1.3              1.2        1.3          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   28.8            ..        ..            17.3        19.5        23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  56.2         54.0       53.3            45.6        48.9        52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.2          3.6        5.5             6.5         5.9         4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   11.9         11.7       14.7            17.3        15.7        13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      180.0           140.8       155.9       191.9
RURAL                                ..          ..      155.0           112.8        97.9       193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE 2OVERTY INCOME
LEVEL kUS$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..               ..      143.7       319.8
RURAL                                ..           ..      87.0            76.8        87.3       197.7
EST IMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      26.0            27.7        22.9        19.8
RURAL                                ..           .,      40.0            40.4        36.7        35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availatbility of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recenat Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);   /e  Intermediate Middle income
($55i-1135 per capita, 1976);  /f  1950-55;  /g  Av. 1960-62.
September 1978



- 24 -                               ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PROD[JCT IN 1977                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ million      %            1966-71            1971-76              1977
GNP at Market Prices             20,596       100.0            5.1                6.6                 6.3
Gross Domestic Investment         6,220        30.2            5.9               12.5                 2.7
Cross National Saving             5,393        26.2            2.4               10.8                12.4
Current Account Balance            -827        -4.0
Exports of Goods, NFS             4,021        19.5           -0.5                5.6               20.9
Imports of Goods, NFS             4,788        23.3           4.1                 6.5                3.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added                  Labor Force                   V. A. per worker
US$ million            %        Million                        -US$              %
Agriculture           5,826             28.1          7.7         48.1               757           58.4
Industry             7,195              34.7         2.2          13.8            3,270           252.2
Services              7,724             37.2          5.4         33.7             1,430          110.3
Unemployed              .                 .           0.7          4.4
Total/Average    20,745              100.0        16.0         100.0            1,297           100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                        Central Government
(P billion)          % of GDP              (P billion)            % of GDP
1977          1977          1971           1977          1977          1971
Current Receipts          22.7          14.8           11.3          20.0          13.1            9.2
Current Expenditure       19.3           12.6          10.1          16.9          11.0            7.6
Current Surplus            3.4           2.2            1.2           3.1           2.0            1.6
Capital Expenditures       5.4            3.5           1.6           5.1           3.3            1.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1972      1973       1974       1975       1976        1977
(P billion outstanding end period)
Money Supply                           6.5        7.3        9.0       10.3       12.1        14.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector           3.9        2.4        2.0        5.8        8.9        11.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector         12.6       16.2       24.2       28.5       33.6        38.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money as 7 of GDP                     11.5       10.1        9.0        8.9       9.2         9.7
General Price Index (1972 = 100)  100.0         117.8      155.3      167.6     180.1       196.2
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                    6.8       17.8       31.8        7.9       7.5         8.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector          -2.1      -38.5     -16.7      190.0       53.4       123.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector         21.7       28.6      49.4       17.8       17.9        13.1
/a  ,,L  conversions to dollars in this table nre .It the average exchange rate prevailing
during  the period covereo.
n(ot Applicjable



- 25 -                            ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
1975    1976    1977                                      US$ million    %
(US$ million)
Coconut Products                     591       22.1
Exports of Goods, NFS          3,076   3,330   4,021   Sugar Products                          536       20.0
rts of Goods, NFS          4,116   4,383   4,788   Forest Products                         288       10.8
rK<ilrce Gap (deficit   -)  -1,040  -1,053    -767   Mineral Products                          438       16.4
Fruits & Other Agric. Products    196           7.4
Interest Payments (net)          -53    -185    -320   Other Manufacturers                     622       23.3
Other Factor Payments (net)   -149    -138                  Total                            2,673      100.0
Net Transfers                     318     269      260
balance on Current Account    -924  -1,107    -827   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1977 /c
US$ million
Direct Foreign Investment         125     144      216
Net MLT Borrowing                                         Public Debt, including Guaranteed          3,656
Disbursements                  677   1,407   1,229   Nonguaranteed Private Debt                   2,907
Amortization                   318      368      544   Total Outstanding and Disbursed            6,563
Subtotal                     359   1,039       685
Other Capital (net) /a            -80    -236      +90   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1977 /d
Increase in Reserves (+)        -521    -160       164
Public Debt, including Guaranteed            7.8
Gross Reserves                                            Nonguaranteed Private Debt                   9.8
(end year) /b                2,080   2,206   2,263   Total Outstanding and Disbursed               17.6
Net Reserves
(end year) /b                  265      105      269
Petroleum Imports                 710     801      859
IBRD/IDA LENDING, September 30, 1978 (US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                  IBRD    IDA
Annual Averages        End Period   Outstanding and Disbursed              499.3   29.4
1976     1977    1978/e  Dec. 1977    Undisbursed                            1,105.0   30.8
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed   1,604.3   60.2
US$1.00 =  P   7.446    7.407    7.375    7.371
P 1.00  =  US$ 0.134    0.135    0.136    0.136
/a  Includes SDRs, short-term private loans, Central Bank liabilities, use of IMF credit, and errors
and omissions.
/b  Reserves of the Central Bank and commercial banking system.
Ic  Excludes short-term debt and IMF standby credit and is on a disbursement basis.
/d  Ratio of Debt-Service to Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.
/e  Eight months only.



- 26 -                     ANNEX II
Page I of 13 pages
THE STATUS OF BANE GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of October 31, 1978
Loan or
Credit                                                             Amounts (5 million)
NSober      Year        Borrower          Purpose              Bank    EDA   UCdisbursed
Sixteen loans and two credits fully disbursed                 252.4    19.5
720-PH     1971                          Rice Processing
"1              and Storage       14.3                 2.3
809-PH     1972    National Power
Corporation       Power                22.0                3.9
349-PH     1973    Republic of the
Philippines       Rd-oation II                  12.7       2.7
891-PH     1973            "             Fisheries            11.6                0.7
939-PH     1973            "             Ports                 6.1                1.3
950-PH     1973            "             Second Highways   68.0                   6.9
984-PH     1974                          Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation         9.5                 4.7
998-PH     1974            "             DFC-DBP I            50.0                4.6
1034-PH     1974     Notional Power
Corporation       Power                61.0                8.3
1035-PH     1974     Republic of the
Philippines       Population           25.0               16.4
1048-PH     1974            "             Shipping            20.0                13.8
1052-PH     1974     Philippine
National Bank   DFC                    30.0               15.1
1080-PH     1975     Republic of the   Tarlac
Philippines         Irrigation         17.0                9.2
1102-PH     1975                          Rural
Development       25.0                19.4
1120-PH     1975                          Small and Mediu-
Industries        30.0                 6.8
1154-PH     1976                          Magot
Irrigation        42.0               27.4
1190-PH     1976                          DFC-DBP II           75.0               43.7
1224-T-PH  1976             "             Education III        25.0               19.3
1225-PH     1976            "             Livestock II         20.5               10.6
1227-PH     1976            "             Chico Irrigation   50.0                 46.9
1272-T-PH  1976                           Manila Urban         10.0                7.8
1282-PH     1976            "             Manila Urban        22.0                17.2
1269-PH     1976                          Second Grami
Processing        11.5                11.5
1270-PH     1976            "             Seccod Fisheries  12.0                   9.0
1353-PH     1977            "             Third Highways    95.0                  87.9
1367-PH     1977            "             Jalaur Irrigation 15.0                  11.9
1374-PH     1977                          Fourth Education  25.0                  22.2
1399-PH     1977     Central Bank of   Fourth Rural
the Philippines    Credit              36.5               29.0
1414-PH     1977    Republic of the   National Irriga-
Philippines         tion Systems
Improvement       50.0               42.9
1415-PH     1977                          Provincial Cities
Water Supply      23.0                21.4
1421-PH     1977                          Second Rural
Deveiopment-
Land Settlement 15.0                  14.8
1460-PH     1977     National Power
Corporation       Seventh Power        58.0               57.7
1506-PH     1978    Republic of the    Smallholder Tree
Philippines         Farming             8.0                8.0
1514-PH     1978    Philippine
National bank   DFC (PDCP)             30.0               30.0
1526-PH     1978    Republic of the    Second Nationol
Philippines         Irrigation
Systems
Inprovement       65.0               65.0
790-PH     1978    Republic of the    Rural Infra-
Philippines         structure                   28.0      28.0
S.8-PH     1978     Republic of the
Philippines       Education             2.0                2.0
1547-PH     1978     Republic of the    Rural Electri-
Philippines         fication           60.0               60.0
1555-PH     1978    Philippine
National Bank   DFC-PISO               15.0               15.0
1567-PH     1978    Republic of the
Philippines       MAGAT II            150.0              150.0
1572-PH     1978    Republic of the   Industrial
Philippines         Investment III  80.0                  80.0
1615-PH     1978     Republic of the   Manila Water
Philippines         Water Supply-Il 88.0                  88.0
Total                                             17_25.4    60.2   1,123.4
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                          121.2         -
Total now outstanding                             1,604.2    60.2
Am,ount sold                        22.3
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                   13.1               9.2        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate
adjustments)                                    ,595.0    60.2
Total undisbursed                                 1,092.7    30.7  1,123.4
N Not yet effective.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 13 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of October 31, 1978
Fiscal                                                      Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                          Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                                15.0     4.4      19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                        8.0       -       8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                   -     4.0       4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Company                           4.5       -       4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                   0.8     0.4       1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corporation of the
Philippines                                   -     2.2       2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation               6.2     2.1       8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                                15.0       -      15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                 1.9     0.3       2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5       -       1.5
1974         Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.  1.5         0.5       2.0
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation               1.2       -       1.2
1975         Philippine Po:Lyamide Industrial
Corporation                                 7.0       -       7.0
1976         Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                     2.6     0.2       2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                     2.3     1.2       3.5
1977         Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                     3.5      -        3.5
1978         Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.  2.1          -        2.1
Total gross commitments                      73.1    15.3      88.4
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or cancelled                        28.1    12.0      40.1
Total commitments now held by IFC            45.0      3.3     48.3
Undisbursed                                   5.1        -      5.1



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project is providing long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
and, as explained in the President's Memorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice milling facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to: (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's Memorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974). As a
result of these amendments, the project is now generally progressing satis-
factorily, although mounting arrears are a source of concern and DBP is now
stepping up its supervision and collection efforts to deal with this. Bank
loans for subloans have been fully committed; however, because of the long
construction period of the large subprojects, full disbursement will be
delayed until mid-1978 and the Closing Date has been postponed to
June 30, 1979.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project is financing the diversion of water from the Aurora
basin into the Pantabangan reservoir to provide year-round irrigation for
30,000 ha of rice land in Central Luzon. Although the need for foundation and
abutment area grouting on the two diversion dams was more extensive than
originally expected, progress on the transbasin diversion has been excellent.
Diversion of 75% of Aurora water, on closure of the first dam in July 1975,
was an early benefit for the Central Luzon rice growing area. The second dam
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX L1
Page 4 of 14 pages
was closed on April 1, 1976, about one year ahead of schedule. In the service
area, lack of competition and high bids delayed awarding of contracts, but
five small local construction firms are now at work. Urgent work is being
done by government forces. Project costs have increased about 54% over
appraisal estimates, largely as a result of rapid inflation. Although there
are added benefits from early diversion resulting in additional water for
irrigation sooner than planned, and nearly 5,000 ha have been added to the
project, the rate of return is expected to fall from 17% at appraisal to
around 14%. The Credit has been fully disbursed and disbursement on the Loan
has begun. Because of de:Lays in completion of civil works in the Penaranda
service area, full disbursement is not likely to be completed until mid-1979
and the Closing Date has been postponed to June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 891    Fisheries; $11.6 Million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
This project is providing long-term credit to the private sector
through the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for marine and inland
fisheries development. The Loan became effective on December 5, 1973. It is
fully committed, and is expected to be fully disbursed before the Closing Date
(June 30, 1979). DBP has had difficulty in setting up a benefit monitoring/
evaluation system on its own, but it is now seeking local consultancy assistance.
Although not entirely satisfactory, loan collections have been considerably
better than for most of DBP's agricultural operations.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: Detcember 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve 21,000 ha of
land under three existing national irrigation systems and to extend irrigation
to 13,000 ha of additional land in Central Luzon. Upgrading of project roads
and construction of new roads also are included. In addition, the project
provides for a groundwater irrigation pilot project, a National Irrigation
Systems Improvement Study (NISIS), and a water management training program.
All major civil works contracts are in progress and the remaining work is
under way. General progress, although slower than originally estimated, is
improving. Progress on the groundwater, water management training and NISIS
components of the project is satisfactory. Due to the necessity of adding
drainage systems not included originally, completion of the project is now
expected to be delayed until the end of 1980.
Loan No. 1102   Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out rural devel-
opment on the island of Mindoro. Progress in the implementation of irrigation



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14 pages
systems and on the improvement of the port of Calapan is now accelerating.
Progress has also been made on the Mangyan (Minority) Assistance Program,
reforestation of watersheds and drainage of schistosomiasis affected areas.
The construction of roads has now begun after delays caused by the unsatisfac-
tory performance of a number of contractors. Disbursements, which currently
stand at 39% of projections, are lagging behind physical accomplishment due to
difficulties encountered in prompt processing of force account work and in
coordinating disbursement requests between agencies. Steps are now being
taken to streamline disbursement procedures.
Loan No. 1154   Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of land in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on engineering and economic evaluation studies of the
proposed Magat dam and reservoir has been completed. Civil works by local
contract and force account for rehabilitation and new construction of canals,
drains and access roads is progressing well. The water management training is
continuing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1225   Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is designed to increase domestic production of livestock
products. Despite a relative slowdown in lending over the past year, the
project remains several months ahead of schedule and would be fully disbursed
well before the Closing Date of June 30, 1982. The demand for piggery and
poultry subloans has exceeded appraisal estimates, but lending for beef cattle
development lags behind due to problems of land tenure, financial incentives,
technical knowledge and pasture development. The Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP), the project executing agency, has strengthened its technical
supervision of subloans, but further improvements are required in its management
information system and loan collection performance.
Loan No. 1227   Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Erosion Control Study and input-output monitoring program
are progressing satisfactorily. Although construction is nearly a year
behind schedule, sufficient equipment has been delivered so that force
account work can now proceed rapidly. Also bids have been opened for the
first major construction contract, and this construction should soon be
started.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1269   Second Grai.n Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:  November 12, 1976;
Closing Dat:e: June 30, 1981
The project is providing long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippine
grain processing industry. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Subloan commitments are exipected to begin shortly, now that Loan No. 720 is
fully committed.
Loan No. 1270   Second Fis'heries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is providing long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines (DBP) to assist in increasing fish production for
domestic consumption. Fishing vessels, iceplants with cold storage, a slipway,
and new and rehabilitated milkfish ponds are being financed under the project.
The loan became effective on November 15, 1976. Subloan approvals by DBP were
ahead of schedule in the first half of 1977, but have slowed down considerably,
due to problems in procurement procedures for fishing vessels, and DBP's
increased emphasis on loan collection. The procurement issue has been resolved
and the project is expected to be completed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1367   Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Detailed design for a major part of the works has been completed.
Contracts have been awarded for the procurement of equipment and vehicles.
Contracts for the improvement and enlargement of existing main canals of the
four systems are being awarded and construction has begun. The overall
progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1399   Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides medium- and long-term credit through partici-
pating banks to finance farmers and local entrepreneurs for farm mechanization,
livestock, fisheries, and cottage and agro-industries. The project became
effective on June 2, 1977.  With the recent increased participation of many
rural banks, commitments have recovered from an initial low rate. However, a
shortfall in commitments of as much as 20% may still be experienced because of
a decline in demand for four-wheel tractors without compensating growth in
demand in other subloan categories. In order to determine what changes in
project design or duration may be needed to ensure effective use of project
resources unlikely to be committed to this category of subloan, the Central
Bank is conducting a comprehensive reassessment of the lending program to be
reviewed with the next supervision mission.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1414   National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project; $50 Million
Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Topographic surveys and mapping have been completed ahead of schedule.
Project works are slightly behind schedule; however, with strengthening of
design tea-ns in the regional offices, a major part of the design would be
completed before the end of 1978. Construction activities during 1977/78 dry
season are limited to the improvement of secondary laterals and the construc-
tion of service roads along these laterals in the Ilocos subproject.
Loan No. 1421   Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve its National
Resettlement Program through technical assistance, organizational changes and
pilot programs to provide infrastructure and agricultural support services in
three settlement areas. The loan became effective on October 27, 1977. Proce-
dural problems concerning budget releases and staff appointments have adversely
affected progress in project implementation and have resulted in the execution
of most scheduled events being about a year behind schedule. However, progress
in detailed planning and design is generally satisfactory and the Government
has taken steps to resolve budgetary difficulties.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million Loan
of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is a continuation of the US$2 million Bank-financed Tree-
farming Pilot Project (Loan 998-PH), with additional project components in
large-scale plantations, forestry research and planning. Operations have begun
for most project components. Although the large-scale plantation component is
below target because of insufficient seed supply and managerial constraints,
no delaying effect on project completion is anticipated. Initial budgetary
deficiencies are expected to be overcome at the latest by the second year.
Due to the early stage of the project, disbursements have not yet begun.
Loan No. 1526 Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project: $65 Million
Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is assisting the Government to improve and develop irri-
gation systems on 80,900 ha, control schistosomiasis and strengthen the National
Irrigation Administration regional offices.  The Loan Agreement was signed on
Plarch 15, 1978 and became effective on June 12, 1978. The project is in its
initial stages of mobilization and preconstruction activities. Topographic
surveys and mapping are ahead of schedule. Improvement of main and secondary
canals is expected to start in November 1978.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14 pages
Credit No. 790      Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The credit is financing the construction and improvement of basic
infrastructure in six provinces chosen on the basis of low level of per capita
income and inadequate infrastructure. The infrastructure funded includes
communal irrigation systems, improvement of ports, health stations, rural
water supply and village roads. The credit was signed on April 21, 1978.
The Project is in its initial 'stages of mobilization and preconstruction
activities. Construction work on communal irrigation systems and village
roads has started.
Loan No. 1563-PH   The Magat River Multipurpose Project-Stage II; $150 Million
Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 24, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project wil:L assist the Government through completion of Stage II
of this project, to provide water to irrigation systems and improve systems
operation on 102,000 ha. Preconstruction works have been completed and works
on dam foundation grouting, drainage gallery tunneling and river diversion
tunnels are underway and expected to be completed by 1979. The civil works
contract for the main dam has been awarded and the contractor is in the
process of mobilizing staff and equipment.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939    Second Ports Project; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date: July 15, 1979
Progress has improved on civil works construction for both General
Santos and Cagayan de Oro, and the delays reduced to two and five months
respectively behind schedule. Work is now 65% completed at General Santos and
40% at Cagayan de Oro. About 180 m of the new quay at General Santos and 60 m
at Cagayan de Oro, have been turned over to the Philippine Ports Authority
(PPA) and are now in use.
Loan No. 950    Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1979
While over 95% of the construction program has been successfully
completed, one of nine national roads is behind schedule due to difficulties
experienced by the contractors in prosecuting the work. For this reason,
project completion is expected to be delayed 24 months beyond the appraisal
schedule. UNDP-financed road feasibility studies were completed in June 1975,
detailed engineering for the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) in August
1976, and detailed engineering for the proposed Fourth Highway Project in
October 1977. Weighbridges for axle load control has been procured, civil



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14 pages
works for permanent weigh stations are underway and the axle load control
program is scheduled for initial implementation by August 1978. The total
cost of the project has increased substantially (about 32% above the appraisal
estimate) due to the oil price increases in late 1973, delays in project
execution, and continuing inflation.
Loan No. 1048   Inter-island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
The Government is relending the proceeds of the Loan to the Develop-
ment Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for onlending to beneficiaries for the
acquisition of new and used ships and for major repairs and conversions.
Commitments were initially slow because of lack of demand from the private
sector due to the lengthy period required for the processing of loans, restric-
tive collateral requirements by DBP, and unfavorable lending terms offered by
DBP in comparison with those extended by other lending institutions in the
Philippines. However, these problems have now been resolved and subloan
commitments are expected to be fully made within the next six months.
Loan No. 1353   Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Contracts have been awarded for all national roads and contractor
mobilization is underway. Consultants for supervision of construction have
been appointed and have established themselves in the field. The technical
assistance advisors for maintenance improvement and road restoration have
been appointed and took up their duties beginning in September 1977. The
training advisors were appointed and began work in July 1977. The consul-
tants for the road and ferry feasibility studies have been appointed and
began work in November 1977. Consultants for workshop design and construc-
tion supervision have been appointed and began work in May 1977. After
a delay of about 12 months, the road maintenance and road restoration program
is now beginning to be implemented with planning of road restoration proj-
ects underway, contracts for 8 out of 28 workshops awarded, procurement con-
tracts for maintenance equipment, spare parts, tools and machinery being
prepared and normal maintenance activities being organized. Overall, project
costs are expected to remain close to appraisal estimates but indications are
that project execution will be delayed by about 12 months due to late start
of some critical activities.
Education Sector
Credit No. 349 Second Education; $12.7 Million Credit of January 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 11, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides $12.7 million to finance improvements to
existing middle and higher level agricultural education institutions, curric-
ulum development, and new technical and vocational institutions in rural



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14 pages
areas. Physical progress is now good under the project and disbursements have
reached 75% of planned levels. All of the 32 project institutions have been
completed and three fourths of the technical assistance program has been
completed. Cost overruns of 13% are expected in dollar terms because of
inflation and earlier lack of cost control over civil works; the amount of
equipment purchased has been reduced to compensate for cost overruns. The
fellowship program is behind schedule, and will extend two years beyond the
Closing Date. Savings in ithe Third Education Project will finance the balance
of the program.
Loan No. 1224   Third Education Project; $25 Ilillion Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers the first phase (1976-80) of the Government's
eight-year textbook program and provides for the development, production
and distribution of 27 million textbooks. It also provides for curriculum
development, teacher training and technical assistance. Implementation is
proceeding on schedule, and project costs are well within appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1374   Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
March 25, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project is assisting the Government in developing agricultural
education and training. It includes assistance for: specialized facilities
for forestry, animal science, and veterinary medicine; a regional agricultural
college in the Visayas; and training for extension workers and farmer leaders.
Implementation of the pro'ject is generally on schedule, with the exception of
civil works contract awards which have been delayed by about four months because
of delayed government clearances. Project costs are within the appraisal
estimates.
Loan No. S-8-PH Educational Radio Technical Assistance; $2 million loan of
April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The proposed project is assisting the Government to develop and evalu-
ate the cost effectiveness of educational radio in inservice teacher training
and primary classroom teaching. The loan became effective on August 22, 1978.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282   $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The loan is financing: (a) improvements in basic sanitary services for
families living in the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat Dagatan areas, and (b) improve-
ments in transportation and traffic in the Greater Manila Area. Construction



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14 pages
on 1,500 of 2,000 serviced lots at Dagat Dagatan is nearing completion. The
high school and health clinic in Tondo have been constructed and the subdivision
of lots in the Tondo priority area is also nearing completion. The progress of
the project is generally satisfactory. A paper on the status of this project
was submitted to the Executive Directors in December 1977.
Loan No. 1415   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:  September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This loan is financing: (a) water supply improvement and expansion
in six provincial cities; (b) feasibility studies for water supply improve-
ment in ten additional cities; and (c) feasibility studies for Manila sewerage.
There has been a delay of about 2 months in the preparation of detailed designs
for the construction of water supplies to six cities. This loss of time is
expected to be made up in the coming months. The preparation of feasibility
studies for 10 cities is on schedule as is also the Manila Sewerage Design Study.
The Government is also taking action for the training of staff in the design of
small community water supplies.
Loan No. 1615   Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of July 26,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
This loan is assisting the Government to provide safe water for an
additional four million people in Metropolitan Manila, as well as improve the
service to some 3 million who are inadequately served at present. The Loan
Agreement was signed July 26, 1978. It is not yet effective.
Power Sector
Loan No. 809    Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296 of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation to finance
the second unit of 150 MW at the Bataan thermal power plant, expansion
of the transmission system in Luzon and consultants' services. The project
was completed in mid-1977, two years behind schedule, Due to cost overruns,
a part of the transmission project was transferred to the Sixth Power Project.
The actual project cost as finally constructed is about US$59.3 million - an
increase of about US$11.0 million over the original estimates. The closing
date of the loan has been postponed from June 30, 1978 to December 31, 1978
to allow full disbursement of committed funds. Credit 296-PH was fully
disbursed in April 1975.



- 37 -                  ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1034    Sixth Power;  $61.0 Million Loau of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of a 100 MW hydropower plant at Pantabangan,
Luzon, transmission lines for the expansion of the Luzon grid and consultants'
services. The generating plant was commissioned in April 1977. The trans-
mission facilities will IIow be completed late in 1980, more than two years
behind schedule. The revised cost of the project is estimated at US$113.8
million, an increase of about 24% over the original estimate (US$92.0 million).
The cost overrun for the foreign exchange component is US$4.3 million (7%).
The closing date of the loan has been postponed from December 31, 1978 to
June 30, 1981 to allow additional time for completion of the transmission
systems and payment of the retention money.
Loan No. 1460   Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing ])ate: June 30, 1982
The project wi:Ll include the expansion of the transmission
system in Luzon, a load lispatching center, consultants' services for manage-
ment improvement and a tariff study. The loan became effective on January 6,
1978. Progress on works is generally satisfactory, but, because of each
action by Government and the National Power Corporation (NPC) with regard to
tariff increases, the rate of return covenant is unlikely to be met.
Loan No. 1547   Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of April 4, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project will help finance the 1979/80 rural electrification
program of the National Electrification Administration. The loan became
effective on August 17, 1978. Procurement action is under way.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998    Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the loan were relent to the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million)
has been used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao.
Loan No. 1052   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The proceeds of the loan are on-lent by PDCP to financially and
economically viable industrial subprojects.  As of November 2, 1978,



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14 pages
total commitments reached US$25.28 million. Commitments and disbursements
have been slower than originally expected because of the poor investment
climate which prevailed until 1977 in the Philippines. Business activities
have picked up in 1978 and the loan is expected to be fully committed by
early 1979. Overall progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120   Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP portion of the funds has been fully disbursed. After a
slow start, commitment and disbursement of funds under the Industrial Guarantee
Loan Fund are now proceeding well. However, the Rural Industrial Cooperative
Program ($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electrifica-
tion Administration is, because of its experimental nature, facing management
and staffing problems. Disbursements on this component have therefore been
slow. Overall progress of the project is, however, satisfactory.
Loan No. 1190   Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of
January 28, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the loan are relent by the Development Bank of the
Philippines for subloans to finance the foreign exchange component of medium
and relatively large industrial projects. Commitments of funds, which were
initially much slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the
industrial sector as a whole, have recently improved. The Executive Directors
approved a proposal to reallocate $25 million of the funds for small and
medium industries on February 25, 1977, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement
to this effect was signed on March 16, 1977. As of October 13, 1978, the
allocation of $50 million for medium- and large-scale industry had been fully
committed. In addition, $13.9 million had been disbursed against the allocation
for small- and medium-scale industries.
Loan No. 1514   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines; $30 Million
Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This loan was signed on February 9, 1978, and became effective June 23,
1978.
Loan No. 1555   Philippine Investments Systems Organization (PISO); $15 Million
Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1978
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Proceeds of the loan are relent by PISO for financing the foreign
exchange component of imported capital goods and services for eligible
productive enterprises in the Philippine private sector. As of October 31,
1978, commitments for subloans totalling US$8.05 million had been made.
Since the pace of commitment is much faster than anticipated during loan
appraisal, the loan is expected to be fully committed by early 1979. Overall
progress of the project is satisfactory.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1572   Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines; $80 Million loan of
June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This loan was signed on June 6, 1978. It became effective September 15,
1978.
Population
Loan No. 1035   Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is assisting the Government in expanding rural health
infrastructure, and in providing staff training facilities and technical
assistance for the development of a management information system and for
training. Under the direction of the Project Management Staff in the Depart-
ment of Health, overall project implementation is progressing well. Training
activities are ahead of schedule in all 12 regions. The civil works component
is behind schedule but is expected to be completed ahead of the appraisal
report timetable due to simplification of construction design. Progress under
the project is satisfactory.



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
SECOND IJRBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section 1 - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country
to prepare the project:       The project was prepared in approxi-
mately one year (November 1976 -
October 1977) by the National Housing
Authority and the staff of the local
governments of Cebu, Davao and
Cagayan de Oro assisted by consultants.
(b) First Bank mission to
consider the project:         March 1977.
(c) Departure of appraisal
mission:                      October 8, 1977, followed by updating
mission in February 1978.
(d) Completion of
negotiations:                 November 21, 1978
(e) Planned date of
effectiveness:                March 31, 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
The following special conditions are incorporated in the draft Loan
Agreement:
(a) NHA will continue to employ consultants for construction management
in Dagat-Dagatan and program design in each of the regional cities,
whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 55).
(b)  A full-time Project 'lanager and a Works Engineer would be appointed
for each project site in Cebu, Davao and Cagayan de Oro, prior to
inviting bids for civil works for that site (para. 57).



- 41 -
ANNEX III
F 2
(c)  A financial and technical report would be made of the project
in each city OrL a quarterly basis by NHAts consultants and
the Commission on Audit will furnish to the Bank annually an audit
of tne project accounts (para. 61).
(d) NRA will establish a beneficiary selection procedure that is satis-
factory to the Bank and will prepare, in consultation with the Bank,
standard agreements setting out the terms and conditions under
which lots may be leased or sold (para. 68).
(e) The Government will provide adequate staff and financial resources
to implement the housing and building materials loan programs
(para. 57).
(f) The Project implementation offices in the regional cities, which are
now adequately staffed, will be maintained and the Government will
submit to the 'Bank semi-annual reports on the staffing arrangements
in each of the regional cities (para. 57).
(g) The Government will inform the Bank of any significant proposals
for expenditures for civil works in the project areas (other than
project expenditures) for a period of four years (para. 57).
(h) NRA will establish a staff training program (para. 59).
(i) NHA will update its three-year program for manpower and financial
resource requirements quarterly and will inform the Bank prior to
final approval of any material change, during the project implemen-
tation period, in the plan (para. 60).
(j) A new senior level position will be created and filled within NHA by
January 31, 19I79, to be responsible for the development of new
financial resources, external financial relations, and the super-
vision of NHA's financial control system (para. 59).
The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and
NHA that is satisfactory to the Bank is an additional condition of effective-
ness of the proposed loan.






IBRD 13471
-9f   4                                                                                                                                                               ,-                       iiii.                        l ,'t
t;                   z                             :1  ^/                             t                <<                                                           t              -s >                    >         2:  R SS 0 =9              :   : '7
r-; 9                                 - -,.                                                                                                  .
o  {-'K9-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  -~~~~~~~~~~~~  9  ~~~~~                          ~~~~~                                                          ~-99                                 9~~~~~~~~~~~L
c  A-&  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                     0        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0~~~~u
0                                                                                                                                                                             9           9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*   9 -~~






IBRD 13472
S,SuH  C I 4 
| Z , F rt t; /  ,?                                                                  PHILIPPINES
SECOND SITES AND SERVICES
SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Dagat - Dagatan Sites and Services
E' F XIBRD Proiect Phase Boundaries
Other NHA Projects
Drains
______  Major Roads
____Roads
N
PROJECT AREA (ho]
Housing Commercia1 Total
A      -       8.0      8.0
C    15.7     13.0     28.7
/D 21.0        8 0     29.0
M on i/o                                                                         E  ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~23.3  -  23 3
F    30.0      4.0     34.0
Bay                  :\          \                                   W       1? 1                        G      -       7.0      7.0
TOTAL  90.0      40.0   130.0
0                 0 5                  1 0                          STAGEI r
KiLOMETERS                                      L. Sewrge Ponds
0                     ~~~~~~~~0.5                     1.0                    9oCrLa    -
MILES                                                     _ _
MAA 1?7&






IBRD 13473
MAY 1978
PHILIPPINES
SECOND SITES AND SERVICES
SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Regional Cities
Al.. to he Improved
5                  ~~~~~~~~~SIm  Are.ohs
LE   ; e,N-  Sites *,   d Se-c-t. be heB\ilt
,   <I -DAVAO                                                                     .......
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~15  3                                                                                     , ¢, , >,   ,  :El /11
K-~~~24s (                                      ccalLoMre 2    q~0cEB7- y::o   
L 6  7 2 moOfl4
-7  -  7-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  7, ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ 13 



