Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2048a-PH
FILE1  COP- Y'- 
PHILIPPINES
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
December 1, 1978
Urban Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               Peso (P)
1 Peso                 =    US$0.1351
US$1                   =    P 7.4
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                         =  39.37 inches (in)
1 square meter (sq m)               =  10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)                =  35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)                   =   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)              3.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                      =  10,000 square meters (sq m or
2.47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)                         =  1.057 quarts liquid or 0.26 US gal-
lon (gal) or 0.908 quart dry (qt)
1 liter per capita per day (lpcd) =  0.26 US gallon per capita (gcd)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         -   Asian Development Bank
BDCN        -   Barangay Daycare Nutrition Centers
BPW         -   Bureau of Public Works
COA         -   Commission on Audit
DDPO        -   Dagat-Dagatan Project Office
GNP         -   Gross National Product
GSIS        -   Government 'Service Insurance System
HSC         -   Human Settlements 'Commission
IBRD        -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IPICS       -   Inter-Agency Project Implementation Coordination Staff
LOI         -   Letters of Instruction
MASICAP     -   Medium and Small Industries Coordinated Action Program
MEC         -   Ministry of Education and Culture
MHS         -   Ministry of Human Settlements
MLGCD       -   Ministry of Local Government and Community Development
MMA         -   Metro Manila Area
MMC         -   Metro Manila Commission
MMCHO       -   Metro Manila Commission Health Office
MOH         -   Ministry of Health
MPH         -   Ministry of Public Highways
MPWTC       -   Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and Communication
MSSD        -   Ministry of Social Services
NEDA        -   National Economic and Development Authority
NHA         -   National Housing Authority
NNC         -   National Nutrition Council
PID         -   Project Implementation Department
PNB         -   Pambansang Bagong Nayon Program
POPCOM      -   Population Commission
ROW         -   Right of Way
SBAC        -   Small Business Advisory Centers
SIR         -   Slum Improvement and Resettlement Program
SSS         -   Social Security System
UNDP        -   United Nations Development Program
USAID       -   United States Agency of International Development
ZIP         -   Zonal Improvement Program
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                            Page No.
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND .......    1
A.   Urban Trends, Institutions and Policy .1
B.   Shelter and Sanitation in the Project Cities .....    4
C.   Experience Gained under the First Project ........    6
II.   PROJECT COMPONENTS, COSTS AND FINANCE       ..    .......    7
A.  The Project                ........              ....    7
B.   Detailed Project Description         .     ........    9
C.   Cost Estimates        ...................................   17
D.   Financing Plan ...      ................................   20
III.   BORROWING AND EXECUTING AGENCIES       ......................   22
A.   Project Organization and Management .............  .   22
B.   National Housing Authority .......................   24
C.   Local Government .......................................   29
IV.   DESIGN STANDARDS AND PROJECT SPECIFICATIONS .......... .   31
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .....................................   34
A.   Procurement   ............ . .........................  34
B.   Disbursements .... ............................  34
C.   Supervision .........................................   35
D.   Community Participation ....................  ......  35
E.   Lot Allocation Procedures for Sites
and Services Areas..   36
F. Land Tenure......                                        36
G.   Implementation Schedule.                               37
This report is based on the findings of Messrs. Pellegrini, Whitehead, Williams
and Ms. Sewell and Messrs. Ellis and Jorgenson (Consultants) who visited the
Philippines in October/November 1977 to commence the Appraisal.  A follow-up
mission comprising Messrs. Pellegrini (chief of mission), Whitehead and
Ms. Sewell and Mr. Ellis (Consultant) visited the Philippines in February/
March 1978 to complete the Appraisal.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Chapter                                                                     Page No.
VI.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .........  ............... .. ..............   37
A.   Cost Recovery ... .* .......... ..............   .....         37
B.   Demand and Affordability ............                          39
C.   Impact on Municipal Finance    ..............        .....    41
D.   Replicability of the National SIR Program ....... .            41
VII.    JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ...............................   42
VIII.    RECOMMENDATIONS ................ .. . ............................   45
ANNEXES
Supporting Tables and Charts
T-1  Detailed Cost Estimates ......          ....................    47
T-2  Agency Responsibilities for Project Implementation   48
T-3  Project Standards . .............................. .    49
T-4  Project Cash Flow ........         .      ......................   50
T-5  Design and Construction Standards ....            ............   51
Chart IBRD 18948 ........................ ................ 0....   52
List of Data Available in Project File .....................   53
MAPS
Project Location                               13471
Dagat-Dagatan Sites and Services               13472
Regional Cities                                13473



PHILIPPINES
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Urban Trends, Institutions and Policy
1.01      Urban Structure and Growth - Urban structure in the Philippines is
characterized by a highly dominant capital, Metro Manila, together with a
large number of lower-middle size cities. The 1975 total population of the
Philippines was estimated at 41.5 million persons, of which 13.8 million or
33% live in areas classified as urban. Of these, 5.5 million persons, almost
40% of the national urban population live in Metro Manila 1/. Another 20% of
the urban population live in other cities with populations greater than
100,000 while the remaining 40% live in cities with populations below 100,000.
1.02      During the period 1960 to 1970, the urban population grew at approxi-
mately 4.0% per annum compared to about 3.1% per annum overall. Growth rates
have been uneven among cities of different sizes with Metro Manila and smaller
cities growing fastest. By the turn of the century, the population of the
Philippines will have grown to 75 or 80 million persons, almost double its
present population and up to two thirds of the added population may have to be
absorbed in urban areas even under optimistic projections of rural employment.
Before the end of the century, the percentage of families living in urban
areas is expected to reach 46% of the total population.
Urban Poverty/Employment
1.03      The urban poverty threshold estimated for the Philippines is P 1,880
(US$254) per person per year in 1977. Although available data is not precise.
it indicates that approximately 40% of families in urban areas and about 80% of
families in typical slum areas of major cities have per capita incomes
below this level. Recent data on unemployment show a steady decline in rates
of urban unemployment to an estimated level of only about 5% of the work force
in 1975. However, high levels of underemployment are evidenced by the high
?roportion of household heads employed on a part-time basis and by low wages of
P 10 per day (US$1.40) for a typical urban laborer. The real income of unskilled
workers in recent years has remained constant. A number of national programs
exist to promote industrial and business expansion, including smallscale
industry. Among these are new efforts to integrate small commercial and
industrial areas within new low-income residential. estates financed by the
National Housing Authority (NHA).
1/   In the 13 municipalities and 4 cities of the Metro Manila Commission.



-2-
Urban Services
1.04      Most of the country's regional centers and smaller towns have been
unable to keep pace with expanding demands for extension of basic infrastruc-
ture partly because of financial constraints at the local level and partly
because of other national priorities. As a result, municipal infrastructure
is generally inadequate to accommodate the basic needs of large segments of
the urban population. In urban areas only about half of the population has
access to a relatively safe water supply. Only about 58% of households in
Metro Manila have any type of sanitary toilets and for the country as a whole
only about 25% of households have such facilities. In larger urban centers,
typhoid, cholera and gastroenteritis are endemic and the most recent National
Health Plan 1975-80 cited poor environmental health as a major factor in the
high national incidence of communicable diseases.
1.05      A particularly serious problem has been the formation and growth
of large squatter areas which have developed since World War II. A recent
survey indicated that almost 25% of all urban households in the Philippines
live in squatter settlements or low-income slums without safe water supply,
drainage, human waste disposal or paved footpaths. Health and sanitation
conditions in these urban slums are appalling. Available studies indicate
that slum families in urban areas are more malnourished and in poorer health
than their low-income counterparts in rural areas. Records from a clinic in
Macabalan, for example, a typical squatter area in Cagayan de Oro, indicate
that mortality from gastroenteritis is almost ten times higher in that slum
than in the region as a whole. The total rate of infant mortality which is
high in the Philippines - variously estimated at 68 to 80 per 1,000 births -
is even higher in slum areas where a rate of about 130 per 1,000 is common.
Urban Issues
1.06      The two overriding urban issues facing the Philippines and on which
the Bank's urban lending strategy is increasingly being focused, are: (i) the
need to implement an effective urban/regional development strategy; and (ii)
the need to reduce the great disparities in access to basic sanitation and
public health infrastructure that characterize urban areas.
1.07      Regional Development and Urbanization Strategy - Any realistic
regional development plan should balance public investment in Metro Manila
against investment in other regions.  In the past, the intermediate cities
and their municipal infrastructure needs have been neglected as a focus of
policy. More recently an urban/regional spatial development strategy is
being evolved, based partly on a UNDP-financed and Bank-executed Regional
Development Study and partly on the work of the National Economic and Devel-
opment Authority (NEDA) in conjunction with the newly established Ministry of
Human Settlements (MHS). This is expected to lead to more effective planning
on a regional basis. However, the development of effective national level
support to budgeting and investment programming by local and municipal gov-
ernments still remains a high priority need. Local governments alone, with
inadequate technical staff and inadequate financial capacity, will be unable
to fulfill these functions. Technical assistance to support such efforts
in the three largest regional cities is included in this project.



-3-
1.08      Distribution of Services - The need to improve the equity of the
distribution of basic infrastructure within urbanized centers is particularly
urgent. For decades, legal impasse over property rights in large urban
squatter areas has prevented not only private investment but also the exten-
sion of public services resulting in the perpetuation of these unserviced and
highly congested "shanty towns" and a perpetuation of the consequent public
health problems. The Government's newly established Slum Improvement and
Resettlement (SIR) Program, which provides for acquisition, where necessary,
of squatter land from absentee landowners (through expropriation if required)
and resale to residents, provides the legislative basis and the national level
support necessary to begin dealing with these problems. A parallel program of
c       low-cost sites and services in locations close to employment has also been
developed in an attempt to reduce the shortage of low income plots that leads
to squatting.
Urban Institutions
1.09      Since 1975, a number of important new institutions have been estab-
lished and are beginning to significantly affect the development of national
urbanization policies. In July 1975 the National Housing Authority was
established to consolidate Government housing efforts, previously dispersed
among six separate national bodies. The Ministry of Human Settlement (MHS)
was established in July 1978 with responsibilities for national human settle-
ments planning, especially land use planning, environmental management,
regional monitoring and planning assistance regulation and technology re-
search. Coordination of planning in the metropolitan Manila area has been
enhanced recently with the establishment of the Metro Manila Commission (MMC).
The Commission sets overall planning priorities in the metro area, establishes
budget guidelines and has responsibility for review and approval of the
budgets of the 4 cities and 13 municipalities of the MMC area. The Government
has also recently established the National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation
to provide a secondary market for home mortgages, but this corporation is not
yet operational.
Housing Policies
1.10      Housing policies have evolved rapidly over the last year or so.  In
a major policy development, the Government has established, and has given
highest priority among infrastructure developments, to programs of slum
improvement in Manila and other major urban areas.
1.11      Three implementing Letters of Instruction (LOI) which are issued
by the President and carry the force of law, outline the basis for the new
approach. The first, LOI 557, adopts slum improvement as a national policy
and specifies that relocation of squatters will occur only if necessitated
by important public infrastructure works, and that squatters would not be
relocated to distant sites. The second, LOI 555, (as amended by LOI 686)
institutes a program of slum improvement specifying NHA as the national
coordinating agency and requiring local governments to organize their planning
staff and to prepare 3-year, 5-year and long-term programs of improving slums
in place.



-4-
1.12      In Metro Manila this slum upgrading program is known as the Zonal
Improvement Program (ZIP).  With financial and technical support from NHA,
all 17 local governments in the Manila metropolitan area have established
permanent technical teams to undertake design and feasibility studies for
upgrading slums in their respective municipalities. Some 212 major slum
areas in Metro Manila with a population of almost one million persons are
already included in this program. In the regional cities, this program is
known as the Slum Improvement and Resettlement Program (SIR). SIR programs
have now been established in the cities of Cebu, Davao, Cagayan de Oro and
Baguio and NHA is evaluating other cities in terms of their priority for
participation in the program. Because of the importance attached to these
programs by the Government, the Minister of Local Government and Community
Development has directed all regional directors to consider the funding
requirements of the SIR program as a priority in the utilization of the local
government development fund. If these programs are successful, they will have
a major beneficial impact over the next ten years on the lives of the poorest
30 to 40% in the country's towns and cities.
1.13      With these initiatives as an important element, the National Housing
Authority has recently proposed a new three-year program plan in which about
50% of total units would be devoted to slum improvement, 25% to new sites and
services and 25% to fully completed housing units. While these are new pro-
grams being implemented by a new agency, and many institutional improvements
must be carried out over the coming years, the program is rapidly becoming
both well-balanced and innovative in its approaches toward improving the
living conditions of the urban poor.
B. Shelter and Sanitation in the Project Cities
1.14      The project supports development efforts in the four most important
metropolitan areas of the Philippines: Metro Manila, Cebu, Davao and Cagayan
de Oro.
1.15      Metro Manila - Metro Manila, with a population of about 5.5 million,
exhibits some of the worst housing conditions in the country. In 1972,
approximately 50% of physically inadequate dwelling units in the Philippines
and 80% in all urban areas were in Metro Manila. About 1.8 million persons
live in slum and squatter areas with very low levels of environmental sanita-
tion.
1.16      The 1975 Urban Sector Survey of metropolitan Manila recommended two
general goals for Bank assistance: a short-term goal of removing or reducing
the worst of the existing disparities; and a longer-term goal of arresting or
attenuating haphazard patterns of growth. The large new community at Dagat-
Dagatan will both address the shelter needs of very low-income families and
assist in the strategy of urban "infilling" recommended as the alternative to
more haphazard growth. Such increases in the supply of residential units are
particularly important in meeting the shelter needs of a population growing



-5-
at a rate of about a quarter of a million persons per year. Slum improvement
through the Zonal Improvement Program has recently been accorded a very high
priority and is in advanced stage of preparation.
1.17      Other priority areas for investment in Metro Manila include water
supply, drainage, and transport and traffic management. A major project
jointly funded by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Bank will double
available water supply capacity and extend distribution facilities by 1982.
Flood control has also been a chronic annual problem in Metro Manila. Short-
ages of dredging equipment have seriously hindered Government efforts and
continued filling-in of drainage canals over the past 15 years by uncontrolled
development has led to significant alterations of drainage patterns.  The
flood control master plan originally prepared in 1952 is in need of a thorough
revision. Traffic management should be significantly improved by the forma-
tion of a Traffic Management Authority for Metro Manila and by civil works
improvements to key junctions and signalization works financed under the
Manila Urban Development Project.
1.18      Cebu - The metropolitan area with a total population of about one
million persons is growing rapidly because of mining and industrial potential.
Its strategic location and accessibility make it the trading center for the
central part of the Philippine archipelago. The Metropolitan Water District
in Cebu is implementing short-term and longer-range plans to improve water
supply capacity in the city, including a reservoir and trunk mains, funded, in
part, from an ADB loan, and construction of deep wells and pumping stations to
further augment capacity. Estimates indicate that 25% of the total city
population live in slum and squatter areas.
1.19      Davao - Davao City in Southern Mindanao has a population of about
525,000 and is basically oriented towards agriculture. The Davao City Water
District is extending and modernising the water supply system. Work on the
trunk mains, funded by USAID, is underway way and the scheme is expected to
come into operation during 1978. However, some 115,000 persons or 22% of
the population, live in slum and squatter settlements, located mainly near
the coastal creeks and rivers, near work opportunities. Shortage of land
suitable for residential purposes has led to very high densities in these
slum and squatter areas typically 900 to 1,600 persons per hectare.
1.20      Cagayan de Oro - Cagayan de Oro with a population of about 85,000
persons has significant industrial growth potential.  The growth rate of the
city has probably been at least 5% per year in recent years. The Cagayan de
Oro city water supply system has recently been completely reconstructed and
extensions of trunk mains should be completed by end 1978. About 26% of
the total city population, live in slum and squatter areas. Extensions to the
port which handles 300,000 passengers and over 2,500 ships per annum are well
advanced, and should be an important factor in expanded employment opportu-
nities. About 26% of the total city population live in slum and squatter
areas.



-6-
C. Experience Gained under the First Project
1.21      The Manila Urban Development Project, the first urban project in
the Philippines financed by the Bank, provided assistance to the Government
in the areas of slum upgrading, traffic and transport, and metropolitan tax
administration. Progress in the Manila Urban Development Project is generally
very satisfactory. The staffing problems of the Tondo Project Office which
caused delays in production of designs and slow disbursements have been
largely resolved.  Filling remaining key positions was a condition of negoti-
ating the proposed project. NHA as a whole has been facing large and growing
responsibilities, and in order to assist them in dealing with these responsi-
bilities, the second project has focused on longer-term institutional improve-
ments within NHA. Each component of the first project is discussed separately
below.
1.22      Through the Tondo Foreshore/Dagat-Dagatan Component, urban services
are being extended to approximately 180,000 persons. Some 2,000 serviced
sites are also provided at Dagat-Dagatan for squatter families affected
by the expansion of the International Port and construction of the R10
roadway. In the Tondo, main infrastructure is about 85% complete and
about 25% of the upgrading is in various stages of completion. A new
health clinic has been finished and health programs are under-
way in mother and child care, nutrition, deworming, TB, XRay, vermin and
rodent control, improved garbage collection and health education. Health
workers trained under the project and working on a part-time basis are con-
sidered a model for similar health workers being considered under other
population and health projects. The new Tondo High School has been completed
and additional classrooms for four existing elementary schools will begin
shortly. There is as yet, insufficient experience to judge the success or
failure of the small business loan program, but this will be monitored care-
fully. Construction costs for the Tondo Foreshore/Dagat-Dagatan component are
expected to be slightly below original estimates.
1.23      In early 1976, after appraisal of the first project, the Government
established a high priority program to relieve chronic flooding in Metro
Manila. The program involved widening and dredging and removing squatters
from drainage canals throughout the MMC area, (but not the project area).
Because of a lack of readily available land for settling these squatter
families in close proximity to the city, distant sites at Sapang Palay and
Dasmarinas were utilized as relocation centers. Because of unhappiness with
the distant location of these sites, various squatter groups of the Metro
area, many of whose leaders reside in Tondo, expressed fears that the Tondo
project would not be implemented as agreed and that families in the project
areas also would be relocated to distant relocation centers. They also argued
strongly for the right to purchase freehold title to the land at a value
considerably below the market value. Despite the fears that have been
expressed, no families in the Tondo Project area were affected by the estero
widening program and no relocation to distant sites has taken place. The



project is being implemented as planned and enjoys the very strong support of
the residents. In fact with the upgrading complete in one section of Tondo,
the Tondo project has become a visible model of the type of improvements
sought by residents of depressed areas throughout metropolitan Manila. A
detailed status report on these components was distributed to the Executive
Directors on December 31, 1977.
1.24      The Tondo Foreshore Dagat-Dagatan component of the project is already
demonstrating the validity of the basic concepts which underly the Government's
current approach to shelter. Available evidence appears to confirm that the
project has brought the area to the "take-off" point, and has stimulated
private investment by residents to an even greater extent than previously
predicted. This is being systematically reviewed by a special monitoring unit
which is conducting studies of the long-term impact of the project. Pre-
liminary information indicates that private investment in substantial house
construction is being done by hired artisans and family labor at a cost per
unit of 20-50% below the cost of similar work when constructed using normal
contracting methods by the Government. Because of this, and to promote the
participation of small private sector contractors, NHA is expanding its
efforts to produce low-cost building lots and to expand the use of building
materials loans.  A great deal has also been learned about appropriate imple-
mentation procedures including the importance of (i) community participation
in neighborhood planning; (ii) coordination between involved agencies in
the provision of community facilities; and (iii) building materials loans.
1.25      Progress in other components of the Manila Urban Development Project
is as follows: contract documents for the R10 road and the major roads
component are completed. Final design of the C2 roadway will be complete by
June 1979. The cost of the component is expected to be P 115 million versus
an appraisal estimate of P 105 million due to sea wall and stabilization costs
that are higher than originally anticipated. Based on experiments in exclusive
bus and jeepney lanes, a network of such public transport lanes along with
other traffic engineering measures is about to be established. Tenders have
been received for 88 linked traffic signals and a number of junction improve-
ments are underway.
1.26      Assistance in metropolitan finance has led to the establishment of a
consolidated budget and uniform property tax rates for the metropolitan area.
Efforts are now underway to improve property tax collection performance.
II. PROJECT COMPONENTS, COSTS AND FINANCE
A. The Project
Project Objectives
2.01      The proposed project would be the Bank's second urban project in the
Philippines. It would be addressed to the provision of basic needs for the
lowest income families in each project city. Building on the experience of



-8-
the first urban project, it is designed to assist the Government in developing
affordable solutions to the problems of poverty, shelter and environmental
sanitation in Metro Manila and regional cities through:
(a) support to the establishment of the new national
Slum Improvement Program that would regularize
land tenure and install sanitation and other basic
infrastructure;
(b) support to NHA in establishing its program of sites
and services by developing well-located vacant
land into small residential plots;
(c) promotion and expansion of employment through
commercial and industrial sites, business loans
and technical assistance; and
(d) institutional assistance to the NHA and local
governments to improve program planning and project
execution and to train staff.
2.02      Whereas the first Bank-financed urban project in Manila was compre-
hensive, involving upgrading the Tondo Foreshore, major road links, traffic
engineering and management, and assistance in the finance and delivery of
services, the second project is focused on developing important new institu-
tional arrangements to alleviate the worst conditions of service level dis-
parities. A major goal of the regional cities component of the project
therefore has been to assist the Government in establishing slum upgrading
on a programatic basis in each city. The project cities of Cagayan de Oro,
Davao and Cebu were identified as priority cities for slum improvement
by NHA and its Board and are the first cities outside of Metro Manila to have
formulated their program and to have established staff for this purpose. The
Metro Manila component of the project establishes the first NRA sites and
services development that would not be tied to a relocation program, but would
instead provide a substantial addition to the housing stock. This component
would provide infrastructure works at Dagat-Dagatan sufficient to establish
the area as a balanced residential and commercial center for the north-central
part of Metro Manila.
Project Components
2.03      The proposed project would consist of:
(a) Sites and services in Metro Manila ($33.57 million
equivalent) at Dagat-Dagatan for about 8,600 residential
plots on about 90 ha including (i) land, (ii) infra-
structure, (iii) core houses with sanitary facilities,
(iv) materials loans for house completion through self-
help, (v) health, education and social facilities.



-9-
(b) Slum improvement in the 3 regional cities of Cebu,
Davao and Cagayan de Oro ($9.31 million equiva-
lent) involving basic infrastructure services and
community facilities for about 7,600 households.
(c) Sites and services in the regional cities ($6.53 mil-
lion equivalent) (i) about 3,800 plots on open land,
(ii) about 800 infill plots in low-density slums and
adjacent to high-density slums, (iii) sanitary facil-
ities, (iv) building materials loans, (v) community
facilities.
(d) Industrial/commercial development ($9.40 million equiv-
alent) involving 40 ha of serviced land in Metro Manila
and 15.3 ha in regional cities for income generation and
employment purposes.
(e) Small business development ($2.19 million equivalent)
including markets, technical assistance and loan funds
for equipment and working capital. In Dagat-Dagatan
approximately 2 ha and in the regional cities about 1 ha
of serviced land will be provided for cottage industries
integrated within residential areas.
(f) Flood control equipment ($2.22 million equivalent) pur-
chase of special dredging equipment to control flooding
in Metro Manila.
(g) Technical assistance and training. ($6.72 million
equivalent) Assistance: to NHA for planning and policy
development, training, project execution, monitoring and
feasibility studies; to MPWTC for flood control studies;
to NEDA for feasibility studies for metropolitan program
analysis in Cebu, Davao and Cagayan de Oro, and for review
of national small-scale business programs; to MHS for
assistance in policy and program planning and to the MMC
for training and planning studies.
B. Detailed Project Description
Metro Manila Sites and Services
2.06      The sites and services component in Metro Manila will be located
at Dagat-Dagatan (Map 13472). The Government owned site is very well located,
approximately 3 km north of the major employment centers of the International
Port and the central commercial area. Site access will be enhanced through
completion of the RIO roadway in 1979 financed under the Manila Urban Develop-
ment Project. The site comprises reclaimed fish ponds originally expropriated
as a relocation center for families from the Tondo. Following the decision to
-upgrade the Tondo by providing services in place, feasibility studies were



- 10 -
initiated to utilize the already reclaimed land by planning the area as a new
integrated community with developed plots for low-income families and for
industrial/commercial uses.
2.07      The project provides 8,600 residential plots on 90 ha plus services
for 40 ha of land zoned for commercial and industrial purposes. This is part
of a larger development totalling 377 ha, and involving a total of about
20,000 residential plots and 75 ha industrial/commercial land. Primary
infrastructure provided under the project would serve a larger population in
areas ad acent to the project.  Rsidential lot sizes will range from 48 m
to 150 m with an average of 72 m to attract a mix of income groups and to
respond to the general demand for housing at both low and middle-income lev-
els. The smallest lots would be affordable by families at the 10th percentile
of the income curve for Metro Manila who would earn about P 270 (US$36) per
month. Each lot will be provided with individual water supply and sewerage
connections. Five types of on-lot development will be available, ranging
from service connections to a shell house. Also, 80 demonstration units will
be built to show alternative development approaches and use of different mate-
rials. Designs maximize ventilation, the multiple use of space, and oppor-
tunities for building rental rooms. Schools, health centers, and community
facilities will be provided to serve the 16 Barangays (a local political
unit) within the project area.
Regional Cities SIR Programs
2.08      The regional cities component of the project finances the first
three years of a long-term program of improving slums in the regional cities
through the Slum Improvement and Resettlement (SIR) Program. This program
comprises an interrelated mix of components including slum upgrading, develop-
ment of new sites and services units, and servicing of land for commercial/
industrial uses. The approach emphasizes self-help, affordable standards,
secure tenure and community participation. The component in each city generally
involves formal specification and registration of residential lots, provision
of safe water supply, human waste disposal facilities, surface water drainage,
paved footpaths and streets, schools, clinics and loans for building materials
for house improvement. Upgrading sites in regional cities will generally be
provided with public water taps and septic tanks or pit privies except where
physical conditions require an alternative solution. Sites and services areas
will have individual lot connections. Land acquisition is well underway.
2.09      In Cebu, improvements would be provided to 26.6 ha of existing
squatter areas and 4 ha of vacant land developed for residential purposes.
Estimates indicate that there are about 27,000 households, or 165,000 persons,
living in areas which need upgrading in Cebu. During the first 3 years of the
program financed by the project, approximately 22,000 persons, or about 13% of
the total slum and squatter population would receive services. Project sites
include:



- 11 -
Alaska-Mambalang (A 9 ha squatter settlement to be upgraded plus 4 ha of
"infill" sites). The site is located 1.5 km to the south-west of the city
center with a population of 5,770 and a density of about 641 people per
hectare. The site already has one small primary school which will be expanded
under the project and will also provide health, day-care/nutrition, community
and workshop facilities. Land fill of approximately 2.2 m and drainage will
be provided together with pathways, water supply and sanitation.
Pasil/Ermita (Two adjacent squatter settlements totalling 16.6 ha). The area
has a population of 15,365 people living at a density of 926 persons per
hectare. The site is located at the edge of the sea and requires stabiliza-
tion and containment of the edge from erosion. Rubbish is still being dumped
at an adjacent site, although plans exist to use alternative sites and convert
the unsquatted on portion of the dump to community open spaces following
suitable site preparation. In the interim, a more sanitary method of dumping
on the existing site, including rolling and soiling, will be employed. Exist-
ing roads in the area would be improved and pathways and drainage channels
would provide internal circulation and access within existing blocks. Water
mains will be constructed along the lines of roads and footpaths. Pit privies
will be provided. An existing elementary school and health center will be
upgraded, and two new community centers will provide eight daycare/nutrition/
workshop facilities.
Carbon (1 ha squatter settlement). The site (population of 1,050) is adjacent
to Pasil, but at a lower elevation and subject to tidal flooding and overflow
of the adjacent stream. Many of the houses are built over water and further
study is required to determine the most appropriate drainage/filling solution.
Access, water, sanitation and community services can be supplied to suit
either condition.
2.10      In Davao, improvements would be provided to 19.6 ha of existing
squatter areas, 37 ha of vacant land developed for residential purposes, and
11.0 ha of land for commercial/industrial purposes. There are an estimated
18,000 households or 115,000 persons living in areas which need upgrading.
During the first 3 years of the program financed by the project, approximately
15,500 persons, or about 13% of the total slum and squatter population would
receive services. New sites would be provided for an additional 16,000
people. Project sites include:
New Matina (Of the total of 57.6 ha, 9.6 ha of the existing slum area will be
upgraded, 37 ha of vacant land will be developed for new residential sites and
services and 11.0 ha will be developed for commercial/industrial uses). About
3,800 persons now live there at a density of 404 persons per hectare, and
about 200 infill sites will be constructed within the area to be upgraded. In
addition, 2,493 sites and services units will be provided on the 36 ha of
adjacent land. The site is just across the river from the town center and the
city is considering use of part of the commercial/industrial site as a new
transport terminal. About 40% of the site is low-lying and will require
draining and some fill. The project includes an earth levee about 1 m high
along the river to protect both new housing and upgrading areas from off-site
flooding. Sanitation will be provided by pit privies. A new 24 classroom



- 12 -
elementary school will be built and 2 high schools will be upgraded. A health
center and 4 multi-purpose centers will provide day care/nutrition and workshop
facilities.
Piapi (10 ha of existing slum area). Piapi is the largest, most densely
populated squatter area in Davao and has been nominated by the Mayor and City
Council as a high priority area for upgrading. The full site comprises about
22 ha within which about 4,500 households reside in extremely crowded con-
ditions at a population density of 1,200 persons per ha.  The site suffers
from severe sanitation and drainage problems due to daily tidal ingress. Many
houses are built on stilts with suspended board-walk access. Because of the
high densities and technical difficulties, only 10 ha have been included in
the project. Drainage and protection works will be provided and land filling
behind these works will be carried out gradually by the residents. Access
roads, footpaths and water mains will be constructed above flood level
and sanitation will be provided in toilet blocks adjacent to the drainage
system. A new 18 classroom elementary school, a health center and two day-
care/nutrition/workshop centers will be provided.
2.11      In Cagayan de Oro, improvements would be provided to approximately
27.5 ha of existing squatter areas, 14 ha of vacant land developed for sites
and services and 5 ha of land for commercial/industrial purposes. Due in part
to its smaller size, the extent and conditions of slum areas in Cagayan de Oro
are not as severe as in Davao and Cebu. Nevertheless, the city is growing
quickly and action at this stage will enable the authorities to prevent rapid
deterioration. Estimates indicate that there are about 5,600 households or
34,200 persons in areas which need upgrading. Under the project, approxi-
mately 11,000 persons or 32% of the total slum and squatter population would
receive services. New sites would be provided for an additional 7,000 people.
Project sites include:
Macabalan (24.5 ha existing slum area to be upgraded plus 5 ha commercial/
industrial land). The site is a low lying peninsula bounded by the Cagayan
River estuary and the port. Employment in the docks and ancillary industry
has made it very attractive for squatters despite its marshy nature. Its
present population of 9,460 is growing rapidly. Five ha of developed land
will be provided for expansion of the commercial/industrial area which is
conveniently located adjacent to the expanding port area. About 120 infill
plots will be provided on vacant land adjacent to the upgrading site. Part of
the residential area has been reclaimed by residents themselves using a cheap
sawdust which will remain under the houses. Under the roads, footpaths and
permanent buildings, the sawdust will be dug out and replaced with suitable
permanent materials.   Residents will be given the choice of having the
reclamation done exclusively by contractors or through self-help at a lower
cost. Each resident will be allowed to make use of more suitable material
provided as part of the project. Storm water and household sullage will be
discharged into shallow concrete lined drainage ditches provided along each
road and footpath. Pipes with flap gates will be provided under the coastal
levees to permit the ingress and egress of flushing water. Soil conditions
are suitable for pit privies, assuming fill to new levels in certain areas.
An existing elementary school and health center will be upgraded and a day-
care/nutrition/workshop facility provided.



- 13 -
Lapasan (3 ha existing slum area to be upgraded and 4 ha new sites). The site
is close to the new port expansion area on the eastern side of the city. It
is near the new regional road and a trunk water main. The site suffers from
occasional flooding and will need drainage and some land fill. Space for
about 300 new infill plots is available. Existing community facilities will
be upgraded and a new daycare/nutrition/workshop center will be built.
Kauswagen (10 ha sites and services area). The site is a former coconut
plantation located 2 km from the town center on the west side of the Cagayan
River. Because the site is not subject to flooding and the soils are well
drained, the cost of servicing will be small. The project will provide a new
elementary school, health center, daycare/nutrition center and the upgrading
of a high school.
Employment Promotion
2.12      The Government attaches very high priority to employment promotion
in low-income areas and is experimenting with a number of approaches. In-
dustrial/commercial areas related to project sites will be developed and
serviced as part of the project. These will provide substantial employment
opportunities for the low-income residents. Complementing these developments
will be loan funds for small cottage industries, and extension agents through
the Medium and Small-scale Industries Coordinated Action Program (MASICAP) and
the Small Business Advisory Council (SBAC). MASICAP and SBAC have in the past
been directed to small and medium industries in the modern sector. Arrange-
ments are being made for these organizations to provide special assistance to
smaller enterprises in the SIR areas and in Dagat-Dagatan. Two thirds of
employment in manufacturing is in household and sole proprietorship enterprises
with assets of less than P O.1 million; a yet larger volume of employment is
provided by very small commercial and repair service activities. For these
reasons, the project also includes funds to finance an investigation into the
nature and problems of these very small enterprises, and of the appropriate
means and institutional arrangements for assisting them.l/
2.13      The employment component involves:
Industrial/Commercial Land Development: In Metro Manila 40 ha of industrial/
commercial land will be serviced at Dagat-Dagatan with employment after
development estimated by NHA's consultants at 19,000 jobs plus a further 3,500
jobs in small scattered sites. In the regional cities, 11.0 ha of industrial/
commercial land will be serviced in Davao and 5.0 in Cagayan de Oro. Employ-
ment in regional cities is estimated at about 2,000 jobs. Profits obtained
from commercial/industrial land development will be used to offset residential
charges to low-income beneficiaries and to finance program expansion.
Cottage Business and Industry Loan Fund: The project provides US$2.2 million
for loan funds designed to specifically assist small businesses and cottage
1/   This is consistent with the recommendations of the Bank's Sector Policy
Paper on Employment and Development of Small Enterprises, February 1978.



- 14 -
industries with capitalization below P 100,000. An interesting aspect of this
component is the special efforts that have been made to enlist private
commercial banks to administer the fund in the regional cities. While
this arrangement is administratively more complicated, it offers potential
advantages in broadening institutional support to small businesses and for
generally increasing knowledge of private sector banking constraints. Terms
of these loans are expected to be at not exceeding 16% for up to 7 years
together with an administration charge of 2% to offset the cost of local bank
services.  Draft agreements were brought to negotiations outlining arrange-
ments by NRA and each local government with a local financial institution
for administering these loans. The objective of this employment lending is
to demonstrate the feasibility of creating long-term employment at a signi-
ficantly reduced capital cost per job.
Technical Field Agents: Field agents will be provided under the project with
responsibility for (i) identification and review of suitable businesses, (ii)
technical assistance with project preparation and referral to various Govern-
ment training programs, and (iii) supervision of accounts. Loan supervision
will be emphasised by MASICAP teams in order to minimise arrearages, and
technical assistance will be provided by SBAC.
Loans for Building Materials Packages
2.14      Loans averaging between P 600 and P 3,000 will be made available
at 12% interest for up to 15 years to ownerbuilders, amounts loaned depending
on affordability. Average loans of P 1,500 are estimated for the minimum
service level plot in a new site, and P 1,000 for house-owners in upgrading
areas. About 60% of project beneficiaries are expected to apply for the loan
packages.
Social and Community Facilities
2.15      Educational and health facilities will be provided in the project
areas to bring the level of facilities up to the level of service existing
elsewhere in the city. Elementary schools will be built to accommodate a
90% enrollment in Dagat-Dagatan and 80% in the regional cities of 7 to 12
year olds in two shifts. Secondary schools are planned for a 65% enrollment
of ages 13 to 16 on a double shift basis. Health centers in Dagat-Dagatan
will be provided serving a population of one to 20,000-30,000. One of the
centers will include maternity and rehydration facilities to reduce pressure
on nearby facilities. Staffing and maintenance of the schools and health
centers have been agreed with the Ministry of Education and Culture and the
Ministry of Health.
2.16      Metro Manila has volunteers for health and nutrition called Barangay
Health and Nutrition Scholars and is about to develop a corps of workers
and volunteers for family planning (full-time outreach workers and barangay
volunteers). It is anticipated that various workers and volunteers in these
fields will make use of the multi-purpose community centers for the provision



- 15 -
of services or as a base for their operations. Currently, however, ways to
rationalize various cadres of partially overlapping community level workers
and volunteers in health, family planning and nutrition are under review at
the national level. A program using community level workers and volunteers
will be developed for the project area, with assistance from UNICEF.
2.17      Barangay, Daycare/Nutrition Centers (BDCN) - Multi-purpose faci-
lities will be constructed to be used: in daycare programs established by the
Ministry of Social Services (MSSD) for children of working mothers; for
nutrition sessions for malnourished children and classes on nutrition for
mothers; as workshops for training programs to assist employment of women;
and for community meetings. The centers will be operated by the MSSD in
cooperation with community organizations. Food supplements are being made
available to MSSD from bi-laterial donors.
Flood Control Equipment
2.18      Finance for equipment is included in the project to assist the
Bureau of Public Works (BPW) in improving flood control measures through
its Estero Improvement Program. The ten-year program for improving drainage
in Metro Manila, established in 1972, has suffered extensive delays in part
due to lack of suitable equipment. Improved drainage would also reduce the
danger of flooding to the approximately 8,000 families, mostly lower income,
who currently live in flood prone areas. A consultant report reviewing this
program has recommended about US$2 million of specialized dredging and related
equipment be provided to augment equipment now operated by BPW and equipment
received under bilateral arrangements with the Japanese Government. This
equipment includes amphibious mini-dredgers and push barges, cranes, a truck-
tractor trailer, survey boats, pumps and shop equipment for maintenance.
Progress in implementing the flood control master plan would be reported to
the Bank by BPW annually.
Technical Assistance and Training
2.19      A package of technical assistance has been developed to support
the national agencies and the local governments that are involved in planning
and implementing the Government's new approach to urban shelter. This package
involves support to both policy formation and project execution while estab-
lishing training programs to enhance local capacity.  Because the Government's
approach to shelter involves new programs, the technical assistance component
is particularly important to the early establishment of sound operational pro-
cedures.  To the maximum extent possible, the employment of local consultants
would be encouraged. Depending on the extent that local consultants are
available, approximately 475 man-months of foreign technical assistance and
534 man-months of local assistance would be employed at an average total
man-month cost of US$8,100 and 3,500 respectively. The technical assistance
component includes the following items:
(a) Program Advisors: Approximately 96 man-months of support
to assist NHA in developing policy guidelines supporting
its housing efforts and developing financial and engineer-
ing standards for NHA projects;



- 16 -
(b) Regional City Supervisory Consultants: Approximately
120 man-months of technical support over a 2-year
period to assist NHA in supervising SIR projects to
be implemented in Cebu, Davao and Cagayan de Oro.
Assistance would be in the form of site planning,
engineering design, procurement, financial audit and
contract supervision.
(c) Dagat-Dagatan Project Management: Approximately 156
man-months of assistance in construction management,
engineering design and training over a 3-year period for
implementation of Dagat-Dagatan component.                                       s
(d) Metro Manila Slum Improvement: Approximately 54 man-
months of assistance for design and engineering sup-
port to the Zonal Improvement Program of Metro Manila.
(e) Feasibility Studies: Approximately 40 man-months of
technical assistance for feasibility studies to the
National Housing Authority for programs in regional
cities.
(f) Training: Approximately 72 man-months of consultant
support to assist in the establishment of a training
office for NHA and for project monitoring and evaluation.
Also, 5 man-years of fellowships will be funded for
advanced formal training of NHA staff in planning,
engineering and finance. In addition, field trips for
5 senior officials will be arranged to enable NHA staff
members to observe similar on-going projects in neighboring
countries.
To NEDA:
(a) Regional City Program Support: Approximately 108 man-
months of physical planning and financial planning support
over an 18-month period to the Metro Cebu Development Project
and to the cities of Davao and Cagayan de Oro to assist in
(i) formulation, evaluation and review of development
programs and project proposals and (ii) improving the
delivery system of municipal services especially to low-
income areas.
(b) Urban Regional Feasibility Studies: Approximately 54 man-
months of assistance will be provided to NEDA to conduct
feasibility studies of urban/regional projects, and for the
preparation of broadly focused regional program plans.
(c) National Small-Scale Business Program Analysis:
Approximately 45 man-months for in-depth review and
assessment of small-scale business programs and needs.



- 17 -
To MHS:
(a) Approximately 69 man months of policy planning and program
development support over a period of two years.
To MMC and M11PWTC:
(a) Training and Staff Development: Funds to MMC and MPWTC
for staff training and for monitoring the effectiveness
of various infrastructure programs.
(b) Flood Control Master Plan: Approximately 183 man-months
of assistance to MPWTC for updating the Metro Manila
Flood Control Master Plan.
C. Cost Estimates
2.20      Total project costs are estimated at P 517.70 million ($69.94
million equivalent) of which approximately P 236.86 million ($32.00 million
equivalent) is the foreign exchange requirement. Cost estimates are based on
final engineering designs which are available for major infrastructure in the
Dagat-Dagatan component in Metro Manila and preliminary engineering designs
for one site in each regional city. Cost estimates for other sites are
based on extrapolation of unit prices. Physical contingencies are included
at 10% for Dagat-Dagatan and 15% for components in the regional cities except
for land acquisition costs, building materials and small business loans,
consulting and advisory services and the flood control equipment for which no
physical contingency is required.  Price contingencies averaging 21% of
project costs, excluding loans, are based on current estimates of 7-1/2% per
year for local costs and for foreigncosts, 8% reducing to 7% for civil works
and 7% reducing to 6% for equipment projected from the project implementation
schedule.
Unit Costs
2.21      The table below shows a breakdown of unit costs for Dagat-Dagatan
and for new sites and upgraded sites in the regional cities. The costs of
on-site infrastructure at Dagat-Dagatan are higher than in the regional cities
since major drainage and sewerage works are involved.



- 18 -
Residential Unit Cost US$.-
Site                             Capita     Household          Plot         Ha
Dagat-Dagatan /2
Land and reclamation               77            515            773        74,172
On-site development /4            165          1,094          1,642       157,639
Community facilities               27            183            276        26,465
Total                         269         1,792          2,691       258,276
Regional Cities, Sites
and Services
Land and reclamation               14             95            114         8,703
On-site development /4            120            807            968        73,864
Community facilities               21            143            172        13,135
Total                         155          1,045          1,254       95,702
Regional Cities Upgrading /3
Land and reclamation               27            185            233        18,911
On-site development /4             37            252            316        25,703
Community facilities               10             68             85         6,944
Total                          74            505            634       51,558
/1   Includes physical contingencies, design and supervision.
77   Based on total resident area of 214 ha.
/3   Includes new infill sites in upgrading areas but excludes the possible
additional cost of landfil by contract at Macabalan.
/4   Includes drainage and site preparation, roads and footpaths, water
supply, sanitation and street lighting. At Dagat-Dagatan, also includes
major drainage and oxidation ponds.



- 19 -
SECOND PHILIPPINES URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table II.1:   PROJECT SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES
P Millions                        US$ Million                    % of Foreign
Local    Foreign    Total       Local   Foreign    Total              Exchange
A. DAGAT DAGATAN
Infrastructure                        98.53      77.42   175.95        13.32    10.46    23.78             44
Core Housing                           16.84      5.61    22.45         2.27      0.76      3.03           25
Building Materials Loans                5.83       1.95     7.78        0.79      0.26      1.05            25
Conmnunity Facilities                  1A.61       9.07    22.68         1.84     1.22      3.06           40
Sub-total                      134.81      94.05   228,86        18,22    12.70    30.92
B.  CEBU
Land & Reclamation                      3.40       2.26     5.66        0.45      0.31      0.76           40
Infrastructure                         2.31       1.81      4.12        0.32      0.24      0.56           44
Core Housing                           0,45.      0.15      0.60        0.06      0.02      0.08           25
Building Materials Loans                1.09       0.36     1.45        0.15      0.05      0.20           25
Community Facilities                    1.01      0.44      1.45        0.14      0.06      0.20           30
Sub-total                        8.25       5.02    13.27         1.12     0.68      1.80
C. CAGAYAN DE ORO
Land & Reclamation                     12.41       8.27    20.68        1.67      1.12      2.79           40
Infrastructure                         8.29       6.52    14.81         1.12      0.88      2.00           44
Core Housing                            1.57      0.52      2.09        0.21      0.07      0.28           25
Building Materials Loans                1.27       0.43     1.70        0.17      0.06      0.23           25
Community Facilities                    1.36      0.59      1.95        0.18      0.08      0.26           30
Sub-total                       24.90      16.33    41.23        3.35      2.21      5.56
D.  DAVAO
Land & Reclamation                      0.85      0.56      1.41        0.12      0.07      0.19           40
Infrastructure                        15.52      12.20    27.72         2.09      1.65      3.74           44
Core Housing                            3.87      1.29      5.16        0.53      0.17      0.70           25
Building Materials Loans                2.21       0.74     2.95        0,30      0.10      0.40           25
Community Facilities                    2.18      0.93      3.11        0.29      0.13      0.42           30
Sub-total                       24.63      15.72    40.35         3.33      2.12     5.45
E.  SMALL BUSINESS LOANS                       8.00       8.00    16.00         1.08      1.08      2.16           50
F.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING         13.84      28.48    42.32         1.87      3.85     5.72            67
G.  FLOOD CONTROL EQUIPMENT                     -        14.00    14.00          -        1.89      1.89          100
H. CONTINGENCIES
Physical                               17.20     14.34    31.54         2.32      1.94      4.26           46
Price                                 49.21      40.92    90.13         6.65      5.53    12.18            45
TOTAL                          280.84    236.86   517.70         37.94    32.00    69.94             46



- 20 -
D. Financing Plan
2.22      The proposed Bank loan of US$32 million equivalent would finance
the full foreign exchange costs. The loan would be made to the Government,
who would bear the foreign exchange risk, for a term of 20 years including
a 5-year grace period at 7.35% interest. NHA and other agencies involved
will be exempt from taxation on project-related expenditures.
2.23      Of the total proceeds of the loan, approximately US$26.24 millions
equivalent would be on-lent to NHA under a subsidiary loan agreement at the
same terms as the Bank loan to finance project construction works and tech-
nical assistance, and to open up lines of credit for house materials and small
business/cottage industry loans. US$1.19 millions equivalent would be allo-
cated to NEDA, MMC and MHS to finance technical assistance. US$4.57 millions
equivalent would be allocated to MPWTC for procurement of flood control
equipment and master plan studies and for major infrastructure including sea
defense works. The project financing plan is tabulated below.
2.24      Funds for the regional cities SIR Program will be passed on to each
city on the basis of forecast construction expenditures as 25-year loans 1/ at
an interest rate estimated at 11%, corresponding to NHA's average prevailing
borrowing costs, together with a spread sufficient to cover allocable adminis-
trative costs. Financial surpluses and cash flow generated from the lease and
sale of developed residential and industrial/commercial land would accrue to
each city and NRA proportional to the initial equity contributions and would
be available to extend the program into other areas within each city.
2.25      Funds to financial intermediaries for programs of small business
loans would be passed on at an interest rate currently estimated at 10% to
provide an adequate spread to cover administrative costs and bad debts, etc.
NRA would enter into an agreement satisfactory to the Bank with a financial
institution to be nominated by the local jurisdiction to administer these loan
programs.
2.26      Retroactive financing not exceeding US$0.7 million is recommended
for expenditures incurred from February 1, 1978, on consultant design services
and on civil works.
1/   Including a 3-year grace period.



- 21 -
Project Financing Plan (1978-1982)
(P millions)
Dagat-       Cagayan          Cebu            Davao           Others         Total
Dagatan       De Oro                             _
Project Outlays
SIR Operations
w                   ~~~~~~~1./
Slum Improvement                                    16.07          11.47            5.60                          33.14
Sites and Services                  162.28           8.42                          27.38                         198.08
Commercial/Industrial Land            58.90          3.90                           6.75                          69.55
Other Agencies
Infrastructure                       34.88           5.23           1.43            6.98                          48.52
Community Facilities                  30.40          2.70           1.92            4.22                          39.24
Utility Facilities                    13.32           1.13          0.58            1.14                          16.17
Building Materials Loans                                                                           13.88          13.88
Small BusinesE Loans          2/                                                                   16.00          16.00
Additional Reclamation Costs -                                                                     16.88          16.88
Flood Control Equipment                                                                                22.37          22,37
Technical Assistance                                                                                   43.87          43.87
SUB-TOTAL                           299.78          37.45          15.40           52.07          113.00         517.70
Debt Service and Administration 31        17.92           8.99          5.99            8.71                          61.61
Surplus on Operations -4                  35.78          0.96           0.55            0.80                          38.09
373.48         47.40          21.94           61.58         l13.00          617.40
Financed By
Beneficiary Charges -/               187.51         16.99           4.18           25.95                         234.63
Budget Appropriations
a) National Agencies
(i) BPW                        24.28           3.53                          5.55                          33.36
(ii) MWSS                       13.59                                                                       13.59
(iii) Others                     42.10           1.13          0.58            1.29            9.06          54,16
b) City 6/                                        1.75           1.18            1.94                          4.87
Loans - IBRD            )           1o6.00          24.00          16.00           26.85          163.94        276.79
NRA Bond Issues)
373.48         47.40          21.94           61.58          113.06        617.40
1/ Includes infil sites and services
2/ Additional provision for reclamation by contract at Cagayan de Oro. Residents are expected to
choose a low cost self-help method in which case the funds would be used to extend the program to additional sites.
3/ Estimates of debt service costs based on on-lending terms of 11%, 20 year loans including 3 years grace.
4/ Results primarily from marketing of industrial/commercial land.
5/ Net of arrearages at 15% of gross revenues for first 3 vears, 12Z for next 2 years, and R% thereafter.
6/ Represents debt service on loans for costs allocated to city budgets.



- 22 -
III. BORROWING AND EXECUTING AGENCIES
A. Project Organization and Management
General Responsibilities
3.01      The National Housing Authority (NHA) will execute the Dagat-Dagatan
component of the project. Responsibility for executing the Slum Improvement
component in the regional cities, lies with the local governments of Cebu,
Davao and Cagayan de Oro under the supervision of the NRA.  The Bureau of
Public Works (BPW) of the Ministry of Public Works Transportation and Com-
munication (MPWTC) will procure flood control equipment and update the Metro
Manila Flood Control Master Plan.
SIR Program
3.02      The NHA is responsible for policy formulation and coordination of
the national Slum Improvement and Resettlement (SIR) Program and provides
loan funds to local governments for program implementation. Local govern-
ments are responsible for the planning of individual slum improvement proj-
ects within the program, and for detailed design and contract supervision in
their respective cities. Operations in regional cities will be supervised
by the NHA which would approve designs and contract documents and review
implementation.
3.03      In each regional city, SIR Program Offices have been established
under the direction of a program manager responsible directly to the Mayor.
In order to support the local effort, NHA has engaged consultants to assist
program planning and project design and has provided financial assistance to
local governments to hire the additional staff required for this new program.
Each program office will maintain a project office on each site to supervise
the construction of physical works, administer collection of lease payments
and repayments of loans for plot purchase, building materials and small busi-
nesses, provide on-site technical assistance for self-help construction and
coordinate and supervise business support services.
3.04      SIR units in all three regional cities have sufficient staff and
adequate technical capacity for the present initial phase of program planning
and design but will continue to rely on technical supervision by the resident
consultant appointed by NHA. In Davao, 10 technical and 25 support staff
have been appointed under the direction of the program manager who is an ex-
perienced urban planner. After a comparatively slow start, Cebu has appointed
7 technical and 6 support staff under the direction of a program manager who
is an experienced engineer. Cagayan de Oro has appointed a local consulting
team initially comprising 5 full-time and 3 part-time technical staff together
with support staff under the full-time direction of a well qualified program
manager who is a financial analyst. The city proposes to directly employ
the same team for project execution and retain the consultant program manager.



- 23 -
3.05      Assurances were received at negotiations that staff in regional
cities will be augmented as the program proceeds and that provision of
funds for adequate staffing will be made in municipal budgets. Agreement was
also reached that a project manager and a works engineer for each site would
be appointed prior to tendering the first contract for any site. NHA's
advisory consultant will review staffing of the regional city SIR units every
6 months.
3.06      NHA regional teams from headquarters in Manila, have been assisting
with technical coordination and supervision matters on an intermittent basis.
The appointment by NHA of a consultant as resident adviser for each city
has proven effective in program coordination and in developing detailed
project designs. This consultant support to the regional cities would be
extended over a period of two years. Supporting the three resident advisors
would be a consultant financial analyst and a consultant program planning
analyst to work in all three cities. Technical assistance is included in the
project for this purpose. In addition, NHA will attach, from its staff, an
architect/planner or an engineer to each regional city SIR unit together with
one additional staff member to work with each Regional City SIR program office
on a full-time basis. Local SIR staff will also qualify for attendance at the
training office to be established by NHA (see para 3.15).
Dagat-Dagatan Project
3.07      A project office to implement the Dagat-Dagatan component of the
project is being formed within the NHA, staffed in part with technical per-
sonnel from the team responsible for design and feasibility work. The or-
ganizational structure for the Dagat-Dagatan Project Office includes depart-
ments of Construction, Estate Management and Administration. NHA has been
actively filling staff positions and agreement was received at negotiations
that the following positions have been filled: senior design engineer, site
design engineer, and three field engineers and that other key appointments would
be made by January 15, 1979.
3.08      A construction management contract has been signed, and the con-
struction division is already headed by a qualified consultant engineer
with many years experience of managing large contracts. The department
is being organized into six functional divisions: architecture, engineer-
ing design, construction supervision, contract management and administra-
tion, coordination and training.  In order to improve design skills and
supervision and management of construction projects, NBA proposes, as part
of its training program, to attach trainees to the staff of the construction
department on a one-to-one basis from division head to professional level.
The estate management department will be organized into units responsible
for lot sales and rental, commercial property, community relations, economic
development programs, land transfer and legal matters. Training programs
will be necessary to develop these skills. NBA would retain responsibility
for maintenance of project facilities until the site is transferred to a
municipal jurisdiction. A finance department would be set up to prepare
project budgets, process payments to contractors, manage revenues from the



- 24 -
lease and sale of developed lots, and administer the project accounting
and financial control systems. NHA confirmation was received at negotia-
tions that the construction management contract would be maintained and that
adequate budgetary provision will be made for full staffing of the project
office.
3.09      The Dagat-Dagatan Project Office of NHA and the SIR Program Offices
in the regional cities will be required to maintain separate project accounts
and make arrangements acceptable to the Bank for annual financial and tech-
nical audit. An appropriate project accounting and financial control system
has been developed by NHA with consultant assistance. Responsibility for
supervising financial control will rest with the program manager in each
city. Separate bank accounts will be operated for the small business and
building materials loans programs by a local financial institution who will
prepare regular financial statements and annual final accounts.
Inter-Agency Coordination
3.10      In view of the number of agencies responsible for planning, coordi-
nation, funding and operating project components, inter-agency coordination
will be an important feature of project execution. To ensure proper coordi-
nation of drainage and other infrastructure activities in the Dagat-Dagatan
area, an Inter-Agency Project Implementation Coordination Staff (IPICS)
has been established including NHA, BPW, MPWTC and NHA's consultants.  This
committee meets weekly to coordinate activities. Similar committees have
been established on a less formal basis in the regional cities. Steering
committees have also been organized to review the provision of health and
education facilities under the project. These committees are responsible
for detailing institutional relationships, formulating acceptable design
standards, and reviewing budgets for staffs and programs. UNICEF is providing
substantial assistance in this regard to the project in the Regional cities.
For implementation of economic support programs, the NHA and local SIR units
have drafted inter-agency agreements with MASICAP, SBAC and the local finan-
cial intermediaries which were reviewed at negotiations.
B. National Housing Authority
3.11      NHA was established by Presidential Decree in 1975 to consolidate
the planning, programming and implementation of a broad range of housing
policies and programs. Sector responsibilities had previously been dis-
persed among six different agencies. NHA's Charter (Presidential Decree
757) provides basic policy directives and stipulates general limits to NRA's
jurisdiction. Subsequent decrees and Letters of Instruction have expanded
NHA's program responsibilities, most recently in the field of slum upgrading.
Organization and Management
3.12      NHA is governed by a Board of Directors comprised of the General
Manager of the Authority; the Minister of Human Settlements (Chairman); the



- 25 -
Minister of Public Works Transportation and Communications; the Director,
National Economic and Development Authority; the Minister of Finance; the
Minister of Labor, and the Minister of Industry. The General Manager is
appointed by the President.
3.13      During the past year NHA's responsibilities have risen sharply as
its programs have achieved increased popular and political support. Since
the programs being developed are major policy initiatives, and are new for
the country, they have required a great deal of attention by key executive
staff. Serious strains have been placed on the staff that have affected
the NHA's ability to keep up with day-to-day responsibilities. While the
steps outlined in the previous section related to project office staffing
should ensure satisfactory implementation of the works financed under the
project, the NRA, with the assistance of its advisory consultants, has out-
lined a number of important additional measures to improve the operations
of the organization as a whole. These steps involve organizational adjust-
ments, a special effort in staffing, training and use of consultants, crea-
tion of a new position for financial management, and developing procedures
for the preparation of more realistic and coordinated multi-year program
plans with associated staffing and financial plans.
3.14      Organization - NRA's previous management structure (Chart 18948)
comprises 14 office and departmental heads. Each of these offices report
directly and independently to the General Manager. This organization
was adopted in accordance with the intention of the General
Manager to closely and directly supervise each department until the
activities of the Authority had stabilized. It is recognized, however,
that staffing adjustments are needed to broaden the middle-management base
and to expand the technical capacity for program review, financial development
and project management. One long term option being considered would involve
consolidating all activities under the three major functions of: (i) Forward
Programming and Evaluation, (ii) Project Development and Implementation
and (iii) Administration. These would form three major directorates under the
General Manager. Such a structure would open up new positions of responsi-
bility at the Assistant General Manager level and below and would facilitate
development of middle-level management staff. Further consideration and
consultation are required before such a change in structure can take effect.
In the interim, NHA has therefore reorganized its key operational
departments as of November 1978 along lines more related to client needs and
has established departments of:  Local Government Projects; Private Sector
Projects; and NBA Construction Management. This organization would improve
utilization of staff who were scattered in the Planning and Develpoment
Office, the Project Implementation Department and the Slum Improvement and
Resettlement Department. These proposals would inter alia strengthen NBA's
capacity for slum improvement projects. NRA will also conduct an overall
review of its staff development policies and develop by August 30, 1979 with
consultant assistance, a program for strengthening middle and senior manage-
ment level positions.
3.15      Staffing, Training and Use of Consultants - Difficulties in staff-
ing, training and recruitment have arisen out of low government salary scales



- 26 -
which affect new agencies more severely than established agencies. Private
sector salaries for engineers with even limited experience are two to three
times the rates that NHA can pay. As a result, NHA is hiring almost exclu-
sively junior people with little or no experience. Although many of these
individuals are very bright and energetic, they lack the experience and
training required by NHA's programs. Furthermore, being a new organization,
NHA does not have the reservoir of seasoned middle-level staff to train less
experienced personnel. Normal recruitment plans may not, therefore, provide
sufficient experienced staff to meet NHA's needs for some years into the
future. A recent redefinition of job descriptions has provided some improve-
ments in average salary levels which should ease this problem somewhat. In
addition, two major undertakings in training and consultant support have
been recommended.
(a) Establishment of Training Office - In order to pro-
vide training to the recent graduates hired by NHA
in specific operational areas, a training office will
be established within NHA. This office would provide
short courses to train staff in: site planning and
layout design; municipal engineering; project super-
vision; procurement; real estate marketing; financial
analysis; project planning; management and review;
and planning for social services provision, etc. The
office would combine lectures with practical problem-
solving associated with ongoing projects. NHA's
consultants will develop the details of this pro-
posal which would be brought to negotiations,
when agreement would be sought on the timetable
for establishment of the training office.
(b) Expanded Use of Consultants - The training program
would provide long-term relief. However, in the
meantime, given the size of NHA's programs and
the fact that acceleration of a number of these
programs has been "mandated," adequate design, control and
supervision will require heavy reliance on consultant
support. For a period of years, therefore, NHA should
employ consultants to help in: policy and program devel-
opment; support to new and innovative projects such
as ZIP and SIR, which have received strong political
support; and support in feasibility studies and design.
Technical assistance for this purpose is included in the
project.
3.16      Financial Management - Another measure to be implemented involves
the designation of a position within NHA to assist in external financial
relations and development of new sources of finance. This position would be
at a senior level, carrying at least departmental head rank, and would be
established with executive and operational responsibility for: planning new
financial resources; negotiations on bond issues; representation on technical



- 27 -
committees and consultative bodies concerned with housing finance; and super-
vising financial control systems. Assurances were received at negotiations
that the position would be filled by an officer with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Bank by January 31, 1978.
Program Planning
3.17      Overall program analyses has hitherto been conducted through the
preparation of 5 and 10 year program plans. However, these plans provided
only general targets and did not satisfactorily reflect either financial
resources limitations or staffing availability. The plan prepared for
1978-82 was very ambitious in targeting production at a total 280,000 units
over the 5-year period at a cost of P 6.66 billion (US$900 million equiva-
lent). In order to facilitate the programming of NHA's activities on a more
rational basis, a planning manual has recently been developed with consultant
assistance. This manual outlines detailed procedures for estimating financial
requirements and sources, as well as manpower requirement's of projects at
each stage of the project cycle by each NRA department involved and provides
the basis for long-term financing from bond issues and for earmarking appro-
priations from national agencies. NHA's draft program and financial plans
will be routinely reviewed by an Inter-Agency Technical Committee recently
established under the chairmanship of NEDA which will focus especially on
NHA's proposed borrowing program. A revised program, staffing and financial
plan, based on this planning manual has been approved by NHA's board for
the 4-year period 1978-81 involving investments amounting to P 3.4 billion
(US$459 million) compared to P 4.70 billion included for the same period
in the present 5-year NEDA plan. This revised program plan differentiates
between projects already defined and under preparation, amounting to 2.5
billion (US$338 million equivalent); and new projects yet to be identified
amounting to a further P 850 million.



- 28 -
/1
NHA - Program Budget P Million
Sources of Funds                          1978    1979   1980  1981    Total
Balances                                    30      10     45     40      125
Capitalization                             100    375    375    200    1050
Bond Issues /2                              -       50    125    175      350
Foreign Loans /3                            40      65    120    150      375
Budgetary Appropriations                   175      90     75     75      415
Corporate Receipts /4                       35     80    120    175       410
380    670    860    815    2725
Less: Application of Funds
Administration, working
capital debt and service             60     90    110    150      410
Funds Availabile for Program
Outlays                                  320    580    750    665    2315
Projects Identified                        320    695    995    535    2545
Unidentified                       -      -      -      850     850
Additional Funds Required                  -0-    115    245    720   11080
Source: NHA and Mission estimates.
/1   1978 prices.
/2   Estimates for issues to SSS initially.
/3   Including IBRD loan for NHA portion of first and second urban loan and
assuming international finance available for Zonal Improvement Program.
/4   Includes surplus revenues from Industrial/Commercial land at
Dagat-Dagatan.
3.18      NHA proposes to update this program plan on an annual basis and
further modifications are likely to be made as experience is gained in
project design and execution and in mobilizing additional funding. However,
as a result of recent increases in NHA's capitalization and provided agree-
ment can be reached on bond issues to SSS, resources available to NHA would
provide almost full funding for projects already defined and under prepara-
tion. A favorable climate now exists for bond issues and for mobilizing
additional funding sources. Assurances.were received at negotiations that the
Bank would be informed of any material changes.
Financial Position
3.19      At the time NHA was established, accounts consolidating the finan-
cial position of the preceeding agencies were not available. With con-
sultant assistance, consolidated accounts have now been prepared. NHA'S
assets and liabilities as of December 31, 1977, show total government equity
holdings of P 524 million, including P 127 millions paid in capital. Short
terms deposits and securities amounted to P 140 million compared to current
liabilities of P 104 million. Properties available for sale or investment,



- 29 -
or under construction, were valued at P 270 million. However, the high level
of liquidity on that date, attributable to a slower than expected pace in
implementation due primarily to staff constraints, has decrease markedly
during the current fiscal year.
3.20      In establishing NRA, the government guaranteed its capitalization
at P 500 million and prescribed that particular programs such as SIR and PNB
(low cost conventional housing) are to be financed from long-term bond issues
to government and private sector social security systems (GSIS and SSS) and
from budgetary appropriations from other national agencies. GSIS and SSS
were initially reluctant to agree to new issues because of the low yield
based on terms originally proposed by NHA, and because the interest charged
to beneficiaries is higher than that presently charged on their own housing
loans. Moreover, because of the lack of provision in the budgets of national
agencies, NHA has funded major infrastructure works and community facilities
on their behalf. In recognition of the urgent need for improved funding
arrangements as a pre-requisite of program formulation, the Government retro-
actively increased NHA's capitalization fourfold to P 2 billion, to be
subscribed at P 200 million annually together with adjustments for previous
years, and created a national housing fund, under NHA control, with con-
tributions from national agencies. In addition, recent discussions with
financial institutions indicates a favorable climate for NHA bonds and dis-
cussions are now proceeding with SSS and other financial institutions over the
timing and terms of individual issues. As a result of the foregoing, funding
arrangements have now been established to support an NHA program of meaningful
dimensions.
C. Local Government
3.21      The structure of local government in the Philippines comprises
regional, provincial and municipal authorities, except in metropolitan areas
where city governments operate and maintain all municipal services. Tech-
nical, administrative and fiscal capacity for development varies consider-
ably among authorities. Cities have a more buoyant revenue base than either
provinces or municipalities, and are generally better able to attract expe-
rienced staff. Administrative and fiscal reforms initiated in recent years
have considerably improved the funding of local services. The Department of
Local Government and Community Development is training senior personnel and
helping upgrade organization and development planning.
3.22      Budget support from the national government represents about 23%
of local government revenues. Close supervision of local fiscal management
is therefore maintained by government through the Ministry of Finance. Local
governments are expected to operate to balanced budgets and to maintain
financial reserves at an acceptable level. 1/ Administrative and fiscal
1/ Prescribed at 2% of regular current revenues including Government budget
support.



- 30 -
reforms initiated by the government have helped to stabilize the fiscal
position in the regional cities included in the project. Rapidly in-
creasing revenues in these cities have encouraged real per capita growth
in service expenditures. In Cagayan de Oro, revenue growth has also been
adequate to support an increasing proportion of an expanding capital works
program whereas, in Davao and Cebu, increasing governmental financial sup-
port has been provided in accordance with the established revenue sharing
formula.  Davao and Cagayan de Oro have substantial financial reserves
whereas Cebu has been able to maintain only the statutory minimum required.
For the period to 1982 slower revenue growth is likely however and the main-
tenance of effective fiscal management will therefore be of paramount
importance if service standards are not to deteriorate.  Project cash flow
estimates indicate that a financial surplus is likely to accrue in each
project city (see para. 6.08).  Moreover, additional tax revenues are expected
to exceed incremental service costs incurred as a result of the project.
Model project accounting and financial control systems have been developed by
NHA, with consultant assistance, and are presently being reviewed by the
Commission on Audit (COA) for installation and operation in each project
city. These systems incorporate program and project budgeting and would
institute financial performance reporting to management in the SIR units,
city mayors and other concerned municipal officers and to NHA management.
COA is presently developing, with consultant assistance, comprehensive audit
programs which would be designed to review the economic efficiency of local
government services and programs.
3.23      The investment requirements of the proposed project are significant
in relation to existing capital works programs in these cities particularly
in Cagayan de Oro and Davao, and funds would in large part be provided by
NHA loans. The borrowing capacity of local governments is limited by a debt
ceiling established for each authority on the basis of the assessed value of
taxable property. The present borrowing capacity in relation to existing
debt, in Cagayan de Oro is inadequate, under present procedures, to accom-
modate project requirements. The implementation schedule for the component
in the city has therefore been extended to enable project related debt to
accumulate at an acceptable rate. Government is considering this issue
and has instructed COA to prescribe a new formula for determining reasonable
borrowing capacity of local governments. However, this review relates to
broader questions of local government finance and the government has confirmed
that the existing procedures will continue to apply in the interim.  Indi-
vidual agreements between NRA and each local government specify the equity
participation by the local government and the formula for distributing
project surpluses etc. between NHA and the local government.
3.24      Development planning is not yet well established at the city level.
Moreover, local government salary scales have effectively hindered cities
from recruiting technicians experienced in physical or financial/economic
planning and programming. Technical assistance is included in the proposed
project for each regional city, to provide physical and financial planning
assistance in metropolitan-wide capital improvements planning, especially
for programs directed toward improving access to municipal services by low-
income groups.



- 31 -
IV. DESIGN STANDARDS AND PROJECT SPECIFICATIONS
4.01      Standards and guidelines were developed by NHA's consultant's
(Table IV.1) and are sufficiently flexible to allow for variations in physical
site conditions, population characteristics such as density and optional
service level standards in different communities. In existing slums the
residents will be involved continuously in the planning process. They will
*       choose from service level options and street and footpath layout alternatives.
In new sites and services areas in the regional cities the design standards
are based in part on normal land sub-division regulations at the minimum level
for low-cost housing development.
Sites and Services
4.02      A wide range of plot types and on-plot development options will be
provided to encourage a good social mix, opportunities for renting, and for
diffe ential pricing. The average plot size is smaller in Dagat-Dagatan
(72 m ) than for the regional cities (100 m ). The options to be available
in Dagat-Dagatan are: (a) service connection; (b) service connection plus
sanitary core; (c) service connection plus sanitary core plus shared firewall;
(d) service connection, sanitary core plus shared firewall, post and slab;
(e) shell house; and (f) demonstration unit. In the regional cities, the
sites and services lot options will range between (a) and (c) developments.
4.03      Flexible facility planning and layout standards have been developed
for the basic infrastructure services. Road layouts in the regional cities
are planned on a 150m grid and in Dagat-Dagatan on a 250m grid but access
used by emergency service vehicles is provided on 140m grid. Drainage and
water reticulation have been planned on the same grids for optimum efficiency.
Layout designs within residential areas are such that the net land utilization
for residential, market and small business lots is expected to account for
65% to 70% of the gross residential area, circulation about 15% and open
space and community facilities, about 17%. In the large commercial/industrial
areas, circulation will absorb about 7-10% of the site space. To ensure
that a low cost approach is maintained, assurances were received at negotia-
tions that no buildings will be constructed by NHA or local governments on
commercial/industrial sites within project areas without prior consultation
with the Bank.
Slum Upgrading
4.04      The design objective is to fit infrastructure and social facilities
into the existing settlement configuration without demolition of dwellings.
Densities in project sites range from 500 to 1,600 persons per hectare and
in the areas with densities above 1,200 per hectare, a minimum provision of
access for emergency service vehicles may require street construction involv-
ing some relocation. Where this occurs, a planning target of under 5% reloca-
tion and a maximum of 10% has been agreed with NHA and the local governments.
Agreement has also been reached that displaced families will be relocated in



- 32 -
adjacent locations, and in no case further than 2 km from their existing
location. Site designs take existing infrastructure into account and the
layout of circulation is designed to follow natural drainage channels to
minimize land take and future maintenance. Final layout and servicing will
be decided in conjunction with the community.
4.05      In upgrading areas two levels of service are identified, a basic
level and a desired level. The basic level indicates a minimum servicing
level which will improve public health and safety and which will be very low
cost and affordable by all except the destitute. The "desired" level of
servicing indicates a similar improvement in public health and safety but
includes the introduction of a measure of convenience into the designs for
which an extra price must be paid (see Table T3). In site and service
projects the "desired" level of service has been chosen as the basis of
design.
Table IV-1: RANGE OF PLOT TYPES IN DAGAT-DAGATAN
Plot     % of    No. of                      % of Plots with Options
Size     Plots   Plots           A        B         C         D         E        F
2
48m2    10%        860          -        -         80        10        91
60 m     40%    3,440           -        -         90         5       4         1
72 m2    20%    1,720           -        -         80        10       9         1
84 m2    10%       860          -         75       24         -       -1
98 m2    10%       860          99       -         -          -       -
112 m   )
2  )  8%       688         100
120 m2 )
121 m2 to
150 m      2%       172         100
Total    100%    8,600
Community Facilities
4.06      The Barangay Day-Care Nutrition (BDCN) Centers Vave four 48  2
multi-use spaces and two open air-meeting spaces of 200 m . Also 96 m  are
allowed for toilets, storage, 2 kitchens and 4 offices. The community
may enc ose the Barangay meeting space at a later date. A site area of
2,000 m will accommodate these functions with room for expansion.  The build-
ing will be a simple concrete hollow block structure, with plain cement floor



- 33 -
slab, and corrugated galvanized iron sheet roof. Interior sliding partitions
between the multi-use spaces can be made of bamboo mat or a similar light-
weight material. The building cost of-P 220,000 includes contingencies of
20% each for site development and P 55,000 for basketball courts.  The2
serviced sites for markets will comprise a drained paved area of 324 m  with
4 standpipes.  The total cost per site is estimated at P 40,000.  The nea
ele entary and secondary school classrooms based on 40 students per 48 m -
5 m  classroom will be constructed of an improved Bagong Lipunan type build-
ing.  The cost of P 825 per square meter includes the cost of all support
facilities for the school (circulation, toilets, and administration) plus a
6% contingency for special foundations. The new health centers will be
constructed of hollow concrete block with plain cement walls and floors and
corrugated galvanized iron roof. A building cost of P 375,000 for the 300 m
unit, includes a 20% site development cost and a 20% contingency for special
foundations. Also included in this cost is P 57,000 for equipment. In the
regional cities the Bagong Lipunan type building will be constructed at a cost
of P 237,000 which includes site development, special foundations and equip-
ment. Service levels and design standards for health, education and community
facilities were discussed and agreed with the relevant agencies during ap-
praisal. Table IV-2 lists all facilities to be provided by site. The project
will finance buildings and equipment.
Table IV-2: DISTRIBUTION OF COMMUNITY FACILITIES
BDCN Centers
Primary Schools     Secondary Schools         Barangay  Number of
Nimber    Number    Number     Number           Multi-  Multi-    Number
Site  Classrooms  Schools  Classrooms  Schools  Health Centers. purpose  Use  of  Markets
new  upgr.  new  upgr.  new  upgr.    new  upgr.    new  upgr.  Spaces  Spaces    Centers
Manila14                                                           27          3
Dagat Dagatan  170  -  5  -    72    -    2        2     2   14    28     7    3
/Ermta         8    _    1       _    _    _    _       1    _     8    2
Pa,il ~    -
Alaska     12   _    _    1    _     _    _    _   1     -    -     4    1
CaRasan de Oro
Macabalan  -    6    _    1    _     _    _    _   _     1    -     4    1
Lapasan    -    6    -    1    -     -    -    -   -     -    -     4    1
Kauswagen  16   -    1               12   -    1   1     -    -     4    1
Davao
TewMatina  24   _    1         _    12   -    2    1     -   -     16    4
Piapi      18   -    1    -     -      -    -  -   -     1    -     8    2
TOTAL     240  20    8    4    72    12   2    3   5      5  14    76    19    3



- 34 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Procurement
5.01      Civil works contracts of more than US$1 million each, estimated
to amount to a total of US$20 million would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. How-
ever, the local construction industry in the Philippines is well developed
and most contracts under this project are expected to go to Philippine
firms.  Because of the need to undertake the work in small areas on a block-
by-block basis working with the residents of the project communities, civil
works contracts of less than US$1 million each for a total of about US$22
million, are not suitable for international competitive bidding. These would
be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, locally advertised in accord-
ance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
5.02      For equipment and material procurement, except materials for house
improvement, all contracts over US$100,000 and amounting to about US$2.5
million equivalent would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts below US$100,000
totalling about US$1.0 million equivalent would be tendered on the basis of
competitive bidding, locally advertised in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Bank.
5.03      All contracts executed under the SIR Program in the regional cities
to be financed under the project will be submitted to NHA for review prior
to bids being invited. Contracts in the regional cities having a value of
over US$100,000 would be advertised in a nationally circulated newspaper.
Prior review by the Bank of contract specifications and bidding documents
will extend to all contracts for community facilities, and for all contracts
for civil works and equipment estimated to cost US$1 million or more. NHA's
consultants would provide a commentary on prequalification bidding procedures,
and evaluation and award of all contracts prior to NHA approval of contract
award.
B. Disbursements
5.04      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 43% for civil works
against normal documentation; disbursements for equipment and materials
would be at the rate of 100% for direct imports, 100% local expenditures
ex-factory for locally manufactured goods and 65% for other locally pro-
cured equipment and materials; 100% of the expenditures for technical assis-
tance and training and 50% of the proceeds of the Small Business Loans for
materials and equipment and for house building materials, certified by NHA.
A maximum amount of $700,000 is recommended for retroactive financing from
February 1, 1978 for design and program advisory support and technical assis-
tance to the Metro Cebu Development Project under the technical assistance



- 35 -
category and for civil works. The estimated schedule of disbursements is as
follows:
$ Million
Amount             Cumulative             % Cumulative
Quarter Ending          Disbursed           Disbursements          Disbursements
March 1979                 0.90                  0.90                     2.8
June 1979                 0.63                   1.53                     4.7
September 1979            0.36                   1.89                     5.9
December 1979             0.75                   2.64                     8.2
March 1980                 1.17                  3.81                    11.9
June 1980                  1.86                  5.67                    17.7
September 1980            2.31                   7.98                    24.9
December 1980              3.45                 11.43                    35.7
March 1981                 3.75                 15.18                    47.4
June 1981                  3.63                 18.81                    58.7
September 1981            3.51                  22.32                    69.7
December 1981              3.42                 25.74                    80.4
March 1982                 2.13                 27.87                    87.1
June 1982                  1.44                 29.31                    91.6
September 1982             1.11                 30.42                    95.0
December 1982              1.03                 31.45                    98.3
March 1983                 0.55                 32.00                   100.0
C. Supervision
5.05      Supervision by Bank staff will require approximately 8 man-weeks
of field effort per year during the 5-year implementation period. For every
man-week in the field approximately 2 man-weeks of office work in Washington
would be required.
D. Community Participation
5.06      An important aspect of the SIR program is the high level of com-
munity participation designed into the program. SIR program offices have
been working closely with residents in the first sites to be upgraded in
each city. Project offices will be established at each site to facilitate
discussions with residents, and a community planning council is being estab-
lished in each area for continuous review of technical options and proposals.
Alignment of roads and footpaths and location of public facilities are being
determined in association with residents working jointly with SIR staff.
Special assistance to the project in community participation is being pro-
vided by UNICEF who is working with the SIR units and with community groups
in the three project cities. In Cagayan de Oro and Davao, UNICEF has spon-
sored week long planning seminars with up to 15 participants drawn from Gov-
ernment offices involved in implementing SIR and up to 25 residents. These



- 36 -
seminars have been very helpful in establishing community understanding of
the projects and are expected to continue on a periodic basis.
E. Lot Allocation Procedures for Sites and Services Areas
5.07      For sites and services areas and infill plots in upgrading areas,
the only criteria for eligibility of applicants that would be applied are
that the applicant: (i) own no other residential property in the city; and
(ii) have family income in the range specified for lots of a given size and
location.
5.08      At least four months prior to the expected commencement of construc-
tion, the availability of the lots and the terms and allocation procedures,
will be announced in the principal local paper in the particular city. All
applications satisfying the above eligibility criteria will be assigned a
number and a public drawing of numbers on a random basis will be sponsored by
the Mayor's office in each city to select allottees. For the Dagat-Dagatan
site, NHA will be responsible for assignment of lots to applicants using the
same procedure as in the regional cities. Infill sites and upgrading areas
will be allocated in the same way as sites and services lots. The only
exception to the above will be the assignment of lots, as a first priority, to
households displaced by installation of utilities in slum upgrading sites
financed under the project.
F. Land Tenure
5.09      Letter of Instruction 686 provides that all beneficiaries will be
provided with a lease purchase contract and allowed to purchase freehold
title after a qualifying period which will vary from city to city in accord-
ance with local conditions, but which in no case will exceed 5 years. In
Cagayan de Oro, all beneficiaries will be permitted to exercise this purchase
option after 3 years, provided that a record of prompt payment of lease
charges has been established by the lessee. At Dagat Dagatan and in Cebu,
the lessee will be able to exercise this purchase option after two years, and
in Davao within one year of signing the lease purchase contract. All leases
will be freely transferable. The lease purchase contract issued to benefi-
ciaries in all project sites will fully spell out: the amount of lease
payments for the duration of the lease; the purchase price at the time the
option is exercised; and the percent of monthly lease payment which will be
counted towards the purchase price. The lease purchase contract for each city
will be submitted to the Bank for review at least two months prior to the date
when the first contract would be issued.



- 37 -
G. Implementation Schedule
5.10      The project would be implemented over a 5-year period as indicated
below:
Major Components  1978 R  1979      1980      1981      1982
Manila
Dagat-Dagatan
Land Reclamation
Infrastructure
Core Housing &                       -         -_
Materials Loans
Community Facilities
Regional Cities
Cagayan De Oro
Macabalan
Lapasan                        _
Kauswagen                      _
Davao
New Matina
Piapi                        _       -       -
Cebu
Pasil/Ermita
Alaska                       -       m
Carbon
Sniall Business Loans                    -
Flood Control Equipment
Technical Assistance
tJ Retroactive
World Bank -18949
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Cost Recovery
6.01      Because finance has been one of the critical constraints in programs
for the expansion of housing and related services, the project aims to demon-
strate, in a variety of physical and economic environments, the feasibility of
city-wide programs which provide basic services to low-income groups without
external subsidies. The level of payments affordable by beneficiaries was
a principal factor in defining appropriate standards and financial terms.
Project designs are based on extensive use of self-help construction, high



- 38 -
densities and small-lot sizes, and provide for servicing of industrial/com-
mercial land to generate additional revenues. The cost recovery approach
distinguishes between public facilities normally financed from general tax
sources and utility charges, and facilities normally paid for directly by
beneficiaries. The general principle adopted was that costs normally borne by
private developers in a private housing scheme would be recovered through the
lease and sale of developed land. Other expenses normally incurred by Govern-
ment agencies in support of private development schemes, such as community
facilities, would be borne by the appropriate agency. On this basis, about
25% of project capital costs (for off-site works, community facilities, and
water and electric utilities) will be recovered through fiscal revenues and
consumer tariffs, and will not be included in lease/purchase charges. Cost
recovery sources for the project are as follows:
COST ITEM
o  b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
Lot sale price  *   *
Lot charges                   *  *   *      *
Loan repayments
Utility tariffs    *
Municipal revenues
Government appropriations                                                         J .
11 For secondary distribution depending on tariff structure of local utility company
21 Except where allocable to non-recoverable items
3/ Recovery limited to project design and supervision
World Bank - 18947



- 39 -
6.02      In defining the detailed arrangements for program implementation,
LOI 555 called for a major role by a number of national agencies for the
execution and financing of on-site infrastructure works. This arrangement
would have considerably extended the normal responsibilities of those agencies
and would have caused severe problems in coordinating project execution and
financing. LOI 555 has therefore been satisfactorily revised through the
issue of LOI 686 to reinstate the traditional institutional responsibilities.
Terms to Beneficiaries
6.03      Residential beneficiaries will be offered a 25-year transferable
lease which contains an option to purchase the freehold interest. A range of
lot sizes with a variety of optional on-lot development will be available for
different income groups within the target population. For residential bene-
ficiaries who purchase freehold title, up to 90% mortgage financing will be avail-
able at 12% for 20 years, thereby converting the public equity holdings in
residential land. Although commercial financial institutions are presently
extending mid-term housing mortgage finance at about 18%, the 12% 1/ rate of
interest to beneficiaries is considered to be acceptable given even lower
(i.e. 9%) interest rates historically charged for public housing, and given
lower rates of return typically earned by public utilities on certain items of
similar infrastructure. It should be noted that mortgage markets in the
Philippines are not yet well developed and market rates fluctuate consider-
ably. Developed industrial and commercial land will, in general, be sold at
prevailing market value. However, NHA and local jurisdictions may, at their
discretion, lease industrial/commercial land to entrepreneurs where this is
financially more attractive.
B. Demand and Affordability
6.04      Surveys undertaken during the course of project preparation provide
up-to-date information on family incomes and other socio-economic data. In
slum areas to be upgraded, the median-family income ranges between P 340 and
P 380. For sites and services areas the target group falls generally between
the 10th and 60th percentile on the income curve in each city. The project
represents the initial phase of programs in each city which are expected to
extend over 10-15 years in order to service the effective demand of the target
population based on the proposed pricing policy.
Monthly Payments
6.05      Under the proposed pricing policy, the lease rate for the smallest
lot at Dagat-Dagatan would be affordable at about the 10th percentile of
income for Metro Manila. In the regional cities, average sized sites and
services lots would be affordable at about the 25th percentile and typical
upgrading sites would be afforadable at about the 10th percentile. In the
1/ This rate would be positive relative to the rate of inflation, which
at 7% per annum prevailing over the last three years, is expected to
continue for the next three years.



- 40 -
regional cities, residents who could not afford larger lots would receive
smaller ones at a proportionately lower cost. Most of the lowest income
families in each project site are transients or families who are currently
renting individual rooms from the primary occupant of the lot. While it
would be impractical to provide separate lots for all such families, they
would  benefit  substantially  from  improved  conditions  in  the  project  areas.
Table VI.1 below, summarizes lot costs and beneficiary charges.
6.06          For  families  who  can afford  to purchase  their  lots,  the  plot
purchase price will be obtained by adding the land and reclamation cost to
the servicing cost. The chargeable land cost will be based on the average
cost  of  land  acquired  and  reclaimed  under  the  program  in each  city.   In  the
regional cities, the average purchase price for an upgraded lot and for a
new site is correspondingly estimated at P 3,700 and P 6,370 respectively,
requiring monthly payments o P 40 and P 69 respectively. In Dagat-Dagatan,
the purchase price of a 60 m lot would average about P 10,664 per lot re-
quiring monthly payments of about P 110.
TABLE VI.I: PLOT COSTS AND BENEFICIARY CHARGES
No. of     Allocated  /1          Beneficiary Charges             Affordability of
Lots      Cost Per Lot     Freehold Title         Lease          Lease Charge for
Price   Monthly  Price   Monthly   Lots in Project
Charge            Charge     Site
Income Percentile 3/
CEBU
Upgrading                2762          2871          2871       31     1117       12       below 10
Sites and Services        384          4609          4609       50    2877        31             10
CAGAYAN DE ORO
Upgrading                1909          6029          5760      63    3086         34             10
Sites and Services        940          9244          8177      89    5503         60             25
DAVAO
Upgrading                1784          2612          2612       28    2524        27            10
Sites and Services       2493          8768          5957       65    5641        61             25
DAGAT-DAGATAN
48 m2 lot                 860         11558          7257      75    4586         50             10
60 m2 lot                3440         14447         10664      110    6604       72             30
72 m2 lot                1720         17336         14025      144    8255       90             40
84 m2 lot                 860         20226         17890      183    10090      110            45
98 m  lot                 860         23579         23597      234    12383      135            55
120 m2 lot                688         27931        40600/2
over 120 m2 lot           172         29135         50000 2
/1 Includes land acquisition, site preparation and on-site development.
2/ Sold at market prices.
3/ For sites and service areas, the eity wide income distribution was employed
and for upgrading areas the income distrubution of the project areas was
used. Families are assumed to pay between 18 and 20% of income



- 41 -
Pricing of Industrial/Commercial Property
6.07      The sale of land for industrial and commercial use will be an
important source of project revenue. An analysis has been undertaken in
each city to determine land values and the availability of similar land
adjacent to sites to be considered for future years. This analysis tended
to indicate that opportunities for differential pricing were not uniformly
distributed geographically and that program planning, based on application
of profits to offset future years investments, would be desirable since
investments and revenues would occur in different locations and at different
times.
C. Impact on Municipal Finance
6.08      These projects and programs will do much to promote local economic
activity, particularly through the development of land for industry and
commerce, and will expand the municipal tax base. Local government investment
requirements for the SIR Program would generally be obtained through loans
from the NHA. Since about 75% of the local government's investment would be
recoverable through user charges and since the local government would receive
revenues from all of the commercial/industrial property developed by the
project, a financial surplus is expected to accrue at Dagat-Dagatan and in
each regional city (see Table T4). The impact would be further enhanced by
the substantial property tax revenues which would be generated mainly from
industrial and commercial development. For the Dagat-Dagatan component, for
example, property taxes are expected to amount to about P 4 million per year
on the basis of present tax provisions. These municipal revenues are expected
to be more than adequate to cover the incremental cost of municipal services.
D. Replicability of the National SIR Program
6.09      Based on unit costs estimated for the proposed project, a national
program covering 25% 1/ of the country's urban population would cost roughly
US$440 million, or US$508 million including community facilities. A 15-year
program would, therefore, require capital investments amounting to about US$34
million a year in 1978 prices.
6.10      Assuming growth in the target population of about 4% annually, addi-
tional expenditures amounting to about US$24 million would need to be included
annually to provide for the expected population increase and would result in
a total investment program of US$58 million annually at 1978 prices. This
level of investment would represent about 3% of annual investments under
the 1978 NEDA infrastructure program, and would directly benefit about 12% of
the country's lowest income families. Actual net investment levels, however,
would be reduced by about 75% through the sale and lease of developed land.
In addition, profits received from industrial/commercial development could
reduce net investment requirements by a further 10-20%.
1/   Represents the maximum probable target population based on surveys
from larger cities.



- 42 -
VII. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01      The project would have a substantial influence on the Government's
approach to urban shelter and infrastructure, and should lead to important
strengthening of the institutional capacities of both NHA and local govern-
ments. Significant equalization of access to basic public infrastructure in
key urban areas would be accomplished through extension of facilities to
low-income slum and squatter communities and regularization of title and
tenure. This would be achieved on a substantially self-liquidating basis.
7.02      The Metro M4anila component of the project would provide a major
increase in the housing stock in a site close to the urban core area on
currently unused land. Commercial and industrial development in the Dagat-
Dagatan Project area would establish the site as a major employment center
for an estimated 22,000 persons close to residential locations. The economic
benefits of the Dagat-Dagatan component are based on estimates of the imputed
market value of. the serviced residential plots and the market value of the
industrial/commercial land provided. The economic costs include all net of
tax costs of infrastructure, including a pro-rata allocation of the costs of
schools and clinics (the benefits of which are only imperfectly reflected in
imputed property values) and certain off-site drainage works serving other
areas. Land was valued at its opportunity cost. On this basis, the economic
rate of return for the Dagat-Dagatan residential component is estimated to be
25% and for the commercial/industrial development, 58%. These high rates of
return reflect scarcity values brought about by historically low levels of
public investment in residential infrastructure and urban services generally.
7.03      The Slum Improvement (SIR) component in the regional cities repre-
sents a major shift in Government emphasis from costly and subsidized programs
of resettlement of slum communities to improvement of these communities
in-situ with recovery of servicing costs. This component would directly
benefit about 48,000 persons at a cost of about US$505 per family compared
with costs estimated at about US$1,500 per family under resettlement programs.
An important effect of these improvements would be to bring substantial
parcels of urban land with clouded title back into the urban economy. Security
of tenure through the issue of lease purchase contracts will enable the
Government to institute a monthly charge to recover the cost of the services
provided. The feasibility of replicating the program is ensured through cost
recovery. The measurement of economic benefits of slum improvement is based
on increases in property values brought about by the provision of infra-
structure and other services; the economic rate of return for this component
is estimated at about 37%.
7.04      The sites and services and commercial/industrial developments in
the regional cities are an integral part of the SIR Program. The sites and
services component in the regional cities would provide about 3,800 new
residential plots for low-income families and would alleviate the underlying
conditions that lead to squatting by providing low-cost, affordable plots in
well-sited locations. The economic rate of return for sites and services
developments in regional cities is estimated at 13%. The servicing of com-
mercial/industrial development in the regional cities would provide additional



- 43 -
revenue to the SIR Program that will be used to reduce residential charges
and will provide job locations near low-income residential areas. The eco-
nomic rate of return of this component is estimated at 32%.
7.05      The small business loan component, which would operate in all
project cities, would support approximately 2,500 jobs at an estimated
average cost per job of about US$1,100. The use of a commercial bank as
an intermediary in Cagayan de Oro and the provision of technical field
agents for loan preparation, technical support and follow-up is designed
to lead to a system that would ultimately be attractive on a wider scale
to non-Government banks.
7.06      The estimated weighted average economic rate of return for those
components of the project for which benefits could be quantified, and
which account for 85% of the project cost is estimated to be about 34%.
Impact on the Urban Poor
7.07      An estimated 40% of the families in urban areas of the country, have
incomes below the poverty level threshold. 1/ This group is growing at
approximately 4.0% per year. Project components are designed to maximize
their impact on the basic needs of the urban poverty group. In Dagat-Dagatan
over 70% (or about 6,000) of the lots would be targeted for families below the
poverty level and would be affordable by these families. By 1982, some
250,000 persons will have received direct benefits through provision of water
and basic infrastructure under the first and proposed second project. In the
regional city project sites all new or improved residential lots would be
afforable by families below the poverty threshold. In upgrading areas, some
85% of families whose lots are improved, and in sites and services areas 90%
of families who receive new lots, are estimated to be in the urban poverty
group. In the 3 regional project cities 78,000 or about 20% of the projected
target group will have received direct shelter benefits through the project.
7.08      The impact of the employment promotion components is more difficult
to measure. However, based on estimates of the proportion of unskilled
workers to the total employed population on these sites it is expected that
about 50-60% of additional employment would benefit the urban poor. In the
case of flood control equipment, while the population of the city as a whole
would benefit, lower-income families typically predominate among those living
in flood prone areas. Some 50% of families directly benefiting from these
measures are estimated to be in the urban poverty group. Of the total project
cost of US$69.94 million, some 72% is directly attributable to the urban
poverty group. On this basis urban poverty expenditures under the project
would amount to $50 million.
1/   The urban poverty figure for Manila is the subject of considerable
uncertainty. Both the poverty level threshold figure and the Manila
income distribution are under review.



- 44 -
Project Risks
7.09      Because the project supports new programs, it necessarily entails
a number of risks. The SIR Program in the regional cities will be implemented
by units formed only about one year ago for this purpose. Standard operating
procedures will have to be established by these offices, and additional staff
will have to be hired as implementation proceeds. Moreover the NHA will be
new to its supervisory responsibilities and effective working relationships
with local governments on financial and technical matters will have to be
established. The use of advisory consultants in the regional cities and in
the NHA should significantly reduce these risks. Furthermore, the very good
progress made to date by NHA and the staff of the regional cities in estab-
lishing the program, suggests that implementation risks are acceptable, given
the expected benefits of the project and the potential for expanding the role
of the SIR Program.
7.10      In Metro Manila, the justification for the small lot sizes, low
levels of on-lot development, and low-cost designs for schools and community
facilities proposed for Dagat-Dagatan is still debated among some Government
officials. This will require careful handling and continued explanation
of policy on the part of NHA in order to secure effective intergovernmental
support for longer-term national program efforts.
7.11      Other risks involve staffing and beneficiary repayments.  The
expansion of NHA programs has strained NHA's staff resources. The staffing
requirements to implement the project have been carefully reviewed, and it
is believed that steps taken, including (i) the hiring of key staff, (ii) the
use of consultants and (iii) the establishment of a training office, should be
satisfactory to ensure successful project implementation. The financial
viability of these programs will depend in part on efficient collection
procedures. NHA and local governments must be prepared to enforce contract
agreements with beneficiaries in cases of default. It is believed that the
proposed land tenure arrangements involving an option to purchase freehold
title will provide strong incentives on the part of beneficiaries to meet
scheduled payments, and that for this reason collection will be satisfactory.
7.12      Despite the above, the success of the Tondo Foreshore Slum Improve-
ment Project and the rapid development by NHA of a well-articulated and pro-
gressive improvement program, has led to a political mandate for rapid expan-
sion of programs benefiting low-income families. Programs for upgrading slums
are currently being developed in each of the 17 local governments of the Metro
Manila area and were originally considered for inclusion in the project.
However, in order to reduce the complexity of implementation arrangements and
to give the project a better chance to achieve its already substantial goals,
it was decided to limit the scope of the project by excluding the Metro Manila
Slum Improvement Program from this project.



- 45 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01     During negotiations agreement was reached with Government on the
following principal points:
(a)   a full-time Project Manager and Works Engineer with
qualifications and experience acceptable to NHA and to
the Bank will be appointed for each project site in Cebu,
Davao and Cagayan de Oro, prior to the submission of
tenders for the first contract at the site (para 3.05);
(b)   for Dagat-Dagatan, NRA will maintain in force the consulting
contract for construction management (para 3.08).   NHA
will also maintain in force the consulting contract for
each regional city that provides for a resident engineer or
architect/planner in each of those cities supported by a
financial analyst, and a program planning analyst who
will work in all three cities (para 3.06);
(c)   confirmation that adequate funds for full staffing of the
Dagat Dagatan and SIR Program Offices will be included in
the appropriate budgets (para 3.05);
(d)   a training program for NHA staff and local government SIR
staff, including a Training Office within NHA (para 3.15);
(e)   technical and financial reports satisfactory to the Bank
will be made of the SIR Program in each city on a regular
basis by COA and NHA's consultants (para 3.09);
(f)   final sale and lease prices of all residential property will
be determined in consultation with the Bank and announced
prior to the start of construction at each site (para 5.08);
(g)   NHA's consultants will prepare a commentary on prequalification,
bidding procedures and evaluation and award for all contracts
prior to NHA approval of award of the contract (para 5.03);
(h)   updating of the three-year program, financial, and staffing
plan for NHA (para 3.18). NHA will inform the Bank prior
to proposing any major change, during the project implement-
ation period, in the plan (para 3.18);
(i)   for a period of four years, the Bank would have an opportunity
to comment on any significant proposals for Government expend-
itures other than project expenditures within project areas
(para 4.03);



- 46 -
(j)   designation of a senior level position carrying at least
Department Head rank will be established for external
financial relations, the development of new sources of
finance, and the supervision of NHA's financial control
systems. Appointment to be made by January 31, 1979
(para 3.16);
(k)   a report on NHA staff development policies including
recommendations for increasing and strengthening middle
and higher level staff positions will be prepared by NHA's
consultants by August 30, 1979 and reviewed with the Bank
(para 3.14).
8.02           A condition of effectiveness of the loan will be the
submission of a subsidiary Loan Agreement between NHA and the Government
(para 2.23).
8.03           The proposed project is suitable for a Bank Loan of $32.0 million
for a term of 20 years including a grace period of 5 years.



_ 47 -
SECOND PRILIPPINES URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I
Table T-l: DETAILED C|tST ESTIMATES (P millions)
PHYSICAL WORKS
DACAT-
DAGATAN                     CEBU                         CAGAYAN DE ORO                             DAVAO                      TOTAL
Pasil/Ermita/   Alaska/
Carbon      Mambalang      Macabalan   Lapasan  KauswaRen                New Matina      Piapi
Land and Reclamation
Land Acquisition                                   1.42           1.34           3.80       0.70      0.75                     0.18                              8.19
Reclamation                                        0.94           1.95          14.65       0.78                                1.23                            19.55
Sub-total                                          2.36           3.29          18.45       1.48      0.75                      1.41                            27.74
Off-Site Infrastructure
Earth Levy & Sea Wall                                                            1.98                                           1.12         0.56                3.66
Main Drainage                                                                                                                   2.24                             2.24
Water Main                        3.27                                                                                                                           3.27
Access Road                                                       0.06                                                                                           0.06
Sub-total                         3.27                            0.06           1.98                                          3.36         0.56                 9.23
On-Site Infrastructure
Site Preparation                 16.34                                           0.48                                                                           16.82
Main Drainage                    36.49                                                                                                                          36.49
Site Drainage                    11.44             0.59           0.06           0.32       0.36      0.56                      2.90        0.39                16.62
Roads and Footpaths              33.99             1.48           0.75           3.91       1.74       2.74                    14.29         1.92               60.82
Water - Reticulation             12.42             0.21           0.32           1.12       0.43       0.67                     3.52         0.48               19.17
- Temporary Supply         6.54                                                                                                                           6.54
Sewage - Reticulation            39.65                                                                                                                          39.65
- Treatment              15.58                                                                                                                          15.58
Street Lighting                   0.22                            0.01           0.06       0.01      0.01                     0.04         0.01                 0.36
Sub-total                       172.67             2.28           1.14           5.89       2.54      3.98                    20.75         2.80               212.05
On-Lot Development
Service Connections               3.70                                                                                                                           3.70
Sanitary Facilities              U.05              0.50           0.74           0.37       0.69       1.46                    5.35         0.06                20.22
Fire Walls                        3.44                                                                                                                           3.44
Housing Options                   4.27                                                                                                                           4.27
Building Loa.s                    7.78             0.69           0.76           0.68       0.39      0.63                      2.49         0.46               13.88
Sub-total                        30.24             1.19           1.50           1.05       1.08       2.09                    7.84         0.52                45.51
Community Facilities
Schools                          19.50             0.18           0.40           0.12       0.12      0.83                     0.96         0.71                22,82
Health Centers                     L25             0.12           0.18           0.12                  0.18                     0.18         0.12                2.15
BDCN  /1                          1.76             0.38           0.19           0.19       0.19      0.19                     0.76         0.38                 4.04
Markets                            0.17                                                                                                                          0.17
Sub-total                        22.68             0.68           0.77           0.43       0.31       1.20                     1.90         1.21               29.18
Sub-total - Physical Works          22*.86            6.51           6.76           27.80      5.41       8.02                    35.26         5.09               323.71
SMALL BUSINESS LOANS                                                                                                                                               16.00
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                                                                                                4'2. Q
FLOOD CONTROL EQUIPMENT                                                                                                                                             14.00
CONTINGENCIES
Physical                                                                                                                                                        31,54
Price                                                                                                                                                           9Q.13
Sub-total                                                                                                                                                      12L.67
TOTAL                                                                                                                                                              47, 70
/L Barangay/Daycare/Nutrition Center



SECOND PHILIPPINES URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table T-2: AGENCY RESPONSIBILITIES FOR PROJECT INPLEMENTATION i
Operation &
Budget              Desig             Implementation        Maintenance
Feasibility Studies                    SIR                                        SIR
Land Acquisition & Reclamation
l'or national roads               MPH                 MPH                    MPH
for city roads                    City                 City                   City
for community facilities          RA /3              RA/SIR                   SIR
Off-Site Works
sea walls & levees                BPW                  BPW                    BPW                BPW
On-Site Works /2
Roads
national roads                  MPH                  MPH                    MPH                MPH /4
city roads (in city master
plan)            City                 City                   City               City
project internal streets        SIR                  SIR                    SIR           City/Community
Water Supply
(a) pipes under national roads        LD                   LD                     LD                  LD
pipes under city roads            LD                   LD                     LD                  LD
pipes under project streets       SIR                  SIR                    SIR                 LD
(b) house connections                 SIR                  SIR                    SIR          Household/Community
(c) public taps                       SIR                  SIR                    SIR
Human Wastes Disposal
pit privies                       SIR                  SIR                    SIR             Household
public toilet block               SIR                  SIR                    SIR          City/Community
Sewerage
treatment                         City                 City                   City                City
reticulation under national
roads                            City                 City                   City               City
reticulation under city roads   City                   City                   City                City
reticulation under project
streets                          SIR                  SIR                    SIR                City
house cnnnections                 SIR                  SIR                    SIR             Household
Drainage
relating to national highways  NPH/BF`               MPH/BFW                MPH/BFW             WH/BPW /4
relating to city roads            City                 City                   City               City
relating to project streets       SIR                  SIR                    SIR                City
Street Lighting & Electricity
streets                        Utility Company         SIR              Utility Company   Utility Company
community facilities              SIR                  SIR              Utility Company          City
Community Facilities
elementary schools                DEC                MEC/SIR                  SIR                City
high schools                      City                 City                   City               City
health clinics                    City                 SIR                    SIR                City
day care/nutrition centers        MSSD                 SIR                    SIR                City
Barangay centers                  MLGCD                SIR                    SIR             Community
markets                           SIR                  SIR                    SIR             Community
A1  SIR refers to city level SIR Unit.  NHA SIR Units will provide supervision and assistance.
In Dagat Dagatan, SIR responsibilities will be undertaken by the Central NHA Office.
2  In slum upgrading areas, tertiary water distribution and sewerage reticulation would be
implemented and financed by the responsible agency in accordance with existing procedures.
/3  Municipality may maintain as agent on reimburseable basis.
7   Responsible agency.



- 49 -
SECOND PHILIPPINES URBAN DEVELOFMENT PROJECT
Table T-3: PROJECT STANDARDS
Facility Planning Standards
Facility                                  Desired Level of Service                                             Basic Level of Service
Dagat-Dagatan                           Regional Cities
Water                    Water line connections shared by          80 liters per capita per                      80 liters per capita
up to four dwellings and supply of        day adjacent to all                           per day within 75m. of
105 liters per capita per day.            dwellings.                                    all dwellings.
Access
Vehicular             All dwellings to be within 125m           All dwellings to be within                    All dwellings to be
of all purpose road and within            75m of road capable of                       within 75m of road or an
70m of strengthened footpath              carrying a fire truck.                        alleyway or improved
capable of carrying emergency                                                          footpath capable of
service vehicle.                                                                        carrying a fire truck.
Pedestrian           All dwellings not on roads to              All dwellings not on roads                   All dwellings not on
have direct access to footpaths.          to have access to adjacent                    roads to,be within 1m
footpath.                                    of adjacent footpath.
Transportation        All dwellings to be within                All dwellings to be within                    Same
500m of bus route.  All                   300m of bus/jeepneys/other
dwellings to be within 250m               public transport route.
Sanitation               All dwellings to have individual          All dwellings have individual                 Shared facility with not
toilet facilities with shared             pit privies or sewer                         more than 10 dwellings
connections to sewer, capable             connection.                                  sharing.
of taking household sullage
and toilet flows.
Drainage
Off lot               All roads and footpaths to have           All roads and footpaths to                    Same
surface and subsurface drainage           have surface and subsurface
for draining all adjacent                 drainage capable of draining
dwellings.                                adjacent dwellings.
On lot                See Sanitation                            All dwellings to have access                  Same
to drainage for sullage
removal adjacent to plot.
Garbage Disposal         All dwellings to have access              All dwellings to have access                  Same
to regular garbage collection             to regular garbage collection
service within 125m of the                service within 75m of dwellings.
dwellings.
Street Lighting          All dwellings to be within 70m            All dwellings to be within                    Same
of a street light.                        70m of street light.
Open Space               All dwellings to have access to           All dwellings to have access to               1Cm2 per 20 dwellings.
informal open space at an                 informal open space at an
average rate of 20m2  per                 average rate of 20m2  per
20 lots.                                  20 dwellings.



- 50 -
SECOND PHILIPPINES URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table T-4: PROJECT CASH FLOW (P millions)
DACAT-DAGATAN (Project Area)                              1978         1979          1980         1981          1982          1983          1984         1985-2002
ApplicatLions of Funds
Capital Outlays                                        24.78         67.88       103.53         R1.64         21.95
Alministration                                          0.20          0.30         0.35          0.37          0.40          0.40         0.35            13.61
Debt Service  1/                                         0.50         3.63          7.70        11.82         12.65         12.65        12.65            65.29
Total Applications                                     25.48         71.81       111.58         91.Rq         35.00         13.05        13.00          178.90
Sources of Funds
Pcc.-ect Revenues - Industrial/Conmerical land                       15.32         25.33        37.23         41.11         45.33        37.61            18.86
- Beneficiary Charges  3/                          7.48        14.39         22.64         24.01        18.21         13.14          215.99
Transfer Payments - National Agencies                    7.80        19.71         27.93        20.24          4.29
Loans                                                  18.00         30.00        44.00         14.00
Total Sources                                          25.80         72.51        111.65        94.11         69.41         63.54          50.75         234.85
Cumulative Surplus/(Deficit)                               0.32          1.QQ         1.09          1.37         35.78        86.27         124.02         195.48
CAGAYAN DE ORO 2/
Applications of Funds
Capital Outlays                                          3.84        11.79         17.90          3.85         0.07
Administration                                           0.04         0.06          0.12          0.15         0.12          0.12          0.10             2.21
Debt Service 1/                                          0.08         0.77          1.93          2,86          2.86         2.86          2.86            37.24
Total Applications                                       3.96        12.62         19.95          6.86         3.05          2.98          2.96            39.45
Sources of Funds
Project Revenues - Industrial/.7ommercia] land                        2.00          4.60          5.30
- Beneficiary Charges./                            0.28         0.86          1.73          2.21           2.54        2.54           40.57
Transfer Payments - National Agencies                    1.17         2.33          1.17
- City 4/                           0.03         0.24          0.42          0.53          0.53           0.-3        0.53            6.83
Loans                                                    3.00         8.00         13.00
Total Sources                                            4.20         12.85        20.05          7.56          2.74          3.07         3.07           47.40
Cumulative Surplus/(Deficit)                               0.24          0.47         0.57          1.27          0.96           1.05         1.16            9.11
CEBU
Applications of Funds
Capital Outlays                                          2.66         5.89          6.48          0.37
Administration                                           0.02         0.04          0.04          0.05          0.05         0.05          0.04            1.46
Debt Service 1/                                          0,07         0.63          1.32          1.86          1.91         1.91         1L91            24.87
Total Applications                                       2.75          6.56         7.84          2.28          1.96          1.96         1.95           26.33
Sources of Funds
Project Revenues - Beneficiary Charges ]/                             0.37          0.87          1.34         1.60          1.67          1.67           26.78
Transfer Payments - hation/l Agencies                    0.13         0.20          0.25
- City> 47                          0.02         0.14          0.28          0.37          0,37         0.37          0.37            4.87
Loans                                                    2.75         6.00          6.50         0.75
Total Sources                                            2.90          6.71         7.90          2.46          1.97         2.04          2.04           31.65
Cumulative Surplus/(Deficit)                              0.15         0.30          0.36          0.54         0.55          0.63          0.72            6.04
DAVAO
Applications of Funds
Capital Outlays                                          4.35        17.26         13.71         11.91         4.84
Administration                                           0.04         0.07          0.12          0.17         0.15          0.15          0.12            2.63
Debt Service 1/                                          0.11         0.94          1.74         2.43          2.94         3.20           3.20           42.70
Total Applications                                       4.50        18.27         15.57         14.51         7.93          3.35          3.32           45.33
Sources of Funds                                                                                                                                                              i
Project Revenues - tndustrial/Commercial land                         5.21          6.00          6.91
- Beneficiary Charges  3/                          0.82         1.65          2.46          2.90          3.04         3.04           48.47
Transfer Payments - National Agencies                    0.66         2.83          2.70          0.65
- City  4/                          0.02          0.18         0.43          0.64          0.67         0.67          0.67             6.75
Loans                                                    4  oo0       9.3S          L.          ..0 4onp       4              -5
Total Sources                                            4.68        18.39         15.78         14.66          8.07         3.71          3.71           57.22
Cumulative Surplus/(Deficit)                               0,18          0.30         0.51          0.66          0.80          1.16         1.55           13.44
1/  l1%, 20 years (including 3 year grace on repayment of principal).  Includes intereat during construction.
2/  Excludes possible additional expenditures on reclamati*n by contract at Macabalan.  Residents may choose a low cost self-help
method in which case the funda could be applied to extending the program to additional sites.
3/ Net of arrearages included at 15% for 3 years, 12% for following 2 years and 8% thereafter.
4/ Represents debt service on loans for city functions.



SECIP  PRILIPPINIS URNAN DEVELIPlNT PROJECT
Table T-5: MESIC 4ND COSSTRUCTION STANDARDS
Facility                                      Design Standards                                                         Construction Standards
Dagat-Dagatan                        Regional Cities                        Dagat-Dagatan                        Regional Cities
Water
Main lines in roads      Reticulation design to carry         Reticulation design to carry            Main-                                 lOsm and 75rrr PVC pipes
and footpaths,           twice average daily consumption    twice average daily consumption             250am, Zoms, 150mm
flow up to 105 liters per           flow up to 80 liters per capita            PVC Pipes
capita per day.                      (or one 400 liter per minute            Laterals-
firestream per 10 hectares).              lOOms, 75rm PVC
Faucets, standpipes,               -                          40 liters per minute per tap.           Pair of spring loaded taps
public taps,                                                                                          with concrete base.
Connections:                                      same
25mm or 15mm p.b. pipe
mainly to commounity
buildings.
Access
"Secondary Distri-       27m ROW with 4/9/1/9/4 cross                                                 Design based on strength Of
butor" type road         section.                                                                     subgrade (CBR value) but
linking major city                                                                                    normally, 200sm gravel base-
traffic routes and                                                                                    25/75mm asphalt/bitumen
carrying buses  nd                                                                                    macadam.  Channels and
other commercial                                                                                      curbs and paved footpaths.
traffic.
"Collector type"         15r ROW with 3.5/8/3.5               10m ROW in 2/6/2 cross section          Same as sbove                         Design based on Strength of
road linking at          cross section.                       (1.5/7/1.5 cross section if                                                   subgrade (CBR value) but normally:
least 4 dwelling                                              bus route)                                                                    SQOmm gravel base, 25/75-o
groups to city                                                                                                                              asphalt/bitumen macadam  or a
through Street.                                                                                                                             reduced Standard of a Sealed
gravel or rubble base). Chno-elo
and/or curbs as justified by
affordability. Grovel footpaths
unless paved footpath required
to satisfy drainage connideratio-.
Local access road        8m ROW with 1.5/5/1.5                6m ROW in 1/4/1 cross section           Same as above                         As above but no curbing -less
serving up to three      cross Section.                       (0.5/5/0.5 cross section if                                                   justified.
groups of dwellings                                           rood to be used by Jee.poys).
and connecting to a
collector type road
or city through street.
Main footpaths for       5m ROW with 3m paved area            3m ROW                                  Paved concrete footpath               Normally gravel or rubble
internal  irculation    to carry occasional                                                           of 6do  think on a gravel             construction unless paved oncorete
ad also carying          vehicle                                                                      buse.                                 footpath 6cn  thick if justified
sergency service                                                                                                                            hy drainage considerations.
vehicle.
Footpaths giving         3.Om ROW (max.) but 2.Om             2rr ROW (max.)                          Same as above                         Same as above
direct access to         in sane areas,
dweflings, open space
and cosmunity faci-
lities.
Sanitation
lndividual               Individual toilts  and               Pit privy designed for opating          PVC pipe work with neoprene           Standard SOd  design including
hiousehold suflage                   at 15 liters per capita per day         ring Joints with Shared               trapped bowl, Slab and pit walls..
connections to Shared               with sulIage and extraneous              connections.                          (Shelter provided hy rnid-ta.)
sewer connections dis-              surface water e.cluded.
charging 82 liters per
capita per day.
Shared                             -                          15 liters per capita per day-                                                 Community toilets:
for toilet use.                                                               Small 'sise
Trapped bowl, Slab and pit or tank
snditaled by.ote condinto-s.
(Snelter irovided by residents.)
Medium sioe
Trapped bowl, slab and pit or
tank as dictated by site con-
ditions.   (Shelter provided by
project.)
Drainage
Main drainage and        Above flood levels associa-          At least above 5 year risk of           Two types of channels either          Normally open unlined channels
lad reclmation           ted with at least a 5-year           flooding fron offaite conditions,       an open trapizodial channel           or open lined channelt with
design storm,                                                                with conrete inverts and              rendered  -ocrete block sides.
walls lined to high water
level or vertically Sided
concrete lined channels.
Site drainage            1-2 year design storm                One year design storm.                  Main drains on site are               Open lined channels with rendered
open channels and reinforced          concrete block sides.
concrete pipes. Side
drainage or lateral drainage
in Shae"- Surface c.onrete
channels.
Household sullage             See 'Sarj4tation'.              45 liters per capita per day                 See 'Saniation'.                  Cu1vents & Crossings:
to site and main drainage.                                                    Concrete pipes     boo r usirts
as site conditions esquire.
Garbage Disposal
Individual and.          Disposable garbage ata                          Same                         Lot Storage                                       Same
shared.                  rate of s .OJl3 per dwelling                                                  Receptacle provided by household.
per day.                                                                     MC-unal Storage
043 precast concrete bin with
ground slab, lid and gate.
Street Lighting            1 lamp per 1 hectare                            Sane                          Lamps, and fitting. as specified    Loops and fitting. as specified
by Meralco utility company.           by utility company.



NHA MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
aOfficeof theaCon                r        r                                                                       el
Office of the                               Home Financin
Exec.tidi                                   .rlr smGeneral Manager  Commission
OffDice of the                              National HousiRg
Ast &. Geen. Ma nager                             Corporat ion
p       Panp .ng &                              E       D  OpeDtions                        Of Det        R of the    gatnDe.Dp.                                      Adm.RDep
LDevelopment Office   |             Aud it Officem                                         ControllIer                     Office              & l  Iniormation Office|
Ln      PlaPs and C   o   & T                      S                           Sociices a Dv                unformation   |
D.    P          rrgra   Proi.                                                                                   7          DiD.  p   DDiv.iv
|   Project        || Slum DeveloPment                      Estate              r      Commercial
Implementation              & Resettlement               Management                     Industrial                  Socic,-Economic               Real PropertY                   Finance                     General
_   Dept.              _         Dept.                       Dept.              _      Estate Dept.                   Dev. Dept.                Regulation Dept.                   Dept .                    Adm. Dept.
J    LandPlanningl  2   Census-Survev   |  jHousing&Tene]              ]       Sls         l        L        oilee                     Rules& Regu | 
1 Eng. Div. _1 n Div. l m m~~~~~ent Proj. Div                                                                                           Dv.    lat ion Div.   CahDv
J    Arch & Eng.   |  j   Relocation/Re-                 Urban Estate              Promotions & Cli-               E          Dv                 Enforcement
|   Design Div.   |   1   settlement Div.                   Div.                    en Service Div.                 lopment Div.v
j   Teams  1       |     Subdivision    l                                                                 L|  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~             ~~~~Plans Evalua-  |  Ivnvesments |
World Bank - 18948
ho,          *5                                                                                                                                 I.



- 53 -
PHILIPPINES
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in The Project File
A.   Reports and Studies on the Sector
1.   Urbanization and Regional development, Regional Development Staff,
December, 1976.
2.   Pamoyanang Pilipino Integrated Plan Part I 1978-2000, September, 1977.
3.   Regional Strategies to Raise Health Welfare, Regional Development
Staff, August, 1976.
B.   Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.   The Second Feasibility Study of Dagat-Dagatan and REgional cities,
Five Volumes, Llewelyn-Davies Kinhill Pty. Ltd., August 1977.
2.   Regional Cities Status Report, Llewelyn-Davies Kinhill Pty. Ltd.,
February, 1978.
3.   Cebu SIR Program Phase I Feasibility study, Slum Improvement and
Resettlement Office, Cebu City, November, 1977.
4.   New Matina Project Pre-Feasibility Study, Davao City,  October, 1977.
5.   Macabalan Project, Roa Tamparong Consultants, Inc.,, October, 1977.
C.   Selected Working Papers
1.   Report on Metro Manila Flood Control, H. F. Ludwig, October 8, 1977.
2.   Employment Generation Component of the Second Urban Development Project,
D. Unverzagt, April 7, 1978.
3.   Calculation of Economic Rate of Return, Urban Projects Department Staff,
May 1978.






_71 ~~~~~~                                   ~~                ~7
Upgrading of existing Garcia Street in the Tondo Foreshore Area
N1
Garcia Street             Before implementation of upgrading                                During implementation                     Completed southern end of Garcia Street






TONDO FORESHORE
Construction and Completion of Footpath Access to Interior Houses
v  Rk                              ~~~~~~~~~~4
Typical Street Before Upgrading                Typical Street After Upgrading
Sites and Service Units  Example of Vertical Expansion   3 Demonstration Units
Constructto and Completion by Selfat Hcelp tor Copltedior thuesNAPrjc
Artisan Labor             Office to Show Possible
Ultimate Development of Space






Meetig of ommunty rsidens to ote o thethreealterativ bloc desins fo ther blok in Ando
Meeting of cmuiyrsdnstvoeon the three alternative block designs for their block in Tondo.






Macabalan in Cagayan de Oro
Piapi in Davao                         Pasil in Cebu
Sites to be upgraded in the regional cities






a              S~~SiiOb%01U  I-                                         t\
c-c         0I    - N-/
S OJwSONO   0uu *0 Y 00S0bOd  _f           U X            \S>                            7
ScONVAURSU | l SM Kie V
OEM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vl
SiOScSKidAD 531 50000 015 '530   d~ =          Cj i      
SViNOIVDO 11110d dl !i 15000 V,.1 OVSCVA
'>~ ~~50 NOK IS-Ot- A-  ('1-'I' 'L4 
10~ 100h0  )AIAc !V SIl  SlS   dl   N-: ; ;  
NGIiVQOl ID;fOMf
WVdOO)N'd
iNgW3AO&iWt WtTIS S3:IAZ1S GNV S3L1S OtN9D03 
SgNtddfltlHd
N!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
;g[7 _ 7 t \ v 4! , ,\v ^ 08355 Aik
s@u4j~~ojy2dns  ue;2XJo   t  *,J/   g   i             /7   i'-  w  2 t _   ' A    9    $ 9 \N s 
A~~ESOi@E@2<Px.giour  , i   /   45  -  t       ,  -  a    F>s \4g  X             W <~~~~Ai
,. .... ./i     ..l '.tU  ......./t1)              >                          *  J        3 .   - @  t 
,, ,,r, -'d I8/H/4X*. :  V. ]N
ZI  P-  *  .IZ I 0 d;t \ j -. _,=__ L \4
t>X w5 s '=- , '' a LP X s>w
_,D1 1uW At = / / ~~~~~~VI        
tiS   !dJ#g     | l         \<                          4 -Y-f                                         A






IBRD 13472
......k.~d                    ... M   _ j ,,  ....  ,  .g_ L U ZON) :
NDAA
PHILIPPINES
SECOND SITES AND SERVICES
SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Dagat - Dagatan  Sites and  Services
F  IBRD Project Phase Boundaries
Other NHA Projects
4f**    Drains
Major Roads
____Roads
N
PROJECT AREA (hO)
Haus.rrg Commercial Tot.al
A                                               A   -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8.0  8.0
15.7    13.0    28.7
D   21.0     8.0    29.0
E   23.3      -      23.3
F   30.0     4.0    34.0
G     -       7o0     7.0
TOTAL  90.0    40.0   130.0
0oy       <  X/0/                                     t <|                              F300,5  1.0  TAGE
KILOMETERS                                  L  Sage Ponds
0                           D5                           1.0                          7
MAY 1978






IBRD 13473
,zsvs'                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAY 1978
r 1l5 X l X/       |F --t 0 PHILIPPINES
SECOND SITES AND SERVICES
//                            SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Regional Cities
, 9!  A(-----'    o
|  )   N ew N .   S re s  a s   S r c e s    Se   B  o\lt
> ,<) < ~~~' = ; i, ,) N | ~~~Commercia and Inaustria  Areas                                         .7  \ /
3/<   \ __< DAVAO
i<   0<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N                                             cm a~~~CGYA   E R
' /   X          '       K L 2seo'              1/ /5  K;                      CEe;                 K:AT
124'40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 '                 S
2 l                            X       :             _       IZ3 bt'               ,
cc~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~S
c      2                                                                2   4  6~~~~cc
21-                                                                                 12CGAYN D OR



