Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2152 
Project Name 
Growth and Social Protection Technical Assistance Credit 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General public administration sector (40%);Power (30%);General 
industry and trade sector (26%);General agriculture, fishing and 
forestry sector (4%) 
Project ID 
P094869 
Borrower(s) 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica 
Dominica 
Ministry of Finance 
Dominica 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
February 7, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 27, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
July 27, 2006 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Dominica has been successful in stabilizing its economy from a near crisis in 2001-02 when 
output contracted by some 10 percent. The crisis was precipitated in large part by the 
expansionary fiscal policy pursued by the government in the late 1990s and early 2000s. A 
confluence of adverse factors in 2001, including a severe drought, the adverse impact of the 
September terrorist attacks on the tourism industry, the accumulation of arrears and very limited 
access to external financing, pushed the economy into a steep recession. The overall public 
sector balance deteriorated from a surplus of 3.3 percent of GDP in 1995/96 to a deficit of 10.9 
percent of GDP by 2000/01 and the public debt peaked at 130.6 percent of GDP in 2003. The 
recession thre
atened Dominica’s social indicators which although relatively good by LAC’s 
standard are below its ECCU neighbors. 
In mid-2003, the Government adopted a focused adjustment strategy which sought to foster 
growth and ensure debt sustainability. This program, which covers the period 2004/05 to 
2006/07, is currently being supported by an IMF Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy 
Facility (PRGF). The Bank supported this program through an Economic Recovery Support 
Operation (ERSO) in 2004. This program, based on continuing fiscal restraint and structural 
reforms, as well as on measures to foster growth and reduce poverty, including maintaining and 
strengthening the social safety net, constitutes a major pillar of the Government’s Medium-term 
Growth and Social Protection Strategy (GSPS) covering the five-year period from 2005/06 to 
2009/10. 
Page  2
The Government’s GSPS responds to the key challenge of moving the economy to sustained 
higher growth to reduce unemployment and poverty (currently at 29% of population). To do this, 
the Prime Minister and his Cabinet have acknowledged the need for policy reforms to improve 
the efficiency of the public sector and facilitate private sector-led growth. The GSPS has also 
become the key focal point for donors’ support to Dominica. Consequently, the technical 
assistance operation from the Bank would focus on supporting implementation of a focused 
reform agenda in the following strategic areas: (i) making the public sector more efficient and 
cost-effective; (ii) improving the investment climate; (iii) reforming the regulatory framework 
for the energy and agricultural sectors; (iv) labor market reforms; and (v) improving social 
protection. 
The proposed operation is fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the 
OECS sub-region including Dominica which was discussed by the Board in September 2005. 
The CAS presents a new way of doing business to help countries in the sub-region meet the 
challenges facing them at this critical stage of their development. The guiding principles of the 
CAS are: (a) supporting regional integration and coordination efforts; (b) partnering and 
harmonizing in both lending and analytical work with other development partners; and (c) active 
pursuit of simplification and capacity building initiatives tailored to small states.  
The CAS (FY06-09) supports the sub-region’s development agenda through two main pillars: (1) 
stimulating growth and improving competitiveness; and (2) reducing vulnerability, by promoting 
greater social inclusion and strengthening disaster risk management. In recognition of the high 
debt levels in most of these small states, including Dominica, the Bank activities under the CAS 
will focus on using innovative mechanisms to leverage available donor grant financing. The 
proposed operation supports the CAS thrust of improving growth and competitiveness and its 
emphasis on using IDA and IBRD resources to leverage other donors’ grant aid. 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The primary objective of the technical assistance operation is to support the Government of the 
Commonwealth of Dominica in the implementation of a focused policy reform agenda to 
facilitate private sector-led growth in keeping with the Government’s strategy for Growth and 
Social Protection. 
More specifically, the operation would support improving the government’s capacity to 
implement a set of policy measures detailed in the GSPS aimed at; improving the legal, 
regulatory and institutional environment to facilitate private sector-led growth and better 
targeting its social protection measures. 
3. Preliminary 
description 
The FY06-09 OECS CAS proposed a Development Policy Loan (DPL) for Dominica to support 
policy reform efforts in the areas of growth and competitiveness (based on the findings of the 
2005 Growth and Competitiveness Report). However, following consultations with the 
Government and other development partners including the IMF, European Union and DFID, it 
was agreed that a technical assistance support operation would be a more appropriate instrument. 
First, this instrument is in keeping with all the elements of the agreed parameters and second, the 
instrument responds more directly to the request of the Government for sustained technical 
assistance to implement polices on which the Government has already registered strong 
Page  3
commitments. Third, the choice of instrument responds to the lessons learned from previous 
operations i.e. that there is a need for significant capacity-building measures and technical 
assistance to support the design and implementation of the reform program, and that, timely 
delivery of technical assistance is critical to maintaining progress in the reform areas.  
The technical assistance operation from the Bank is designed to leverage and complement 
significant budget support from the European Union as well as possible support from DFID. The 
Bank TA operation would be in the amount of US$1.45 million which would be complemented 
by US$0.61 million of TA grant from the EU
1
,
bringing the total project cost to US$2.06 million. 
In parallel, the EU is proposing to provide approximately 10.5 million euros (US$12.72 million) 
of budgetary support tied to the Bank’s program of support and disbursed in three tranches 
during 2006-2008 based on conditions agreed under the Bank’s operation. 
The proposed operation is a multi-sector program to support the medium-term strategic reform 
agenda of the Government’s GSPS in key areas, sequenced over a three year period to reflect the 
country’s limited implementation capacity. The design of the operation reflects Dominica’s 
potential sources of growth and the key issues and constraints to private sector-led growth 
including; poor investment climate, high cost of electricity, and rigid labor market which have 
been highlighted in the recent analytical work done by the Bank and other donors. The multi-
sector design also reflects the need to be more holistic to ensure the simultaneous targeting of the 
most binding constraint to growth. The specific components of the operation are detailed below: 
1. Investment Climate 
The objective of this component is to improve the investment climate, first through a diagnostic 
of current investment climate situation based on an available investment roadmap prepared in 
2004 with support from USAID, followed by the prioritization of actions to improve it. The sub-
components include: Specific actions to reform the growth institutions viz: Dominica Export 
Import Agency (DEXIA), the National Development Corporation and the Agricultural and 
Industrial Development Bank; defining and implementing regulations affecting entry and exit of 
businesses; and developing an investment promotion strategy based on the investment roadmap.  
 
2. Regulatory framework (Energy and Agricultural sectors)  
(a) Energy 
The objective of this component is to liberalize the production and distribution of electricity to 
lower cost and improve competitiveness. The specific sub-components include: (i) Enactment of 
a
new Electricity Supply Act and related legislation; (ii) establishment of a regulatory 
commission to provide regulatory oversight for the electricity sector; (iii) enactment of an 
Alternative Energy Act to provide the legal and regulatory framework for the development of 
alternative energy sources including hydropower, wind and geothermal energy; and (iv) 
consolidation of national regulatory framework and transition to a regional regulatory regime to 
lower country transaction cost as well as to depoliticize the regulatory regime. 
 
1
This will be channeled through a Trust Fund implemented by the Bank. 
Page  4
(b)  Agricultural exports
 
The objective of this component is to improve the quality of the agricultural exports from 
Dominica to increase the penetration of regional and international markets. The primary 
component is the elaboration of policies to support the establishment and application of 
standards for agricultural produce, to enhance agricultural exports. 
 
3. Public sector reform  
This component will focus on streamlining of the public sector to increase the efficiency of 
service delivery whilst lowering costs and on strengthening control over public finance and to 
increase the transparency and efficiency of public procurement.: The sub-components include: (i) 
modernization of customs, including the establishment of an intelligence unit; (ii) comprehensive 
training supporting the use of ASYCUDA++, the adoption of a Risk-based Assessment System 
and a succession policy for senior management; (iii) improve functioning of magistracy to 
strengthen the commercial justice system; (iv) modernization of Registry including the full-scale 
computerization of Companies and Trade Marks section to allow for on-line business 
registrations and searches; (v) preparing a new Financial Accountability and Audit Act to be 
submitted to Parliament; (vi) strengthening of financial management; (vii) implementation of 
procurement action plan; and (viii) taking measures to integrate where possible into the pooled 
procurement initiative being piloted between Grenada and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 
 
4. Labor market reforms  
The objective of this component is to reduce the rigidity in the labor market. This will involve 
reviewing labor market laws and regulations with a view to making them consistent with the 
CSME provisions; implementing recommendations from the labor market review to be 
conducted under the support of the proposed TA; improving labor market data to make labor 
market programs, including training more responsive to the requirements of the labor market. 
 
5. Social protection reform 
 
The objective of this component is to rationalize and improve the targeting of the existing social 
assistance programs in Dominica. Sub-components will include: developing a more effective and 
efficient system to identify beneficiaries, including a poverty map and mechanisms to target 
households for various benefits; instituting a MIS system to support targeting; merging of 
duplicative programs to reduce administrative costs. 
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
This operation is rated category C. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
1.45 
 Total 
1.45 
 
Page  5
6. Contact point 
Contact: Errol George Graham 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 202-458-4671 
Fax: 202-676-1494 
Email: EGraham@worldbank.org 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington D.C 20433
 
