Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2570 
Project Name 
Growth and Social Protection Technical Assistance Credit 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General public administration sector (40%);Power (30%);General 
industry and trade sector (26%);General agriculture, fishing and 
forestry sector (4%) 
Project ID 
P094869 
Borrower(s) 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica 
Dominica 
Ministry of Finance 
Dominica 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
September 7, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 11, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 9, 2006 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Dominica has been successful in stabilizing its economy from a near crisis in 2001-2002 when 
output contracted by some 10 percent. The crisis was, in large part, the result of the expansionary 
fiscal policy pursued by the Government in the late 1990s and early 2000s. A confluence of 
adverse factors in 2001, including a severe drought, the adverse impact of the September 11, 
2001 terrorist attacks, on the tourism industry, the accumulation of arrears, and very limited 
access to external financing pushed the economy into a deep recession. The overall public sector 
balance deteriorated from a surplus of 3.3 percent of GDP in 1995/1996 to a deficit of 10.9 
percent of GDP by 2000/2001 and the public debt peaked at 130.8 percent of GDP in 2003. The 
Country Poverty Assessment (CPA) conducted in 2002 found that 39 percent of the population 
and 29 percent of the households in Dominica were poor. 
 In mid-2003, the government adopted a focused two-stage adjustment strategy which sought to 
foster growth and ensure debt sustainability. The first stage focused on achieving 
macroeconomic stability through a large fiscal adjustment and collaborative debt restructuring. 
This effort was supported by an IMF Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) and the 
Bank’s Economic Recovery Support Operation (ERSO) in 2004. The economy stabilized in 
2004, with GDP growth of 3.6 percent compared with a GDP contraction of 4.7 percent in 2002. 
Inflation which had risen from 0.4 percent in 2002 to 2.9 percent in 2003 fell to 0.8 percent in 
2004. The overall central government balance improved from a deficit of 5.4 percent of GDP in 
2002 to a much smaller deficit of 0.9 percent of GDP in 2004. Over the same period, the primary 
balance improved from a deficit of 1.6 percent of GDP to a surplus of 3.6 percent of GDP. The 
Page  2
stock of public sector debt also fell from 126.7 percent of GDP in 2002 to 116.1 percent of GDP 
in 2004. 
The second stage of the adjustment strategy, being implemented by the new Government of 
Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit is aimed at implementing key structural reforms to establish the 
basis for private sector-led sustainable growth and poverty reduction. This second stage of the 
adjustment strategy, based on continuing fiscal restraint and structural reforms, as well as on 
measures to foster growth and reduce poverty, including maintaining and strengthening the 
social safety net, constitutes a major pillar of the Government’s Medium-term Growth and Social 
Protection Strategy (GSPS). 
The GSPS which encapsulates the country’s Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) provides the 
framework for Dominica’s economic and social policies over the next five years (2005/06 -
2009/10) and sets out: the macroeconomic framework; the growth strategy, including the 
enabling framework for private enterprise, sectoral strategies and poverty reduction and social 
protection programs. It also provides for the monitoring and evaluation of progress made in 
implementing the strategy on an annual basis. In order to build strong public ownership for the 
strategy, the Government has held wide consultations in the drafting of the GSPS.  
The proposed operation is fully consistent with the FY06-09 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) 
for the OECS sub-region, including Dominica, which was discussed by the Board in September 
2005.
1
The two pillars of the CAS are (i) stimulating growth and improving competitiveness and 
(ii) reducing vulnerability by promoting greater social inclusion and strengthening disaster risk 
management. The CAS presents a new way of doing business to help countries in the sub-region 
meet the challenges facing them at this critical stage of their development. The guiding 
principles of the CAS are: (a) supporting regional integration and coordination efforts; (b) 
partnering and harmonizing in both lending and analytical work with other development 
partners; and (c) an active pursuit of simplification and capacity building initiatives tailored to 
small states. The project’s four strategic areas focused on spurring private sector led growth and 
improving social protection are therefore fully consistent with the thrust of the CAS. 
In recognition of the high debt levels in most of these small states, including Dominica, the 
Bank’s activities under the CAS proposed the use of innovative mechanisms to leverage 
available donor grant financing. The proposed operation, in addition to its support for both pillars 
of the CAS of improving growth and competitiveness and reducing vulnerability, also 
emphasizes the CAS guiding principle of using IDA and IBRD resources to leverage grant 
resources. The EU will provide approximately US$12 million in grants for budgetary support 
and US$0.58 million for technical assistance (through a Bank administered trust fund).  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The proposed operation is designed to enhance the capacity of the public sector to implement 
focused reforms geared at improving the public sector delivery of services as well as creating the 
institutional and policy framework to facilitate private sector led growth. In addition, the 
1
Country Assistance Strategy for the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States for FY06-FY09.  Report No. 33118-
LAC.  World Bank. 
Page  3
operation will strengthen the Government’s capacity to plan and administer its social protection 
programs to ensure that the benefits from growth are equitably distributed for poverty reduction.  
More specifically, the operation would support building the government’s capacity to implement 
and monitor a set of policy measures and actions detailed in the GSPS aimed at: (i) making the 
public sector more efficient and effective; (ii) improving the investment climate; (iii) reforming 
the regulatory framework for the energy sector; and (iv) improving social protection.   
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
The technical assistance operation from the Bank is designed to leverage and complement 
significant budget support from the European Union. The Bank TA operation would be in the 
amount of US$1.45 million which would be complemented by US$0.58 million equivalent of 
Government counterpart resources and US$0.58 million of TA grant from the EU
2
,
bringing the 
total project cost to US$2.6 million. In parallel, the EU is proposing to provide approximately 
10.5 million euros (US$12.72 million) of budgetary support aligned to the Bank’s program of 
support. 
The design of the operation reflects Dominica’s potential sources of growth and the key 
constraints to private sector-led growth. The operation is designed to support the second stage of 
Dominica’s two stage strategy for re-establishing the basis for sustained growth and poverty 
reduction. The first stage which focused on achieving macroeconomic stability has been largely 
successful. The second stage is aimed at implementing key structural reforms to establish the 
basis for sustained private sector-led growth and poverty reduction.  
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
This operation is rated category C. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0.57 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
1.45 
EUROPEAN UNION  
0.58 
 Total 
2.6 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Errol George Graham 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 202-458-4671 
Fax: 202-676-1494 
Email: EGraham@worldbank.org 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington D.C 20433
2
This will be channeled through a Trust Fund implemented by the Bank. 
Page  4
