Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8966-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 15, 1991
Country Department II-
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Korean Won (W)
-   -  US$1 Qa= W 710
(February 1991)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
March - February
ABBREVIATIONS
BE        - Board of Education
EFB       - Education Facilities Bureau
ELPD      - Education Loan Projects Division
ICB       - International Competitive Bidding
KEDI      - Korea Educational Development Institute
KVTMA     - Korea Vocational Training and Management Agency
MOE       - Ministry of Education
O&M       - Operations and Maintenance
OSROK     - Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
PCR       - Project Completion Report
PPAR      - Project Performance Audit Report
STD       - Science and Technical Division
TRC       - Technical Repair Center
VED       - Vocational Education Division
VET       - Vocational Education and Training
VHS       - Vocational High School
VTI       - Vocational Training Institute



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-i1-
KOREA
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
OAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY            ...iii
I.  VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING IN KOREA  . . . . . . .1
A.  Introduction .1...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
B.  Vocational Training Institutes . . . . . . . . . . .            2
C.  Vocational High Schools  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            4
D.  Bank's Role in Education . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           10
II.  THE PROJECT..12
I .    TE P O E T.   .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .  .    .  .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .  1
A.  Origin of the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             12
B.  Project Rationale, Objectives and Scope  . . . . . .           12
C. Project Design and Description . . . . . . . . . . .            13
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . .           15
A. Costs . ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  15
B.    Financing    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18
C.  Project Management and Implementation  . . . . . . .           18
D. Environmental Impact .21
E. Impact on Women .21
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS .21
A. Benefits .21
B. Risks .22
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ... .  .  .  .  .   .       22
The report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission which visited
Korea during February - March 1990 and an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. W.E. Rees (mission leader), S.Z. Sung and J.J. Stewart (consultants),
which visited Korea during June 1990. Peer reviewed were Messrs. G. Hunting
(AS5PH) and R. McGough (ASTPH). The documents were reviewed by
Messrs. Bradley 0. Babson, Chief, AS2PH), and Gautam S. Kaji, Director, AS2.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of-Contents (Cont'd)
Page No
TABLES IN TEXT
1.1  Enrollments in Vocational High Schools.  . . . . . . .
3.1  Summary of Project Costs by Component  .1 . .. . . . .                16
3.2  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure                   17
3.3 Financing Plan.18- -
3.4  Project Expenditure by Procurement Category  . . . . .                20
ANNEXES
1. Structure of Craftsman Training in Vocational Training Institutes
2. Outputs of Trained Craftsmen from Vocational Training Institutes
3. Enrollments by Course in Vocational High Schools
4. Chart - Organization of the Ministry of Education
5. Chart - Organization of a Board of Education
6. Chart - Procedures for Equipment Procurement
7. Detailed Project Costs
8. Project Expenditures by Year and Recipient
9. Implementation Schedule
10. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
11. Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAP   IBRD No. 22680



i ii -
KOREA
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower              Republic -f Korea
Beneficiaries'        Selected'vocational high schdols'
Amount                US$30.0 million equivalent
Terms                 Repayable in 15 years including 5 years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description         The overall objective of the project is to assist in
upgrading the skill training provided in selected
vocational high schools to ensure that their graduates
continue to meet the increasingly complex skill
requirements in industry, commerce, agriculture and
fisheries. The project would assist in making vocational
school graduates more productive upon entering employment
and better able to adjust to changing technological
processes. The project would include specialized
equipment to be financed by the Bank (US$30.0 million
including contingencies) for technical, commercial,
agricultural and fisheries/marine vocational high
schools. The Government would finance complementary
inputs related to making the equipment operational and
maintaining it thereafter, namely transportation and
installation costs, O&M and consumables (US$13.3
million).
Benefits and Risks:  The project would provide selected vocational high
schools with modern equipment which would be closely
attuned to the increasingly complex equipment utilized in
the industrial, commercial, agricultural, and fisheries
sectors. This would result in improved training which
would enhance the value of vocational high school
graduates to prospective employers by increasing their
usefulness immediately upon graduation and by improving
their ability to adjust to technological change in the
workplace. Thus, the continued employability of
vocational high school graduates would be assured, and
the productivity of the sectors in which the graduates
were employed would be enhanced.  There are no major
risks associated with the project.



Project Costs:
Local-    Foreign      Total
----- (US$ million)--
Technical Schools                           5.4        15.8        21.2
- Commercial Schools                          2.2        -6.6        8.8
Agricultural Schools                         1.3        3.8         5.1
Fisheries Schools                      0- O4            1.3         1.7
Baseline Cost                               9.3        27.5        36.8
Contingencies
Physical                                  0.5         1.4         1.9
Price increase                            1.9         2.7         4.6
Subtotal                               2.4         4.1        6.5
Total Project Cost /a                        11.7        31.6        43.3
Financing Plan:                              Local      Foreign      Total
-------(USS million)--
Government                                 11.7         1.6        13.3
IBRD                                         -         30.0        30.0
Total                                   11.7        31.6        43.3
Estimated Disbursements:
1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
Bank FY
Annual                              2.0   10.0   10.0    6.0    1.5    0.5
Cumulative                          2.0   12.0   22.0   28.0   29.5   30.0
la  Does not include duties, taxes and fees estimated at US$2.3 million.
Economic Rate
of Return:         Not applicable.
Map:   IBRD No. 22680



KOREA
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
I. VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING IN KOREA
A. Introduction
--T.-1 -  Investment-in education and -trai ning at: Ill leve-l-h*s payed la
prominent part in Korea's remarkable growth over the past three deLades.- As
the economy expanded and changed structurally, the education and training
system adjusted accordingly to keep pace with these changes. In the 1960s
when economic development was based largely on labor-intensive light
industries (textiles, footwear, etc.), the demand for highly skilled workers
was relatively modest and the major need was for developing the basic educa-
tion and skills of a rapidly expanding workforce. Thus priority was given to
the expansion of primary and lower secondary education with the result that
universal primary education was achieved by 1970 and lower secondary for all
by the late seventies. With the shift towards development of heavy and chemi-
cal industries in the 1970s and the increasing export orientation of industry
in general, the demand for skilled workers increased rapidly and greater
attention was given to vocational education and training. As industry evolved
towards increasingly technology-intensive production and high export volumes
in the 1980s, skill requirements became increasingly complex and fast-changing
and more emphasis was therefore placed on improving the quality of skills
training. At the same time, high technology development required an expansion
of training of scientists and engineers with the result that the 1980s saw a
rapid growth of enrollments in science and technology programs in the univer-
sities, especially at the graduate level.
1.2       Skilled workers or craftsmen occupy the base of the skill pyramid
supporting technicians, trained in the junior colleges and engineers and tech-
nologists who are university-trained. In Korea, a distinction is made between
vocational education and vocational training although both systems produce
skilled craftsmen. Vocational education is undertaken in public vocational
high schools (VHSs) which are part of the public secondary education system
(along with general high schools) under the overall direction of the Ministry
of Education (MOE). Private VHSs receive some financial support from, and are
closely regulated by, MOE. Selected VHSs will be assisted under the proposed
project. VHS students continue their general education while pursuing
vocational specializations. Vocational training institutes (VTIs), which may
be public or private, provide more narrowly-based skill training to school-
leavers. Graduates of both types of institutions must take the same skill
proficiency tests to qualify as an entry-level (Class II) craftsman.
Employers regard the VHS graduate as having more broadly-based skills compared
to the more narrowly-focussed VTI graduate and the VHS graduate is often
thought to be more flexible in fields where technology is changing rapidly and
retraining needs are frequent.
1.3       In terms of the overall demand for craftsmen, the shift noted above
towards more capital and technology-intensive production has retarded the



-2-
growth of craftsman tralning while raising the demana  for post-secondary tech - -
nical skills.  The output of craftsmen from the VTIs peaked in 1979-when it
- -    reached 129,000 and has since shown a downward trend to the output level of
57,900 in 1989. -Enrollment growth -in- the vocational high schoolt which
started to taper off in the early 1980s, peaked at 917,000 in 1986 and had
declined to 835,000 in 1989. This demonstrated that the vocational education
and training (VET) system is to some degree responsive to market signals and
-is not as-inflexible as VET systems in many countries, which continue to
produce graduates irrespective of declining or changing demand in the labor
market.  However, the decline in VHS enrollments has also been influen-ced by
the discontinuance in 1984 of the preference-given to VHS-graduates who -
applied to -colleges and universities to continue their specializations at the
higher level.
B. Vocational Training Institutes
1.4       The Government led the way in establishing vocational training in
Korea under the first Vocational Training Law of 1967. This law resulted in
the establishment of the first public VTIs. As the demand for skilled workers
increased, the growth of public VTIs could not keep pace and the 3overnment
therefore decided that the private sector should become an important provider
of vocational training. The Government also recognized that industry-based
training was likely to be more adaptable to changing skill needs than training
provided in formal institutions which by their nature were further removed
from the labor market. Training subsidies were introduced to encourage
private firms to undertake training and these were replaced in 1974 by man-
datory training requirements (para. 1.9). These policies have determined the
present structure of vocational training in Korea which comprises public
sector VTIs and private sector in-plant training institutions az.n institutions
"authorized" by the Government to provide training. The latter include
training in office-related skills.
1.5       Public vocational training programs are from one to three years
duration while private in-plant training lasts from 6 to 12 months and private
authorized training from 3 to 6 months. The vocational training system com-
prised 261 centers in 1989 with an output of around 57,900 craftsmen.li The
public sector accounted for 74 institutions with an output of about 22,100
craftsmen which represents about 28Z of the training institutions and 38Z of
output. Public sector training is undertaken in centers managed by central
government departments and local government bodies but the most significant
organization is the Korea Vocational Training and Management Agency (KVTMA).
It was established in 1982 to centralize the administration of public
vocational training institutions and to manage such central functions as
textbooks and curriculum development, skills testing for both the public and
private sectors and the preparation of skill and industry-specific demand
projections.  KVTMA controls 33 VTIs which account for about 70Z of the public
1/   In addition, 700 master craftsmen, 140 instructors and 4,435 supervisors
were trained in the system which also provided upgrading training to
16,230 workers already in employment.



sector training output.  The structure of craftsman training in the VTIs is
:outlined in Annex 1.
1.6       KVTMA centers traditionally drew their trainees from middle-school
graduates'and high school dropouts. However, with the achievement of almost
universal progression from middle to high school, increasing numbers of
trainees are bein8 recruited-from among high school graduates who have
-followed the general-education curriculum and are seeking skill training to
improve their prospects of employment.  Training expenses .are met by the
Government with the exception of a nominal charge for room and board which may
be waived in casess of economic necessity. The curriculum is about 302
theoret'ical an'd 701  p'racticil' for the techictlal skilig pirograms.  The theory
element breaks down into about 72 spent on general subjects to 23Z on
technical subjects. The practice element comprises basic practice (202) and
major practice (502). Graduates of the programs usually achieve skill
certification at the Class II craftsman level. Graduates from the KVTMA
centers enjoy very high pass rates in national skill tests and similar rates
of employment on graduation--about 952 in both cases.
1.7       The training of craftsmen in the VTIs is focused strongly on
training for the metal processing, transport and construction equipment, and
electronics and communications industries. Taken together, these industry
groups accounted for about 502 of the total output of craftsmen in 1989. On
the other hand, output from courses serving textiles and wood processing
accounted for only 121 of total outputs (Annex 2). This contrasts with the
structure of craftsman training during the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1977-81)
when outputs of craftsmen for metal processing, transport and construction
equipment, and electronics and communications were only 392 of total outputs
while craftsmen trained for textiles and wood processing accounted for 402 of
total outputs. This reflects how the structure of craftsman training has
changed in response to the changing nature of Korean industry which
increasingly has moved away from relatively labor-intensive, low-skill
industries such as textiles towards heavy industry and technology-intensive
fields such as electronics and communications.
1.8       The private sector is responsible for the major effort in vocational
training, accounting for 622 of the output of trained craftsmen in 1989. This
represents a significant shift in private sector training which accounted for
only 522 of training output in 1983. This trend reflects the Government's
policy of shifting increasing responsibility to the private sector which can
more effectively identify skill needs and provide training more efficiently
than public sector institutions.21 Large firms invest heavily in skill
training and maintain well-managed, generously-funded training centers. Such
individual centers account for about two-thirds of in-plant training. How-
ever, smaller firms lack the resources to establish training programs and,
with lower skill needs, such programs are often not practicable. They there-
fore share training costs with groups of similar finms or rely on recruitment
2/   Lee, Chingboon, "Financing Technical Education in LDCs:  Economic
Implications from a Survey of 1985 Training Modes in Korea, World Bank
Discussion Paper, September 1985.



-4-
in the market or directly from the public sector institutiona.  About 601 of
the graduates of KVTMA training institutions are recruited by small and medium
firms.
1.9       The shift of training efforts to the private sector disguises the
fact that in-plant training-of-craftsmen has declined in recent years.  The
growth in- private sector training has b-e-i in the "authorized" training
institutions which focus mainly on office-related skills.  Authorized training
produced around 6,500 craftsman-level workers in 1983 and this had grown to
19,500 in 1989, reflecting strong gxowth in the services sector of the
economy.  In the same period, outputs of craftsmen with technical skills from
in.-plant training institutions decifedi from around '2.00D td-1,6's.  This
downward trend reflects the failure of the Government's long-term priority to
boost in-plant training. When training subsidies were offered during 1968-71,
training efforts increased but immediately declined when the subsidies were
removed. In '974. the Government made in-plant training of a certain
percentage of employees (about 6.5Z in the beginning but later reduced)
mandatory for firms with over 500 employees (later reduced to 200). In 1976,
a training levy was introduced to be paid by all firms subject to mandatory
training which did not carry out this training. The proceeds of the levy are
placed in the Vocational Promotion Fund which supports public sector
vocational training.
1.10      The levy system has not been particularly effective in promoting
in-plant training. Bureaucratic regulations involving the preparation and
approval of training schemes made the levy system cumbersome, time consuming
and expensive from the employer's point of view. Furthermore, the levy was
determined annually on the basis of relative training costs in each industry.
Cost data proved difficult to compile and keep up to date with the result that
the levy fell well short of the artual cost of training. Thus many smaller
employers found it cheaper to pay the levy, forego training and recruit in the
labor market. Thus the levy came to be treated as just another business tax.
The Government has adjusted the levy amount to cover a greater proportion of
training costs--in 1986 the levy was raised to a level which covered about 752
of the cost of training. This compared with a 25? coverage in 1979. The levy
has been relatively unsuccessful because large firms were motivated to under-
take training regardless of the levy while smaller firms found it insufficient
as an incentive to encourage training, Recently, the Government simplified
the levy from an amount based on training costs to a payroll tax. This
obviates the need to produce an annual survey of training costs for each
industry but the impact of this change on the amount of training provided is
not yet apparent.
C. Vocational High Schools
1.11      Secondary education in Korea comprises two streams - general and
vocational - both of three years' duration (grades 9-12). General high
schools are academically oriented and aim largely at preparation for higher
education. Vocational high schools aim at continuing general education to
grade 12 while at the same time providing sufficient vocational education to
permit graduates to find employment in their fields of specialization. In
1989, enrollments in general high schools were about 1,491,000 and in



. . . . ~- 5 -    :
vocational schools, around a35,000.  Entry to both streams is based on
scholactic record in junior high school, interviews and the results of entry
tests. -
1.12      Structure and Enrollments.  The VHS system comprises several
different types of schools.  'Vocational' schools offer training in only one
skill; 'comprehensive' schools teach one or-more skill and also have general
secondary courses: 'technical' schools (formerly called "engineering' schools)
teach industrial skills with strong emphasis on machinery, electricity, elect-
ronics and engineering drawing; 'commerciall schools focus mainly on clerical,
secretarial, information processing and aocounting&  ^ar-1"lture        w
emphasaz.-ag&iictlture  horticulture and animal husbandry;  and 'fisheries and
marine' schools focus on fishing, fish breeding, marine engine maintenance and
navigation/communications. Enrollments in 1989 in the-different types of
schools are as follows:
Table 1.1: ENROLLMENTS IN VOCATIONAL HIGH SCHOOLS
(1989)
Enrollments ('000)
Type of School               Total     Female      I Female    2 by Type
Commercial                   377.2      297.4        78.8        45.2
Technical                    197.1        3.2         1.6        23.6
Comprehensive                187.4      116.4        62.1        22.4
Agricultural                  44.4        5.2        11.7         5.3
Vocational                    19.2       12.5         6.5         2.3
Fisheries and Marine           9.9        0.2         2.0         1.2
Total                        835.2      434.9        52.1       100.0
1.13      Overall, females accounted for about 52? of total enrollments in
1989 and are heavily concentrated in the commercial schools and in office-
related courses in the comprehensive schools. Details of enrollments by
course and sex are given in Annex 3. About 97? of total female enrollments
are in commerce, information processing, accounting and secretarial courses
and the remainder mainly in horticulture. Females comprise 75Z of total
enrollments in these courses.  This largely reflects the traditional prefe-
rence of female students for office-related courses rather than technical
skills courses and this bias seems to have strengthened even more as the
services sector expanded rapidly in recent years. In 1982, 95? of total
female enrollments were in commerce, secretarial and related courses.
1.14      Vocational high schools can also be classified by the type of
organization that operates them namely public, private or national. The
system of 588 schools is structured as follows:



-6 -
(a)  312 public VHSs- (vith total- enrllments ,of 3i6,100) are operated
under the general supervision of provincial or city boards of'
education-,
(b)  273 private schools (512,600) operated by individuals or under the
supervision of corporations; and
.,. (c) 'three national schools (6,450)-which are centers of excellence under
the direct supervision of the Vocational Education'Division (VED) of
MOE.31
1.A5i.   )Fanagement.  There are-three key levels in the management of the VHS
system.  First, the Ministry 6f Education-(Aine-x  4) is zespon6ibls for the
allocation of budgetary resources through the local education boards (para.
1.16). MOE also exercises overall control over standards in both public and
private schools. The latter include prescribed standards for equipment,
teacher qualifications, curricula, studentiteacher ratios etc. Second, local
administration of the system is the responsibility of nine provincial and six
city boards of education. Working within MOE-prescribed standards and
procedures, the boards have the authority to allocate budgetary resources to
schools and audit their accounts, set enrollment targets, appoint, assign and
transfer teachers, plan and implement in-service teacher training programs,
review the performance of schools etc. In respect of these activities, both
public and private schools generally receive similar treatment. Third,
individual schools are responsible for the selection of students (within the
targets set by the boards), scheduling of classes, maintenance of building and
equipment. Private schools are also able to recruit teachers directly subject
to their meeting MOE-specified qualifications.
1.16      The 4ey management agency is the board of education (BE) (Annex 5)
because it has direct responsibility for implementing MOE's policies and also
for applying its standards and guidelines to school operations. Prom the
perspective of the proposed project, the BEs are key agencies in the selection
of participating schools and in the identification of equipment requirements.
Boards of education have mostly elected members and have powerful staffs which
are headed by superintendents who are also board members. Superintenoents are
appointed by the President and carry a rank equivalent to vice-minister. This
is an indication of the status and authority of the boards. The administra-
tion of VHSs is the responsibility of the Science and Technical Division (STD)
of the School Affairs Bureau of the BE. Staffing of a STD varies in size but
typically it has around 10 senior education supervisory staff (usually former
school principals) who undertake a major review of the performance of public
and private schools every 2-4 years. Formal procedures exist for resolving
any problems highlighted during school performance reviews culminating in
direct intervention by the BE in the operations of delinquent schools. The
decentralized management system is effective largely because the BEs have been
31 The three national VHSs are public technical schools which were set up by
presidential decree. As centers of excellence they are better endowed
than the average VHS in terms of equipment, teachers and overall resource
allocations.



_7                                7
delegated major responsibilities by MOE and have the prestige to attract able
and influential people as members.  The quality of the boards' staff is
generally high and this leads to effective support for, and supervision of,
individual schools.
1.17      Financing.  The vocational high schools are financed mainly by
budgetary allocations in the form of grants-in-aid and by tuition fees. In
the case of private schools, endowaments alsc provide some income.  A
relatively small contribution is also made by parent and teacher associations.
Grants-in-aid are provided by MOE to the education boards on the basis of
standardized unit costs for different types of schools and enrollment levels.
The'boards of educa'tion then allocate'resources to each school based on a
budget the school has prepared. Grants-in-aid finance the gap between the
revenue generated by the schools and its total annual outlays. For private
schools the grants are regarded as subsidies which are justified, in part, by
MOE's control over private school tuition fees. These fees are always set
equal to public school fees and reflect the view that since VHSs have tradi-
tionally served lower income groups, these groups should not be disadvantaged
in access to a VHS if no public school ±s available.
1.18      The level of subsidy to private schools varies with their in.ome but
is in the range of 45-702. Tuition fees for VHSs (W 150,000-441,600 p.a.)
are often lower than fees for general high schools (W 220,800-441,600 p.a.)
partly for the socio-economic reason of serving lower income groups, but also
because the Government views vocational education as an economic investment
while general education is regarded as an investment in the individual.
Recognition that VHSs generally serve lower income groups is also reflected in
the level of financial assistance awarded in the form of scholarships and fee
exemptions. In 1989 about 312 of enrollments in VHSs received some form of
financial assistance compared with about 172 of enrollments in general high
schools. Assistance was the equivalent of 67Z of the annual minimum tuition
fee for a VHS student compared with 44Z for a general high school counterpart.
1.19      Curricula.  Standard curricula are prescribed by MOE for each type
of VHS, both public and private. The structure of the different curricula
vary but in general average about 35Z for general, academic subjects, 50% for
specialized, technical subjects and 15% for electives. The latter are work-
related subjects which can be varied by the local boards of education accord-
ing to skill needs in the local labor market. Practical experience is built
into the curriculum in the form of the Supervised Occupational Program. This
requires that all VHS students spend from one to six months in supervised
occupational experience in their final year. The duration of the experience
varies by type of school - one month for agriculture schools, three months for
technical and commercial schools and six months for fisheries and marine
schools. Apart from the valuable learning opportunity the period of practical
experience provides, many contacts are made with employers which lead to
employment offers on graduation.   Relations between schools and employers are
further strengthened through the Educational Committees for School - Industry
Cooperation. In addition to being involved with organizing the supervised
learning experience program, these committees assist in curriculum development
and the exchange of employment information.



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1.20      The VHS curricula are subject to major periodic reviews under the
management of the Korea Educational Development Institute (KEDI).  The fifth
review was recently completed and revisions are currently being implemented.
While the structure of the curricula remains largely unchanged following the
review. some greater emphasis has been given to science and English and a data
processing skills course has been introduced. The review process was rigorous
and detailed and was undertaken in two parts.  First, a study team of 270
teachers, academics and researchers reviewed the latest local and foreign
research on curriculum development and then, through the use of questionnaires
and visits to schools, examined the practical problems related to teaching the
existing curricula.  On the basis of these findings. a working group for
curriculum revision comprising 453 members drawn from the schools, univer-
sities, research institutes and industry prepared draft revisions to the
curricula. This process included visits to industry to obtain the views of
employers on curricular issues. On completion of the revised curricula,
revision of textbooks commenced and this exercise is expected to be completed
by mid-1991. Textbook revision is carried out by KEDI assisted by consultants
and the process is coordinated by MOE. Complementing these activities is the
restructuring of the standard equipment list as described in more detail below
(para. 1.22).
1.21      Equipment.  Standard equipment lists for each specialization taught
in the VHSs are available to each school. The lists represent the appropriate
mix of types and numbers of equipment items necessary to teach the various
curricula. None of the schools has been able to obtain 100? of the equipment
in the standard lists. The three national VHSs come closest with 80-90Z
coverage but most schools are in the 40-602 range. In nearly all instances,
the shortfall is in numbers of items rather than in the variety of equipment.
The schools have responded by tightly scheduling the use of equipmant and
raising the numbers of students who can practice on particular items of
equipment. This situation has led to efficient utilization rates for equip-
ment but with some loss in the quality of learning because of crowding in the
use of machines by students.
1.22      Periodic reviews of the standard lists, which accompany curricular
revisions, follow a similar process to the latter. Revision follows two main
steps--a basic study and survey of conditions in the schools followed by
revision of the lists with appropriate inputs from industry. The present
review of the lists is in its final stages and there is already clear evidence
that they are becoming outdated. The review indicates that significant
differences are emerging between the levels of sophistication of equipment
used for training in the VHSs and those of equipment in use in the workplace.
The discrepancies are due to the fact that equipment in the schools, has not
been replaced and modernized fast enough to keep pace with the rapid changes
in technology in recent years. Thus many items of equipment in the schools,
in addition to being old and nearing the end of their useful lives, also bear
little resemblance to the higher speed, greater precision and in many cases,
automated equipment that VHS graduates encounter when entering the factory or
office. Equipment to be financed under the proposed project would make a
major contribution to updating equipment in selected schools to bring it
closer in line with the needs of the workplace.-



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
- -: 
1.23      Arrangements for maintenance of equipment in the VHS system are
generally satisfactory. All basic maintenance is conducted in the schools by
the staff.  Major repairs are carried out in the central Technical Repair
Center (TRC) in Seoul.  Teams from the TRC visit each school at about six
monthly intervals to assist in the more complex maintenance tasks. Equipment
in need of major repair which cannot be carried out in the schools is sent to
the TRC in Seoul. To provide more effective service, maintenance staff are
being increased at the TRC to enable school visits-to be made every three
months.  The TRC is adequately funded by MOE and is receiving equipment
financed by Japanese aid. In addition to repair work, the TRC also produces
equipment maintenance manuals for the schools and conducts maintenance
training for schools' staff.-                     -                        - .
1.24      Teachers.  The vocational high schools in Korea have been able to
attract well-qualified teachers in contrast to the common experience else-
where. This is partly due to the relatively high prestige of teaching as a
profession in Korea and also to relatively high salaries. The latter are not
comparable to those in industry but the difference is not as large as is
commonly found elsewhere. Classroom teachers of both vocational and general
subjects are required to have a four-year degree plus additional units of
pedagogy if they are not graduates of a school or faculty of education. At
present, 35 universities and colleges are producing teacher candidates for the
general subjects taught in VHSs and a mixture of 21 agricultural, engineering,
fisheries and marine colleges are producing teachers for vocational subjects.
Thus there is no shortage of candidates for teaching in the VHSs and recruit-
ment is competitive. In 1989, 18,126 candidates applied for the 11,935
available teaching positions. Laboratory and workshop teachers are trained in
two-year junior technical colleges and are classified as assistant teachers.
However, practical teaching is not the sole preserve of assistant teachers -
in schools where they are not on staff, the vocational subject teachers handle
practical instruction.
1.25      In terms of total staffing, the level is reasonable with an overall
student/staff ratio of 25:1. However, the endowment of teachers for voca-
tional courses is less satisfactory, averaging over 40:1. Although general
subjects account for only about 35Z of the curriculum, the teachers of these
subjects comprise 52Z of the total teacher stock. Although this is only a
rough indicator, it does suggest that some teacher resources could be
reallocated in favor of vocational subjects. Teachers are well qualified,
with 912 having at least a bachelor's degree or equivalent. They are also
highly experienced with nearly 502 having over 10 years experience. Voca-
tional teachers, whose background is largely pedagogical rather than
industrial, spend periods in industry under the provisions of the
Institutional Cooperation Act. There are also provisions under the Act for
specialists in industry to hold appointments as part-time lecturers in the
schools. In-service teacher training is widespread and focusses mainly on
upgrading skills for promotion. Courses are held during semester breaks in
local universities and colleges.
1.26      Employment of Graduates.  On completion of the three-year VHS
course, graduates sit for a certification test for Class II Craftsman
administered by the Ministry of Labor. Pass rates are around 75Z which,
although lower than those for VTI graduates, nevertheless represent a



1X -
satisfactory achievement given the structure and objectives of VHS courses
which are to produce both educated and skilled individuals. Since employment
levels for VHS graduates are higher than the skill test rates, employers are
clearly ptepared to recruit some VHS graduates even without skill certifica-
tion. In 1989, the status of about 91Z of graduates for that year was
identified, totalling about 237,000 graduates. Of this number, 102 entered
higher education, 822 were employed, 72 were unemployed and the remainder
entered military service. This represents a clear improvement over-1982 when
only 582 were employed and 21? unemployed. However, 1982 was a recession year
in the economy and this emphasizes the sensitivity of employment prospects for
VHS graduates to overall economic conditions.
1.2.7   -  Future-prospects for the employment of VHS griduates are somewhat
unclear.  As noted previously (para. 1.3), enrollments were declining in the
late eighties in response, a least in part, to the changing structure of the
labor market which was demanding higher skill levels as industry and commerce
become more technology intensive. However, employers in the industrial and
services sectors are now claiming that they are facing significant shortages
of skilled craftsmen. The Government has responded with a plan for the long
term expansion of VHS enrollments to achieve an enrollment ratio of 50:50
between vocational and general high schools, compared with the current ratio
of 36:64 in favor of the general high schools. To achieve this by 2000 would
require a VHS enrollment of about 1.05 million in that year, an increase of
215,000 in annual enrollments over the 1989 level. No projections of the
demand for skills are available so it is difficult to assess whether the
additional graduates would find employment. However, it is likely that the
Government would begin to reduce the rate of increase in enrollments if
significant unemployment emerged. Alternatively, if rising unemployment were
to eventuate, the growth of VHS enrollments could be self-regulating as
students switched from vocational to general high schools with the hope of
entering higher education as an alternative to entering the labor market. The
above issues would need careful analysis in any Bank-financed follow-up
operation in vocational education.
D. Bank's Role in Education
1.28      The Bank has assisted Korea's technology development efforts through
substantial support for the development of technical and scientific education
and research.41 Bank lending has been consistent with Korea's needs and
priorities in education and has closely paralleled the increasing sophistica-
tion of Korean industry. It was recognized that the restructuring of industry
towards more skill-intensive, high-technology production would require the
continuous expansion and upgrading of technical skills.  Thus as industry
developed towards greater skill-intensiveness, Bank assistance to education
moved from support for craftsman and technician training through professional
41   The Bank has also provided major support to technology development
through directly financing R&D programs, strengthening intermediaries
which finance R&D and providing credit for industrial development in
general.



- 11 -
engineering education to graduate engineering programs and associated re-search
activities.
1.29      The Bank's initial involvement in the sector under four loans/
credits, focussed on the development of vocational and technical education at
the secondary and post-secondary levels to strengthen the base of the system
for producing technical personnel. Project performance audit reports (PPARs)
for these projects concluded that they were in general well-conceived and
successfully implemented. The first education project in Korea (Cr. 151-KO)
supported the expansion of vocational high schools, junior technical colleges
and teacher training. It. also financed technical assistance and fellowships
to strengthen the planning and administration of vocational and technical
eddcation.  The PPAR for tKe'lboani(Report No. llOl-KO, November 22. 1977)
concluded that physical implementation was satisfactory but that some delays
were experienced in recruiting and utilizing the experts under the technical
assistance component. The latter could have been overcome by more careful
scheduling and a clearer definition of the experts' functions.
1.30      The second education project (Ln. 9061Cr. 394-KO) financed equipment
for vocational high schools, junior technical colleges and undergraduate
programs in science, engineering and education. The PPAR for the project
(Report No. 4509, May 24, 1983) concluded that the project was implemented
substantially as planned but with some delays due to over-optimistic schedul-
ing. The third education project (Ln. 1096-KO) continued to support expansion
and quality improvement in vocational high schools and junior colleges and for
vocational training institutes under the Ministry of Labor. The project was
implemented successfully and demonstrated the growing experience and
competence of local project staff. The fourth education project (Ln. 1474-KO)
supported a further expansion of VTIs and expansion and improvement of
instructor training. The project completion report (PCR) for the project
(Report No. 5516, March 8, 1985) concluded that the project was well designed,
implemented efficiently and judged the project to be an excellent example of
Bank/Borrower cooperation. It is reasonable to conclude that the first four
projects demonstrated that the increased competence of local authorities led
to improved project design and implementation. Project experience also
demonstrated that there was a need to take a broader view of sectoral policies
and issues after the implementation of four conventional projects. This was
taken up in the two subsequent operations which were policy-oriented sector
loans.
1.31      The first education sector loan (Ln. 1800-KO) concentrated on
upgrading junior technical colleges and university colleges of engineering and
management through the supply of equipment, staff development and institu-
tional improvements in curriculum development, manpower planning, equipment
maintenance and academic accreditation. The PPAR for the loan (Report No.
7252, May 24, 1988) indicates that the major lessons learned were: (a) a
stable and responsible sector management agency was the key to successful
implementation of the sector program; (b) the sector approach led to a quicker
and more sustainable development of institutional capabilities; and (c) the
additional time required for preparation was repaid in terms of more efficient
implementation.



-12-
12.s    -The second education sector loan (Ln. Z427-KO), which incorporated
these.lessons. assisted in supporting improvements in graduate education in
science and engineering, upgrading secondary school and college science
programs, expanding graduate research programs. improving sector management
and manpower monitoring and strengthening the financial base of private
educational institutions. Implementation of the loan was satisfactory and it
closed on schedule (June 30, 1989) with its major policy objectives having
been achieved. A PCR for the project is currently under preparation. The
Bank's positive role in Korea's education sector is documented in the OED
report titled Review of the Impact of World Bank Lending for Educational
Development in Korea (Report No. 5950; December 4, 1985).
l.33~-- Following these-education projects the Bank-turned-its attention to
supporting research activities in the universities and the national research
institutes under the first two technology advancement projects, although each
contained a component assisting science and engineering education. Ln. 3037-
KO assisted in improving the quality of science and engineering education at
the Korea Institute of Technology, a center of excellence for the under-
graduate teaching of gifted students in science and mathematics. Ln. 3202-KO
supported quality improvement at the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and
Technology, the leading graduate school in science and engineering.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Project
2.1       The Government included the project in its FY91 list of projects
suitable for external financing and formally asked the Bank for assistance in
December 1989. Most of the preparation work was completed by the Government
according to guidelines formulated by the Bank. The project was preappraised
in February-March 1990 and appraised in June 1990.
B. Project Rationale, Objectives and Scope
2.2       The Bank has supported the development of technical and scientific
personnel over the past two decades.  In six operations, lending has
paralleled Korea's technological development. Early lending focussed on
vocational training for skilled craftsmen and technician training, and then
shifted to support for undergraduate programs in engineering and science
followed by assistance to graduate programs and research activities in these
fields. Appropriate emphasis was also placed on improving the policy frame-
work for technical and scientific training. The proposed project is reverting
to assistance to vocational training in recognition of the need for the train-
ing system to keep pace with the demand for increasingly complex craftsman-
level skills in the labor market. The craftsman occupies the base of the
skill pyramid and the project is therefore helping to ensure that the system
of technical training, which has contributed so much to Korea's industrial
development, continues to have a strong foundation.
2.3       Through its long association with vocational and technical training
in Korea, supported by recent sector work, the Bank has developed a signifi-
cant comparative advantage in these fields. Bank assistance is still required



-13
to fill gaps- in investment programs of educational institutions which tradi-
tiotally have relied on external financing to meet equipment upgrading needs.
Moreover, the Bank's involvement in project design and appraisal brings value-
added to the Ministry of Education through helping to strengthen its capabili-
ties in these areas. The Bank brings continuity to the project development
process and has developed criteria-based procedures and documentation which
not only allow projects to be designed more efficiently, which benefits MOE,
but which also may have wider application in the future as Korea becomes a
donor supporting educational development elsewhere.
2.4       The overall objective of the project is to assist in upgrading the.
skill training provided in selected vocational high schools to ensure that
their graduates continue to meet the increasingly complex skill requirements
of industry, commerce, agriculture and fisheries. The project, to be carried
out over a period of 5.5 years, would assist in making VHS graduates more
productive upon entering employment and better able to adjust to changing
technological processes. The project would finance specialized equipment
through the proposed Bank loan and complementary inputs (O&M, consumables,
etc.) to be financed by the Government.
C. Project Design and Description
2.5       The status of equipment provision in the vocational high schools is
measured against standard equipment lists which vary in content among the
different types of schools. The overall average provision for all schools is
about 53Z with the best equipped being the commercial schools (572) and agri-
culture schools (572), followed by technical (51Z) and fisheries/marine
schools (492). These figures indicate that the VHSs are considerably below
standard requirements in terms of equipment provision. However, the situation
is not as serious as it appears. Equipment deficiencies tend not to be so
much in termd of the range of equipment but rather in the numbers of items.
Thus the range of equipment is reasonably consistent with the curricula to be
taught but shortages of equipment items have led to the heavy scheduling of
equipment use and above average numbers of students using equipment items for
practice sessions. In a number of instances this has led to efficiencies
gained from high utilization rates but in other cases excessive overscheduling
has affected the quality of training. In addition, a number of equipment
items are obsolete and need to be replaced in line with changing technology in
the workplace (para. 1.22). The proposed loan of US$30 million would raise
the overall average equipment provision to 63Z, with commercial schools
increasing to 662, agricultural schools to 70X, technical schools to 57Z 51
and fisheries/marine schools to 782.
5/   The relatively low increase in percentage provision for the technical
schools does not reflect a lower priority but rather the fact that the
technical schools' component is predominant in the overall standard
equipment list for all VHSs. Although technical schools will be allocat-
ed 572 of loan proceeds, technical schools comprise 722 of the value of
the overall standard equipment list.



14  -
2.6       The vocational high- schools are under the overall control of the
Ministry of Education but local administration is the-responsibility of the
proVincial and city boards of education.  Since the BEs are closest to the
schools and therefore in the best position to understand their needs, they
have been given the responsibility for selection of schools to participate in
the proposed project. Each BE will select the schools to participate in the
project mainly on the basis of the level of overall equipment provision in the
schools, with the most disadvantaged being given priority.  Account will also'
be taken in specific instances of newly-established departments which need-to
be equipped with basic items.  Some attention will  also be given to the need
to improve equipment in particular departments in relation to newly-developing-
Local industry, e.g., electronics departments in areas where the electronics
industry is expanding.  Equipment for each school would be procured partly to
meet some of the shortfall in standard equipment items and partly for updated
equipment needed to teach more advanced technologies. The proportions would
vary according to the needs of each school. Both public and private schools
would have equal opportunities for participating in the project. During nego-
tiations, the Government gave assurances that schools would be selected for
participation in the project according to criteria acceptable to the Bank.
2.7       To ensure that equipment to be procured under the project reflects
overall development priorities and their regional implications, the Education
Facilities Bureau (EFB) of MOE has established an advisory committee compris-
ing officials and outside experts which would assist in determining priority
fields of study for each BE. On the basis of this committee's recommenda-
tions, EFB will allocate specific amounts of the loan proceeds to each BE for
specific types of vocational schools. Consequently, each BE will receive from
EFB a specific allocation of loan funds and identified priority fields of
study in which the funds will be spent. The BE will select the schools to
participate in the project according to the criteria mentioned above.
2.8       Each BE will form a committee of experts for each type of school to
assist it in determining how the loan funds allocated to it will be disbursed
among the schools. Members of this committee will visit each school to assess
the status of equipment in each selected school and, together with school
authorities, will prepare a final list of equipment to be procured for each
project school within the guidelines regarding fields of study.6/ The Edu-
cation Loan Projects Division of EFB, which is responsible for implementation
of the project (para. 3.7), will forward specifications for standard items of
6/   The process of selecting items of equipment to be financed under the
project will be facilitated by the fact that schools have already identi-
fied their equipment needs as part of a survey of all vocational schools.
These lists have been passed through the BEs to MOE where they have been
reviewed by the Education Loan Projects Division (ELPD), assisted by the
Vocational Education Division and outside consultants, to determine pri-
orities for equipment items in relation to curricula. Thus each school
selected under the project will already have a prioritized list of equip-
ment needs and each BE's committee of experts will review these priori-
ties in terms of the guidelines regarding fields of study (provided by
EFB).



- 15 -
equipment to each BE, as required, and will either review or prepare specifi-
cations for the more modern items:of equipment not included in the standard
lists of equipment at present. Each BE will group the equipment lists from
the project schools for competitive bidding and will forward these packages
directly to OSROK for procurement, with copies to ELPD. These procedures are
represented diagrammatically in Annex 6.
2.9       The amount of equtipment to be financed by the loan. (US$30 million
including contingencies) has already been determined by the Government and
represents a fixed amount within the foreign borrowing program. The equipment
forms the core of the project but in order to ensure that it is utilized
effectively? complementary inputs_must also-be-supplied. -These would be
financed by the Government and cover transportation and installation of equip-
ment, O&M and consumable materials. The Government would also finance contin-
gencies related to these components. Bank-financed equipment would be concen-
trated in four types of vocational schools - technical (US$17.1 million
including contingencies), commercial (US$7.2 million), agricultural (US$4.3
million) and fisheries/marine (US$1.4 million). This investment represents
assistance to a wide range of priority skill areas and would make a substan-
tial contribution to modernizing the school's equipment and thereby strengthen
the quality and relevance of vocational training.
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs
3.1       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$43.3 million equi-
valent net of duties and taxes. The estimated cost by project component is
summarized in Table 3.1 and by category of expenditure in Table 3.2. Detailed
costs by component and category are given in Annex 7 and project expenditure
by year and recipient in Annex 8.



- 16 _
Table 3.1:  SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Foreign
Won Billion               US$ Million        as X of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Total
Technical Schools        3.8    11.2      15.0    5.4       15.8   21.2      75
Commercia.1 Schools      1.6      4.7      6.3    2.2        6.6    8.8      75.
Agricultural Schools   0.9        2.7      3.6    1.3        3.8    5.1      75
Fisheries Schools        0.3     1.0       1.3    0.4        1.3    1.7      76
Baseline cost            6.6    19.6      26.2    9.3       27.5   36.8      75
Contingencies
Physical               0.3     1.0       1.3    0.5       1.4    1.9       75
Price increase         1.4     1.9       3.3    1.9       2.7    4.6       59
Subtotal            1.7      2.9       4.6    2.4       4.1    6.5       63
Total Project Cost /a  8.3    22.5        30.8   11.7       31.6   43.3      73
/a Does not include duties, taxes and fees estimated at US$2.3 million.



- 17 -
Table 3.2:  SUMKARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Foreign
Won Billion              US$ Million       as 2 of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Total
Equipment               -      18.9     18.9    -        26.6   26.6    100
Equipment trans-
-portation and'
installation          1.0      0.1      1.1    1.5       0.1    1.6      10
Operations and
maintenance            2.8     0.3      3.1    3.9       0.4    4.3      10
Consumable materials   2.8      0.3      3.1    3.9       0.4    4.3      10
Baseline cost         6.6    19.6     26.2    9.3      27.5   36.8      75
Contingencies
Physical              0.3     1.0      1.3    0.5       1.4    1.9      75
Price increase        1.4     1.9      3.3    1.9       2.7    4.6      59
Subtotal              1.7     2.9      4.6    2.4       4.1    6.5      63
Total prolect cost      8.3    22.5     30.8   11.7      31.6   43.3      73
3.2       Base costs are estimated at February 1991 prices.  Equipment costs
are estimated on the basis of master lists already drawn up and recent
catalogue prices. Transportation and installation costs, the initial supply
of consum-ables and the costs of operations and maintenance are based on
recent experience in the VHS system.   Duties and taxes, allowing for
exemptions, are estimated at US$2.3 million.
3.3       The contingency allowance of US$6.5 million (about 182 of baseline
costs) includes contingencies for unforeseen physical conditions and for esti-
mated price increases. Physical contingencies were estimated at 52 of base-
line costs for equipment, transportation and installation of equipment, con-
sumable materials and O&M expenditures. Price increase contingencies were -
calculated for both local and foreign costs in accordance with the following
expected annual average price increase percentages: foreign cost, 3.6? in
FY91 and thereafter and local cost, 5.0Z p.a. throughout. Accordingly, aggre-
gated price increases are estimated at about 122 of baseline costs plus physi-
cal contingencies.
3.4       The foreign exchange component of US$31.6 million (about 732 of
total estimated project costs) has been calculated on the basis of the
following foreign exchange percentages: equipment - 1002, transportation and
installation - 10?, consumables - 10?, and O&M - 10?.



-18-
B. Financing
3.5       The proposed loan of US$30.0 million equivalent would financec about
952 of the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project or about 69Z of
total project costs net of duties and taxes.  The Government would be respon-
sible for the remaining 311 or US$13.3 million equivalent. The loan aaount is
limited to US$30.0 million by the foreign borrowing program and is therefore
less than the foreign exchange cost of the project. The loan would finance
100X of the baseline cost of equipment plus all contingencies related to the
equipment. -Private schools participating in the project would not be required
to repay loan funds but would receive such funds as budget transfers from MOE
through the local boards of education.
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
Category of Expenditure                 Government        IBRD        Total
-US$ million-----------
Equipment                                 -               26.6         26.6
Equipment transportation
and installation                        1.6              -            1.6
Operations and maintenance                4.3              _            4.3
Consumable materials                      4.3              -            4.3
Contingencies                             3.1              3.4          6.5
Total                                13.3            30.0          43.3
Recurrent Expenditures
3.6       When fully operational, the project would generate recurrent costs
for consumable materials and O&M estimated at US$2.4 million p.a. This would
be spread over approximately 300 schools thus averaging about US$8,000 per
institution. These additional expenditures could be accommodated by the
institutions without difficulty.
C. Project Management and Implementation
3.7       Overall responsibility for project implementation would lie with the
Education Facilities Bureau of MOE - an agency that has gained considerable
experience in implementing Bank projects through its responsibility for
earlier Bank operations including the two education sector loans. Physical
aspects of the project would be handled within EFB by the Education Loan
Projects Division including relations with OSROK for equipment procurement.
Assistance on educational issues would be provided by the Vocational Education
Division (VED) of the Science and Technology Education Bureau of MOE. These
bodies are adequately staffed with qualified and experieticed personnel. An



- 19 -
organization chart for MOE is given at Annex 4. The project implenantation
schedule is shown in Annex 9.
3.8       The Education Loan Projects Division would be responsible for
routine correspondence and report ig to the Bank, and for financial and dis-
bursement matters. ELPD has played this role in previous Bank projects and is
staffed with experienced procurement personnel. However, the bulk of the work
in equipment procurement would be undertaken by OSROK, which is also highly
experienced ia procuring equipment under the Bank's irternational competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures. on the basis of equipment lists and specifications
provided by the local boards of education, OSROK would prepare bidding docu-
- ments-, invite bids,- evaluate them in--conjunction vith the 3EsB and make- c-on   -
tract awards. The schools would be responsible for installation, initial
testing and operation of the equipment, unless specified in the equipment
contract that the supplier would perform this task. The schools, assisted by
the Seoul Technical Repair Center if necessary, would also be responsible for
maintenance and repair of the equipment including acquisition of spare parts,
accessories and consumables, beyond the items and services initially supplied
under the contract. The Bank would supervise the project twice yearly around
March and September coinciding as far as possible with the preparation of the
semi-annual progress reports (para. 3.14). Overall implementation issues
would be handled by the task manager with technical aspects being the
responsibility of a consultant technical educator.
Status of Project Preparation
3.9       The advanced stage of project preparation would allow implementation
to commence immediately after loan signing. Criteria for the selection of
schools to be included in the project have been prepared and are acceptable to
the Bank (para. 2.6). Standard equipment lists have been updated and schools
have identified their equipment needs. Procedures are in place for reviewing
and finalizing these needs. Project management authorities have been identi-
fied and competent staff are available to handle implementation activities.
Procurement
3.10      Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 3.4.  About 85Z of the
equipment would be procured on the basis of ICB procedures in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines. Equipment items in contracts valued at less than
US$200,000 may be procured through international or local shopping with an
aggregate ceiling of US$4.5 million. Local equipment manufacturers would be
extended a 15Z preference margin, or the prevailing customs duties, whichever
is the lower, on bid evaluation under ICB. Transportation, operations and
maintenance costs on equipment would be financed by the Government under local
procedures. Installation costs and costs of consumables, if not included-in
the equipment contracts, would also be financed by the Government.



- 20 -
Table 3.4:  PROJECT EXPENPITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
Total cost
including
Category of expenditure        ICB       LOB    Other 1a      N/A   contingencies
-(US$ million) ----------------
Equipment                     25.5        -           4.5                30.0
(25.5)                 (4.5)              (30.0)
Equipment traspo-rtation
and installation             -          -           -       1.9         1.9
(0.0)      (0.0)
Operations and maintenance    -           -           -       5.7         5.7
(0.0)      (0.0)
Consumable materials            -         -           -       5.7         5.7
(0.0)      (0.0)
Total                    25.5        -          4.5    13.3         43.3
(25.5)      _          (4.5)   (0.0)      (30.0)
/a Includes international and local shopping.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the loan.
3.11      In accordance with successful practices for procurement under ICB
used in recent education and technology advancement projects in Korea, OSROK
would not be required to refer equipment contracts to the Bank for prior
review before making contract awards. However, complete bidding documents
including commercial terms, schedules of requirements and technical specifi-
cations would be sent to the Bank for reference and record before each invita-
tion to bid. Bid evaluation reports, documents and contracts would be
retained by OSROK for ex-post review by Bank missions.
Disbursements
3.12      The proposed loan of US$30.0 million would  E disb.arsed over a
period of 5.5 years (Annex 10). This corresponds to the standard disbursement
profile for education projects in Korea which is 5.5 years. The completion
date of the project would be December 31, 1995 and the closing date June 30,
1996. Disbursements would be made on the basis of (a) 1002 of foreign
expenditures for imported equipment or, 10OZ of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) for locally manufactured equipment; and (b) 65Z of local expenditures
for other equipment items procured locally. All reimbursement would be made
against statements of expenditure for which full supporting documentation
would be retained in MOE, for review as requested, by visiting Bank missions.
Administrative and accounting capability in MOE is adequate to support the SOE
procedure.
3-13      To facilitate disbursements, a special account, maintained in US
dollars, would be set up at the Korea Exchange Bank in an amount of US$2.0



- 21 -
million, to cover the estimated average amount required to finance project
expenditures for the next four monthb. Applications for replenishment of the
special account would be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis or when-
ever the amount requested exceeds 502 of the initial deposit, whichever comes
first.
Accounts, Audits and Reporting
3.14      MOE would maintain project accounts in accordance with sound
accounting practices. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances
that audited accounts and financial statements would be sent to the Bank
within six months of the end of the financial year.  The Government would
submit semi-annual progress reports to the Bank in about March and September,
provide status reports for visiting missions and, within six months of the
closing date, submit Part II of the project completion report.
D. Environmental Impact
3.15      The project will not have any negative impact on the environment.
The equipment to be supplied under the project will be located in properly
designed workshops which operate under standard safety procedures.
E. Impact on Women
3.16      The project would have its strongest impact on women through the
provision of equipment to support educational improvements in the commercial
schools.  Although girls comprise 52? of enrollments in the VHS system, they
account for 792 of enrollments in the commercial schools (Table 1.1). This
reflects the traditional preference of girls for office-related rather than
factory-related work. No discriminatory practices exist which would dis-
courage females from enrolling in industrial skills courses and the present
enrollment pattern is largely the result of the exercise of individual
preferences. High female enrollment in the commercial schools reflects the
continued shift of women into better paying jobs in the economic mainstream.
The project would contribute to producing better-trained female workers for
the service sector.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1       The project would provide selected vocational high schools with
modern equipment which would be more closely attuned to the increasingly
complex equipment utilized in the industrial, commercial, agricultural, and
fisheries sectors. This would result in improved training which would enhance
the value of vocational high school graduates to prospective employers by
increasing their usefulness immediately upon graduation and by improving their
ability to adjust to technological change in the workplace. Thus, the con-
tinued employability of vocational high school graduates would be assured, and
the productivity of the sectors in which the graduates were employed would be
enhanced.



- 22 -
B. Risks
4.2       There are no major risks associated with the project.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1       Government has agreed to the following:
(a) schools would be selected to participate in the project according to
criteria acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.6)
(b) audit reports would be submitted by the Government to the Bank
within six months of the end of each financial year (para. 3.14);
(c) within six months of the Closing Date, Part II of the project
completion report would be submitted to the Bank (para. 3.14).
5.2       Subject to the above conditions, the project constitutes a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$30.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Korea
for a term of 15 years, including 5 years of grace at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.



-23-
ANNEX I
KOREA
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Structure of Craftsman Training in Vocational Training Institutes
(1q89)
Training Agency       No. of Training Centers   Output of Trainees
Public Sector
KVTMA                          33                    15,620
Central Government             37                     4,998
Local Government                4                     1,490
Subtotal                   74                   22,108
Private Sector
In-plant                      107                    16,278
Authorized                     80                    19,542
Subtotal                  187                   35,820
Total                     261                   57,928



-24-
ANNEX 2
KOREA
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Output of Trained Craftsmen from Vocational Institutes
Output of Trainees
1989                 1977-81
Industry                        No.         z           No.          Z
Metal materials and manufacturing         1,234         2         19,530      4
Metal processing                         17,745        31         96,506    19
Transportation and construction
equipment                              10,205        18         67,827    14
Electricity                               3,681         6         19,114      4
Electronics and communicatins             6,197        11         28,708      6
Textiles                                  3,634         6        110,381    22
Wood processing                           3,266         5         88,464    18
Chemistry                                 1,275         2         22,986      5
Printing                                     90         -          6,809      1
Mining                                       77         -          9,989      2
Handicrafts                                 682         2          4,527      1
Food Processing                             719         1          9,289      2
Other                                     9,123        16         11,609      2
Total                               57,928        100       495,739   100



-2A-                              ANNEX 3
KOREA
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
ENROLLMENTS BY COURSE IN VOCATIONAL
HIGH SCHOOLS - 1989
Enrollments
('000)
Couz-se- -                     Total              Female           t Female-
Agriculture
Agriculture                     12.0                0.6                5.0
Horticulture                    11.7                3.7                3.2
Zootechnology                   13.6                0.2                1.5
Forestry                         3.4                0.1                2.9
Agricultural Eng.                4.6                -                  -
Other                            8.1                1.3               16.0
Sub-total               53.4                5.9               11.0
Industry
Machinery                       62.2                -                  -
Electricity                     31.4                -                  -
Electronics                     26.8                0.8                3.0
Chemical Eng.                   14.2                0.4                2.8
Communications                   3.4                0.2                5.9
Plumbing/Welding                 3.8                -                  -
Automobile                       3.2                -                  -
Architecture                    19.5                0.5                5.3
Civil Eng.                      18.3                -                  -
Other                           19.2                0.7                3.6
Sub-total              202.0                2.6                1.3
Commerce
Commerce                       336.9              270.2               80.2
Information Proc.              65.8                53.3               81.0
Accounting                      48.6               39.3               80.9
General                         98.7               50.5               51.2
Other                           15.4               10.6               68.8
Sub-total              565.4              423.9               75.0
Fisheries and Marine
Engine                           3.5                -                  -
Fishing                          2.1                -                  -
Communications                   1.6                -                  -
Navigation                       1.1                -                  _
Other                            2.5                0.2                8.0
Subtotal                10.8                0.2                1.9
Miscellaneous                    3.6                2.3               63.9
Total                         835.2               434.9               52.1



KOREA
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Organization of the Ministry of Education
Minister
Vice Minister
Public I                                            Edmrntry                   Senformatlon          Education Facil ltis     -
Offioer                                          Secondary______    T__      hnology_ureau__t__c
|  Olticer  }                               ~~~~~~~     ~      ~     ~~ducaison BraEducation Burea
r  - -   l  School FinanceoD alsbFaEducation Loanning                    Untversity Education
Emergency Planning                                   AdmnisraionEduaton_ivsio_Ad___sta_
Officer                                           Divis~ion                Dctvlsnon            OaiiisPann                      diitrticen
*1          School FII1~~~flCO      Science Education ~Education Loan
[                           Divis~~~~~~Scoo  ionac  ln  Eduicision             Project               Unrverslty Education
Inspector                      ______________            ______D____n_DMs _onDivision                             Student Affairs
lnspector                                                            .                                                                  ....._Officer
Compulsory              Junior College             Equipment       .__..              .__
Education              Administrative            Management       .           o   Edcto
Division                 Division                 Division                Natnal Education
Goneral Servkes                                        y C                   Junir College            School Building                 O.ice.
Dtvision                                       Er                           Division                 Divisn
______________                         ~~~~~~~~~~Education Officer  Academic Affairs        Construction
~~,i   &  If   ~~Supetvision &                                                          I     Non-formal &             University Education
Plannlng &                Textook                                         Teacher AtIairs           Intematonal                 Administration
Maagemerttofc          Compilation Officer                                     BurjauEducation Bureau                               Division
1111I1111  I~-7F~1                                                11111..1111111                  V                      U niversity Education
.1. 4 . t-  - - # , . Flnance Division
I  Textbook       INon-Formal
Planning &        I     Compilation           Chief Supervisor for       Teacher Affairs             Education
Budget Officer              Officer             Educatlon Research            Division             Promotion Division          University Education
_______ _______ ___   ___ _______ _______ _______ _______ ___   ___ _______ _______A cadem ic   A ffairs
Adrfne       |  |  SenlrCuodffukna     |  | Chief Supervisorfor  |     nPre-Serve Teacher      Non-Service Teacher               Division
AaninistrttoieCr Hieuuma                        Chief Sue M raructi fo      Education                  Education                 Sttndent Affairs
Management ~~ ~~Officer  DevipetMrlEuainDvision                                                   Division                   Management
Legal Affairs    Senior Coordinator      Chief Supervisor for      in-Service TeacherItrntoafDvso
Officer               for HumanIties             Instbuction           Education Division         Education &
________________________                                           ______Arts__               Cooperation DMsion           Academic Research
1 8Arts I I 1 I I_                                                                                       & Promotmotion Division
Chief Supervisor for      Teacher Welfare         Overseas Residents
Studont Guidance    |       t  G|idance               Division             Educaton OhMsliote    u
for Socal Science                                                                                       Student___ __ __ __ __Gu__ __ _da___ __ __
__________                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Officer
Senlor Coordinator
for Nur Sdence
E_KIW461 58



KOREA
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Organization of a Board of Education
Superintendent
Deputy
Superintendent
School Affairs                       Administraton
Bureau                                Bureau
Elementary Education Division          Administration Division               Planning and
Secondary Education Division           Financial Affairs Division            Inspection Office
Science and Technical Division         Educational Facilities Division       General Affairs Division
Nonformal                              Construction Division
Education Division.
Physical Education Division
j  District Ofoes  |
|  Schools     l
Miscellaneous 
Institutions 
17sus                 ~ ~~~~~~E14W4'7669C,



-28-
ANNEX 6
KOREA
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Procedures for Equipment Procurement
Advisory Committee
advises EFB on                         EFB allocates loan amounts
priority fields of study    :          to BEs and advises on priorities
BEs select participating schools
Experts'committees advise              BEs allocate loan funds to schools
BEs on equipment needs of              on basis of lists
individual schools and
prepare final equipment lists
Review of equipment specifications by ELPD
BEs group equipment for bidding and
- forward lists to OSROK
OSROK procures equipment



KOREA
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Detailed Project Costs
(Won million)
Equipment
Transportation                 Consumable        Total Cost
Equipment       and Installation    0 & M        Materials     Won M      US$ M
Technical Schools                    10792                653            1803          1803        15051      -21.2
Commercial Schools                    4544                 277            738           738.        6297        8.8
Agricultural Schools                  2627                 156            426           426         3635        5.1
Fisheries/Marine Schools               923                  57            142           142         1264        1.7
Baseline Cost                  18886                1143           3109          3109        26247       36.8
Contingencies
Physical                         944                  57            156            156         1313        1.9
Price Increase                  1478                 148            804           804          3234        4.6
Subtotal Contingencies          2422                 205            960           960         4547        6.5
Total Project Cost
Won million                21308                1348           4069          4069,       30794
US$ million                 30.0                 1.9            5.7           5.7                    43.3



KOREA
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Expenditure by Year and Receipient
Base Costs (Won million)                     Total Cost
91/92     92/93      93/94      94/95     95/0u      96/97     Won M      US$M
Technical Schools               902      4,118      4,402      3,067     1,456      1,106      15,051    21.2
Commercial. Schools             312      1,725      1,853      1,321        582       504       6.297     8.8
Agricultural Schools            241         987     1,058       710         348       291       3,635     5.1
Fisheries/Marine Schools         92        327        341       284         149        71.    1,264       1,7
Baseline Cost            1,547      7,157      7,654     5,382      2,535      1,972     26.247    36.8
Contingencies
Physical                     77       358        383       269        127         99      1,313      1.9
Price Increase               31       431        797        829        566       580       3,234     4.6
Total Project Cost       1,655      7,946      8,834     6,480      3,228      2,651     30,794    43.'
Foreign Exchange         1,463      6,949      7,256     4,665      1,414        7412    22,488    31.6



KOREA
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
CY  1990 l1991               t            1993          1994         1995          1996
BANK FY       91           92            93                                                97
QUARTER CY                                    3 4  1  2 2  3  4  . 2  3  4  2  3  |4   234    11i2 34
SELeCTION OF VOCATliNAL SCHOOLS
EDUCATION 8OARDS INFORMED
BOARD PROPOSALS RECEIVED & REVIEWED
SELECTED SCHOOLS FINALIZED
EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT
STANDARD LIST REVISED
LIST & SPECS PREPARED BY SCHOOLS                                mm.|
LIST REVIEWED AND APPROVED
PREPARATION OF BIDDING DOCUMENTSWma
INVITAtION FOR BIDS
EVALUATION AND CONTRACT AWARDS
DELIVERY. INSTALLATION b TESTING                                       A _A-|
WARRANTY PERIOD
LOAN PROCESSING & GENERAL IMPLEMENTATION
NEGOTIATIONS                                         i
BOARD PRESENTATION
LOAN SIGNING 
EFFECTIVENESS
GENERAL PROCUREMENT NOTICE ANNOUNCED                                                   I
PROJECT COMPLETION DATE
CLOSING DATE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT DUE DATE                                                                                    EK W4YiA



ANNEX 10
KOREA
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Disbursements
Disbursements                        Disbursements
... .. .   .               --  - -Profile /a
IBRD Fiscal Year       Semester    Cumulative        as Z              (Z)
and Semester         --       US$-----------    of Total
1992
1             2.0 /b           2.0           6.7              1
2             0.0              2.0           6.7              3
1993
1             4.0              6.0          20.0              5
2             6.0             12.0          40.0             10
1994
1             4.0             16.0          53.3             23
2             6.0             22.0          73.3             44
1995
1             4.0             26.0          86.7             70
2             2.0             28.0          93.3             81
1996
1             1.0             29.0          96.7             92
2             0.5             29.5          98.3             97
1997
I1            0.5             30.0         100.0            100
la   Standard disbursement profile for education projects in Korea.
/b   Initial deposit in Special Account.



-33-
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 2
KOREA
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
A.  Reports and Studies Related to the SectorlSubsector
A-1*  Introduction to Science and Technology - Republic of Korea, MOST,
1988.
A-2* Korea - Sector Survey of Science Education, IBRD, January 12, 1982.
A-3* Impact of World Bank Lending for Educational Development in Korea: A
Review, IBRD Report No. 5950, December 5, 1985.
A-4   Lee, Kye-Woo, Human Resources Planning in the Republic of Korea,
World Bank Staff Working Papers No. 554, 1983.
A-5   Chang, Suk-Min, Challenges of Technological Changes on Technical
Education, 1983.
A-6   Lee, Chingboon, Financing Technical Education in LDCs:  Economic
Implications from a Survey of Training Modes in the Republic of
Korea, Discussion Paper, Education and Training Series, World Bank,
September 1985.
A-7   The Korean Labor Market:  Emerging Policy Issues, IBRD Report No.
6478-KO, February 2, 1987.
A-8   Rutters, Klaus, Vocational Education in Korea, GTZ, August 1988.
A-9   Lee, Sang-Joe, The Development History of Vocational Training
Policies in Korea, KVTMA, September 1988.
A-10 Vocational Training in Korea, Ministry of Labor, ROK, 1989.
A-l1 Linkages between the Macroeconomic Environment and Vocational
Education and Training: A Case Study of the Republic of Korea, IBRD,
undated.
A-12 Shin, Se Ho and Ihm, Chon Sun, Vocational Education System in Korea:
A Narrative on Historical Development, September 1988.
* - See Project File for the First Technology Advancement Project (Loan
3037-KO).



- , , -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B-1   Vocational High Schools Equipment Expansion Project, MOE, May 1990.
B-2   The School Curriculum of the Republic of Korea, MOE, undated.
C. Selected Working Papers
C-1   IBRD Working Paper - Equipment
C-2   IBRD Working Paper - Improvement of the Vocational Education System
in Korea.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 226SC
01 C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
r M g X V Sohunhon
Okk.               LLABa.  Rd s,'
-    N                                               -    Railroads -
K Y 0 NG      - c  4   sU        s
" = cc - .r  -e  - - e-e..-? ,                                                 Speia Cities  . 
s 1t- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cha   g+  
MokpoDO
($1Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0240 R0 EA
PROJECT  ~      OCOBR 99
¢-~ ~      ~~ ~~~~~~~~ PrmcyRod
P5>4''34
oapo<t~~~~~ ~~~            ~~~~~~         AirportstOMI
Spca Cities
r~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OE 19<'



