                                  Documentof
                               The World Bank




                                                  ReportNo.: 29489




            PROJECT PERFORMANCE REASSESSMENTREPORT

                                  S R I LANKA

           THIRDMAHAWELIGANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                              (CREDIT 1166-CE)


                                 June 28,2004




Sector and ThematicEvaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit     =  Sri Lanh Rupee (LKR)

Appraisal Years (1980/81)        US$l.OO=LKR17.50
Average 1981     -1990           US$1.OO=LKR28.20
Completion Years (1990/91) US$1.00=LKR40.80
January 3, 1995                  US$1.OO=LKR49.75
January 3,2000                   US$1.OO=LKR72.30
January 2,2004                   US$l.OO=LKR97.45



Abbreviations and Acronyms

GDP               Gross Domestic Product
ICR               Implementation CompletionReport
IDA               International Development Association
IMF               International Monetary Fund
OED               Operations EvaluationDepartment
LKR               Sri Lanka Rupee
PPRR              Project PerformanceReassessmentReport

Fiscal Year

Government:               January 1-December 31




Director-General, OperationsEvaluation               : Mr.GregoryK.Ingram
Director, Operations EvaluationDepartment            : Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation              : Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                         : Mr. JohnR.Heath

                                                               i

I   OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independence in evaluation.                      I
 About this Report
       The OperationsEvaluation Departmentassesses the programsand activities of the World Bank for two
  purposes:first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank's work is
  producingthe expected results, and second, to helpdevelop improveddirections,policies, and proceduresthrough
 the disseminationof lessonsdrawn from experience.As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
 the Bank's lending operations. In selectingoperationsfor assessment,preferenceis given to those that are
  innovative,large,or complex;those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which
  ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave requestedassessments; and those that are likely to generate
  importantlessons.The projects,topics, and analyticalapproaches selectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluation
 studies.
       A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
  Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
  PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
 OED studies.
       Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
  PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
  Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


 About the OED Rating System
       The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
 The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
 sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
 the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
 http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
       Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
 current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
 goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
 Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
 account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
 opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
 Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
       Susfainability:The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
 Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
       lnstitutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
 to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
 better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
 better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
 institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
 project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
 achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
 Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
 supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
 for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
 Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
 quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
 achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
 Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                     ...
                                                                     111



Contents

Principal Ratings          ...............................................................................................................    v

Key Staff Responsible             ........................................................................................................    v

Preface   ..............................................................................................................................      ..
                                                                                                                                            vi1

Summary      ...........................................................................................................................     ix

 1 Rationaleand Approach
  .                                           .............................................................................................   1

2 Background
  .                    ..................................................................................................................     2

3 Project Objectivesand Design
  .                                                    ....................................................................................   4

4.   Relevance     ......................................................................................................................     6

5 Efficacy
 .              .........................................................................................................................     7

6 Efficiency
 .                 ....................................................................................................................      10

7 Outcome
 .               ......................................................................................................................      11

8 Sustainability
 .                       ..............................................................................................................      12

9 Institutional DevelopmentImpact
 .                                                            ...........................................................................    15

10 Bank and Borrower Performance
   .                                                         ............................................................................   16

11 FindingsandLessons
   .                                   .................................................................................................    18

Annex A    .Tables...............................................................................................................           21

Annex B    .BasicData           Sheet     ..............................................................................................    33

Annex C    .OED       Farm Survey Questionnaire                          .................................................................  35




This reportwas preparedby JohnR Heath. Task Manager.who assessedthe project inOctober 2003 The
                                            .
reporteditedby William HurlbutandRoseGachinaprovidedadministrative support                                          .                      .


                                             V



PrincipalRatings
                Outcome         Institutional  Sustainability   Bank           Borrower
                                Development                     Performance    Performance
                                Impact
PCR             Unsatisfactory  Modest         Uncertain        Not Rated      Not Rated
(November 1993)
PAR             Unsatisfactory  Modest         Likely           Satisfactory   Satisfactory
(December 1994)
PPRR            Highly          Negligible     Unlikely         Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory
(June 2004)     Unsatisfactorv



Key StaffResponsible
Project                    Task Manager/Leader        Division Chief/       Country Director
                                                     Sector Director
 Appraisal                      T.H. Yoon              Not Available          Not Available
 Completion                J.H. Weatherhogg and        Not Available          Not Available
                            A. Tabet (FAOICP)


                                            vii


Preface


         This is a Project Performance ReassessmentReport (PPRR) for the Sri Lanka
ThirdMahaweli Ganga Development Project, for whichCreditNo. 1166-CE inthe
amount o f US$90.0 million equivalent was approved on June 23, 1981, The creditclosed
on December 31, 1991,four years later than expected. A balance o f US$16.4 million
equivalent was canceled.

         The Operations Evaluation Department first sent a missionto assess the project in
May 1994, leading to preparation o f a Performance Audit Report. The project i s one of
four from various countries that were selected inFY04 for a trial reassessmentto see if
OED's original findings and ratings are still applicable.

         This Project Performance ReassessmentReport presents the findings of an OED
mission to Sri Lanka inOctober 2003. The mission was conducted by Mr.John R. Heath,
assistedby Dr. Sarath Bandara Mananwatte and Dr.RanjithDissanayake Wanigaratne
(consultants). As a follow-up to this mission, inFebruary 2004 Dr. Wanigaratne
conducted a survey o f 200 farm households inSystem C o f the Mahaweli scheme.

         The findings draw on interviewswith beneficiaries, officials ofthe Government
o f Sri Lanka and Bank staff. The collaboration o f these persons i s gratefully
acknowledged, as i s the generous financial support received from aNorwegian Trust
Fund, without which the survey work carried out would not have beenpossible.

        Following standard OED procedures, the draft PPRR was sent to the borrower for
comments before it was finalized. The Borrower had no comments on the report.


                                               ix




 Summary


         This is one of four FY04 reports that reassesses aprojectpreviously evaluated by
 the Operations EvaluationDepartment (OED), to test whether the initial findings and
 ratings remainvalid after a significant lapse o f time. This project was first assessed by
 OED in 1994. Inthe interveningperiodthere has beenno significant change inthe
 project's development results and this reassessmentconcludes that the previous
 evaluationunderstatedthe unsatisfactory nature o f project outcome. A key finding i s that,
 contrary to OED's expectations in 1994, water user groups have failed to emerge as
 financially self-sustaining entities capable o f assuming fullresponsibility for the
 operation and maintenance functions that government has assigned to them.

         The Sri LankaThirdMahaweli Ganga DevelopmentProject was supported by a
 credit o f US$90.0 millionequivalent. The credit was approved inJune 1981 and was
closed inDecember 1991,four years Iater than expected. Between 1970 and 1998 the
Bank extended six credits to the Mahaweli program, totaling about US$450 million in
2001 dollars.

        The objective ofthe projectwas to improve rural livelihoodsthrough a settlement
program involving irrigated farming and supporting infrastructure, with a view to
boostingincomes and boostingrice productionto substitute for imports. The project
focused on SystemC of the Mahaweli irrigation scheme, aiming to serve 24,100 farm
families. The project aimed to settle farmers on 1.O hectare plots, giving priority to
persons with previous farming experience.

        The findings ofthis reassessmentare based substantially on responsesto an OED-
sponsored survey o f 200 households inSystemC that was carried out inFebruary 2004.

        The reassessmentratesthe outcome as highly unsatisfactory, basedonthe modest
relevance o fthe project's development objectives, modest progress inachieving those
objectives and negligible efficiency. Relevance was limitedby the project's failure to
address distortions inthe agriculture incentives regime, the lack o f consideration given to
organizing water users for cost recovery, the failure to provide settlers with secure land
rights, and the absence ofprovisions for sound management ofnatural resources.
Progress towards objectives was limitedby the lower than expected growth infarm
incomes, which was associated with the lack o f diversificationout o f paddy farming
following the sharp post-1980 fall inthe world price o f rice. This price collapse, coupled
with substantial implementationdelays and increases incosts, underminedthe project's
viability. The economic rate o f returnwas re-estimated at 2 percent.

        The sustainability ofthe project's net benefit stream is rated unlikely given the
cutbacks ingovernment spendingon operation and maintenance, the failure o f water user
groups to become financially self-sustaining, the lack o f diversification into higher-
margin crops, land tenure insecurity, and the overall stagnation o f incomes.

                                                X




         The project's institutionaldevelopment impact is rated negligiblebasedon the
project's failure to address constraints inthe incentive regime andthe lack o f
consideration to strengtheningwater user groups. There were some early, project-driven
attempts to recover operation and maintenance costs from users but this initiative
collapsed by the mid-1990s.

         The performance ofboth Bank and borrower i s rated unsatisfactory because ofthe
lack of attention duringpreparation and implementationto containing costs and ensuring
the technical and economic viability ofthe project.

         The following lessons may be derived.First, rushing technical and economic
feasibility studies, or paying insuficient attention to thefindings is likely to result in an
unsatisfactoryproject outcome. Inthis case, the Bank felt pressuredto lendinorder to
buildarelationshipwith government. Consequently, not enough care was taken either to
estimate or subsequently to contain the costs of the proposed irrigation schemes.
Important environmental considerations bearing on the preservation o f biodiversity and
the management of conflicts betweensettlers and wildlife were brushedunder the carpet.
The long-term fiscal implicationswere downplayedandthe inflationary impact ofproject
fundingwas not taken seriously enough.

        Second, settlement programs that do not select candidates withpreviousfarming
experience and which do notprovide settlers withfull title to their land are not likely to
prosper. This project, to date, has failed to deliver security o f tenure to farmers. Title was
not givento the farmers out o f a paternalistic concern that they would speculate with the
land rather than farm it. The importance o f secure property rights was less widely
recognized in 1980 whenthe project was appraised than it i s now. Without title, farmers
are not legally able to sell their plots and ifthey sell illegally are less likely to recoup the
value of investmentsthey have made. This discourages less successful farmers from
selling up and impedes consolidationof plots that are too small to be viable.

        Third, using repeated interviews with a small number of households,
supplemented by interviews with local leaders and community groups is an effective low-
cost techniquefor tracking theperformance of rural developmentprojects. The work by
Scudder and his Sri Lankan colleagues bear this out. Ifa pre-project benchmark survey
had beenconducted their findings would probably have carried more weight with
decisionmakers. Nevertheless, with a small expenditure o fresources they were able to
predict early on that the Mahaweli program would not fulfill its development objectives.




                                                                         Gregory K.Ingram
                                                                         Director-General
                                                                         Operations Evaluation

                                                   1


 1.      Rationale andApproach

 1.1     The present reassessmentis part of a set of four undertakenby OED inFY04 to
 examine the long-term result o f operations infour countries (theothers being
 Bangladesh, Laos, and Mauritania), and to judge to what extent evaluation findings may
 vary according to the length o f interval betweenthe date whenproject implementation
 was completed and the date whenthe evaluation was conducted.

 1.2     This report reassesses aprojectto develop part ofthe areaencompassedby Sri
 Lanka's largest public-sector irrigationinitiative, the Mahaweliprogram. OED's 1986
 reviewofWorld Bank assistanceto Sri Lankagave substantial coverageto this program. It
 concluded that it was too early to make ajudgment about the program's success,
 recommending that a full impact evaluation by OED, jointly withcofinanciers, be
 undertakenat a suitable time inthe future. Eighteen years onit is nowpossible to make a
 more comprehensive assessment, focusing on Mahaweli 111,the largest o f six Bank-
 financed operations insupport o fthe program. However, inthe absence of a baseline
 survey, comprising treatment andmatched groups, the current assessment couldnot aspire
to be a formal impact evaluation.

 1.3     The purpose ofreassessingthe project is to test the durability ofits results: that is,
whether the findings ofanevaluation change ifthe operation is evaluatedafter alonger
interval, inthis case in2004 rather than in 1994. The reassessmentfocuses on the initial
evaluation findings, facts that have emerged since the evaluation, andthe current
assessment in2004.

 1.4     This reassessment draws on data from the following sources:

    The StaffAppraisal Report (1981);
    OED's Reviewof the Bank-Sri Lanka Relationship (1986)
    The Project CompletionReport (1993);
    OED's first assessment(Performance Audit Report, 1994);
    A OED reassessmentmissioninOctober 2003;
    An OED-sponsored survey of200 farm households inFebruary 2004 (see Annex C
    for questionnaire); and
    The long-term study by Scudder and others, which examined 19to 45 Mahaweli
    households from 1979 to 2001.'

1.5     The approachtaken was to define quantitative outcome targets basedon the Staff
Appraisal Report, and to compare these with actual achievements registered inOED's
assessmentsin 1994 and 2004. This part o f the analysis focuses heavily on trends in
yields, farm output, and household incomes (including income generated outside the
farm). Also, the assessmentconsiders changes inthe agricultural incentive regime and the



1.The early findings fromthis study are reportedinKrishnaKumar (ed.,) RapidAppraisalMethods,
Washington, DC: World Bank, 1993.

                                                   2


  development o f water-user groups (Farmer Organizations), both o f which bear onthe
  evaluation o f sustainability and institutionaldevelopment impact.



  2.         Background

  2.1        In2000, Sri Lankahad atotal irrigatedareaof659,000 hectares, or about 35
  percent o f farmland. More than 75 percent o f irrigated landi s inthe dry zone and i s
  mainly usedfor highly water-intensive paddy cultivation. The bulk o f water demand i s
  met from surface supplies, usingan infrastructure that comprises 60 large multi-purpose
  dams, 260 major irrigationtanks, and about 12,000 minor reservoirs (village tanks).
  About 85 percent o fthe water supply is usedfor irrigated agriculture. Unlike surface
  water, ground water is a limitedresource whose availability has not yet beenfully
  assessed (although it is likely that most o f the major aquifers have already been tapped).2

 2.2         Since the late 1 9 5 0 ~ ~
                                    development o f the Mahaweli river has beena centerpiece o f
  Sri Lanka's development strategy. During implementationfrom the late 1970s onwards
 this was one ofthe largest riverbasindevelopment schemesunderconstructioninthe
 world. The program was identifiedin 1958, a Bank mission made recommendations in
  1961, and a master plan was formulated by the government in 1964-68, envisaging the
 irrigationo f 260,000 hectares o f undeveloped land, plus fresh investments in 100,000
 hectares already under irrigation. Implementationo f what was originally intendedas a
 30-year program began in 1970. In 1977 the government attempted both to speed up
 implementation and to apply a strategy o f integrated rural development. Inaddition to
 irrigationworks, the Mahaweli Authority became responsible for providing agricultural
 extension, settler support, roads, schools, police force, and social services.

 2.3        Budgetsare now more constrained and priorities have shifted. Government
 outlays on irrigation declined from 80 percent o f agriculture sector spendinginthe early
 1980s to about 40 percent in2000.3The share o f new construction inirrigation
 investments declined from the 80 percent plus that prevailed from 1950 to 1985 to less
 than one-third by the late 1990s (Annex A, Table A4).

 2.4        Between 1970 and 1998 the Bank approved six credits insupport o fthe Mahaweli
 program, totaling the equivalent o f US$240 million(US$450 in2001 dollars). The early
 credits focused on new construction. Senior engineers whose primary interest was the
 construction o fthe major head works wielded disproportionate influence. Insufficient
 consideration was givento the relationshipbetweenthe various Mahaweli systems and
 adjacent towns, neglectingthe dimension o f regional development. N o town and country
 planningexpertise was representedonthe Mahaweli Board. Buildingwas completedby
 the early 1990s. By the endofthat decade faith inthe Mahaweli development scheme had
*faded. In 1998, the Bank's most recent (and probably last) contribution to the scheme-

 2. World Bank, Sri Lanka: PromotingAgricultural and RuralNon-farm Sector Growth(Report No. 25387),
 February26,2003, p. 29.
 3 . Ibid,, p. 29.

                                                   3


 Mahaweli IV-aimed         for a radicalrestructuring, seeking to transform the Mahaweli
 Authority into a river basin authority. This includedreducing staff numbersfrom 10,9 18
 to 4,968 inexchange for an early retirementpackage.

 2.5      The overall outcome ofthe heavy investmentinirrigation-not           just for the
 Mahaweli-has        fallen short o f expectations. Trade, marketing, technology, land, and
water policies have betweenthem helpedto tie most farm households to low-productivity
 activities-about     90 percent o f irrigatedland is usedto grow paddy. Poor reliability o f
water delivery and limitedaccess to water by persons at the end o f irrigation channels,
 combined with the inadequate supply of agricultural extension and improved
technologies, contribute to low crop yields. Inmany areas inthe dry zone, diversification
into higher-value crops i s impededby water delivery schedules that are designed for
paddy cultivation-schedules         over which farmers exercise little control. Low
productivity depresses farmer incomes-and           also raises resistance to the introduction of
water charges neededto fundmaintenance o f the irrigation system.

2.6        Nationwide, the percentage share o f labor employed inagriculture decreasedfrom
47 percent o ftotal employment in 1990to 36 percent in 1999; butthroughout this decade
agricultural productivity per worker stagnatedat around SLR 53,000 per year (inconstant
 1996prices). In2000, about 80 percent ofthe population livedinrural areas but only 23
percent of the meanearningso fruralhouseholds came from agriculture. About 45 percent
o frural households-with      about halfof these locatedinthe poorest 40 percent ofthe
income distribution-are      dependenton farming (including casual agricultural wage
employment).

2.7       Agriculture inSri Lanka i s becoming increasingly polarized between a small,
dynamic sector (fruits, vegetables, and spices) and a large, relatively stagnant sector (which
includes bothpaddy productionandtree crops). The dynamic sector accounts for a rising
share o f GDP and i s fueled by domestic (particularly tourist) and export demand. The
stagnant sector i s associated with stable to declining GDP shares. The easing o f import
restrictions on cereals has reducedthe stimulus that these crops receive from domestic
demandwhile their relatively high costs reduce export potential. Mucho fthe irrigated farm
area is tiedup inpaddy; andthis sector's share o f agricultural GDP declinedfrom 28
percentin 1982-85 to 22 percent in 1996-2000.4Inthe late 1990s, about 5 percent ofGDP
wentto subsidizing rice production, 3 percent(US$250 millionper year) inthe form of
irrigation costs not recovered from users and 2 percent (US$125 million) corresponding to
theroughly 10percent increment over world prices that is paidbythe Sri Lankanconsumer
o frice.




      ~




4. Ibid., Executive Summary.

                                               4


 3.       ProjectObjectives and Design

 Location

 3.1      The project focused on an area ofthe Mahaweli designated as SystemC, which is
 dividedinto six zones. The project area comprised the northernhalf o f SystemC (Map),
 totaling about 66,700 hectares, situated inthe east-central section o f Sri Lanka, forming
 part o f the dry zone with mean annual rainfall varying from 2,250 millimetersto 1,750
 millimeters.SystemC comprised 24 percent ofthe areato be irrigatedunder the
 Accelerated Mahaweli Program. When the project was prepared, only the southern part o f
 the systemhadany permanent settlement althoughareas to the northhadbeen
 encroached on by shifting cultivators and illicit timber fellers. Only the northwestthird o f
 the arearemainedunderrelativelydense evergreenforest.

 Project Objectives

 3.2      When the appraisal report was presented(May 1981) it was not the Bank's standard
practice to include a formal statement of development objectives. The report merely
 describes expected outputs. The project's objectives may be inferredfrom govemment's
 overallprogram goals, which were to reduce unemployment, substitutefor food grain
 imports, and generateelectricity for the development of industry andrural communities.

 3.3      Inits descriptionofproject benefits, the appraisal report addressesthe first two of
these program goals. Incremental agricultural employment would be 3.1 million
workdays per year, added to which an unspecifiednumber o f ancillary jobs would be
created inthe locality basedon the marketing and processing o f farm produce andthe
provision o f social services.

3.4      Byreducing rice imports (which averaged29 percent ofconsumption inthe 1970s),
andincreasing exports the projectwould have abeneficialimpactonthe balance oftrade:
inadditionto contributinganincrementalrice output of 126,300 tons, theprojectwas
expectedto generate 330 tons each ofpepper, cocoa, and coffee; 29,400 tons o f fuel wood;
and 385 tons o f cashew kernels. The annual gross foreign exchangevalue o fthe
incremental productiono ftradeables generatedthroughthe project was estimated as
US$61.2 millionat full development, 91 percent o f which would be attributable to rice
import substitution.

3.5      About 90 percent o f direct project beneficiaries would be new settler families
most o f whom were currently landless or operating holdings that were too small to
guarantee a livelihood. Before they enteredthe project, the annual per capita income o f
beneficiaries was estimated at US$34, well below the absolute poverty level o f US$105
per capitaper year, definedby the Bank at the time (1980). After payment ofthe
proposedwater and land charges, the average income o f the new settlers was expected to
increase about 3.5 times from without-project levels.

                                                5


3.6      The project aimed to settle farm families on 1.O hectareplots inblocks of about
10-15 farms, suppliedby a single farm canal. Following development 31,300 new
families would settle in System Cyconsisting o f 24,100 farmer-settlers (of which 18,500
would be inZones 3 to 6) and 7,200 tradesmen, artisans, and service personnel. The
project would provide settlers with adequatehealth, educational and other facilities to
attain living standards comparable to other developed areas inSri Lanka. Two towns
would be established, GiranduruKotte (Zone'2) and Dehiatte Kandiya (Zone 4).

3.7      Inselecting settlers, first priority would be givento personswithprevious farm
experience who had been displaced from reservoir areas and elsewhere. Other farmer
settlers would be expected to meet the following criteria established by the government:

0   Currently owning no more than 0.4 hectares o f farm land;
0   Provenexperience inagriculture either as a sharecropper or agricultural laborer; and
    Availability o f family labor.

Inthe absence ofanexplicit statementinthe StaffAppraisal Report, this reassessment
"reconstructs" the development objectives o fthe project to be:

0   Improve rural livelihoods through a settlement programtargeted to poor families with
    previous experience o f farm work, inorder to raise farm incomes, stimulate ancillary
    off-farm employment, and provide supporting social and economic infrastructure; and
0   Strengthenthe balance of trade by boosting production o fpaddy and other crops, thus
    reducing dependency on rice imports and stimulating exports.

These are the objectives against which the project will be rated inthis reassessment.The
project's logical framework i s depictedinAnnex A, Figure Al.

ProjectComponents

3.8     A detailed description ofproject inputsand outputs is given inTable A5 (Annex
A). Summarizing:

   The project would provide newirrigationcapability for about 24,100 hectares and
   enhancedcapability for about 3,620 hectares, comprising intotal about 42 percent o f
   the gross area of System C ofthe MahaweliProgram.
   For System C as a whole the project would builda 26-kilometer-long Transbasin
   Canal, which would convey water from the Mahaweli river at Minipe to the Ulhitiya
   reservoir; it would also provide technical assistance, a monitoring program,
   maintenance equipment and workshops, equipment and facilities for a farm
   machinery hire service; and equipment for a training center and farm.
   Within Zones 3 to 6 of System C it would provide irrigationand drainage
   infrastructure, land clearing and on-farm development, roads, social infrastructure,
   and settlement assistance; it would also establish fuel wood and cashew plantations.

                                                    6


  4.      Relevance

 OED's 1994 Assessment

 4.1      This report included no explicit discussion, or rating, of relevance. Butthe project
 was described as soundly conceived at appraisal, which suggeststhat the verdict on
 relevance would have beenpositive. Also, the report notes favorably that a large number
 o f poor farmers were served. The project's unsatisfactory outcome i s attributed primarily
 to the unforeseen-and,      inthe report's view, unforeseeable-fall        intheworld price of
 rice. Although the assessment was made at a time when the Bank was paying muchmore
 importance to the openness o fthe trade regime, OED didnot query the relevance of a
 project that supported the attainment o f self-sufficiency inrice.

 4.2      The one areawhere the project's relevance is questioned concerns the failure to
 protect biodiversity, reflecting the Bank's growing sensitivityto environmental concerns
 inthe early 1990s.This failing is consistent with the overalltenor ofthe Mahaweli
 Program, the master plan for which completely ignored environmentalimpact.' A draft
 environmentalimpact study of the Mahaweli I11project described Zone 4 as a critical
 habitat for several endangered fauna, recommending that this area be incorporated into a
nationalpark. On learning o f this during appraisal, the Bank told the government that
 deletion o f this area would requirereexamination o f the project's economic viability. The
 final version o f the environmental impact report made no reference to a possible dropping
o f Zone 4 (which remained inthe project). Despite concerns expressedby the Bank's
EnvironmentalAdvisor, Operations went aheadwith the project as originally designed,
ignoringthe concerns about the loss o f wildlife habitat.

OED's 2004 Reassessment

4.3      Interms ofthe current strategy ofthegovemment andtheBanktheverdict about
the project's relevance today i s mixed. On the one hand, the government's recent Poverty
ReductionStrategy Paper gives central place to one o fthe goals ofthe Mahaweli program:
combating unemployment.6Butthe approach to tackling this problemhas altered. Where
previouslythere was a focus onpromotingimport-substituting paddy production, nowthe
emphasis, economy-wide, i s moving labor from low- to high-productivity employment. In
agriculture, this entails removingrestrictions on crop diversification andtenure security,
restrictions that have impededinvestmentsinmore productivetechnologies, such as drip
irrigationandimprovedseed varieties. The Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper states that it
i s necessaryto reverse the relentless fragmentation of agriculturallands into ever smaller
plots, partly throughequipping the rural populationwith the skills and ability to migrate to
higherproductivityjobs inurbanareas. Inthe Mahaweliarea, much emphasisis givento
strengtheningthe water user groups responsible for operations andmaintenance ofcanals,

5. T. Scudder, Sri Lanka's Mahaweli Development Project, November 21,2003 (Unpublished ms made
available by author).
6. See "Regaining Sri Lanka": the Government's strategy, reproduced inthe Joint IDA and IMF Staff
Assessmento fthe Poverty ReductionStrategy Paper, March 7,2003.

                                                 7


 andproviding alternatives to paddy production, notably stock rearing. There is also a new
 approach to water resource managementbasedontransferable water entitlements-which
 i s aimed to allocate water more efficiently between agriculture, industry, and urbanuses.
 This will entail establishing a managementauthority for the whole riverbasin.

 4.4     With respect to the project's two inferreddevelopment objectives (see previous
 section), this reassessment finds that the balance of trade objective i s of limitedrelevance
 to today's strategy, given that it was framed by a policy o f rice self-sufficiency that no
 longer applies to the current, more open trade environment. The rural livelihoods
 objective is still pertinent, but its contemporary relevance is reducedby:

 0    The project's failure to address efficiency-impairing distortions inthe agriculture
      incentives regime;
 0    The absence of attention to the formation of water user groups who would assume
     partial responsibilityfor operating and maintainingthe irrigation works built by the
     project;
 0    The failure ex ante to provide settlers with secure landrights; and
 0    The cursory treatment givento natural resource management, includingthe likely
     conflict betweensettler interests and wildlife conservation-particularly       the problem
     posed by marauding elephants.

 4.5     Inlight ofthese considerations, OED ratesthe overallrelevance oftheproject's
 development objectives as modest.



5.       Efficacy

5.1      The expected outputswere partially delivered, and with considerable delay. There
were shortfalls inthe size ofthe command area, the number of farm families settled, the
amount o f land cleared, the area inplantations and the provision o f social infrastructure
(Table 1). The high-inflation environment ledto a large element o f "contingency"
spending. The closing date was extendedfour times-ultimately          the project closed in
May 1992 rather than December 1987 as originally intended.It i s difficult to estimate the
extentto which the actual cost exceededthe expected owing to the longimplementation
period, the depreciation o f the exchange rate and the lack of information on the date when
costs were incurred. The Project CompletionReport (Evaluation Summary) says that, in
dollar terms, the actual cost was 30 percent higher than budgeted; but the detailed project
cost annex inthe same report i s not consistent with this estimate ifrupees are converted
into dollars at the average exchange rate that prevailed during implementation
(admittedly, a crude measure)-this       estimate suggesting that the total cost o f the project
was almost exactly double what was expected at appraisal (Table 1).

                                                             8


 Table 1. Outputsby Component

                            costs (US$
 Components                  million)/a                                        outputs

                       Appraisal
                       Estimate      ActuaMb
 Transbasin canal        21.O          28.6        26 km canal, complete as expected
 Other canals &          17.9         101.7        Main and branch canals, 129 kms expected, 62 kms actual;
 drains                                            Smaller canals, 1,210 kms expected, 1,418 kms actual
                                                   Command area, 18,500 ha expected, 17,683 ha actual
 Land preparation         4.0           8.7        Farm families settled (Zones 3 -6), 18,500 expected, 17,195
                                                   actual
                                                   Clearing, 31,000 ha expected, 20,609 actual
 Social                   3.6          22.9        Schools built, 303 expected, 87 actual
 infrastructure                                    Health centers built, 63 expected, 35 actual
                                                   Roads built, 400 km expected, 551 km actual
 Plantations              6.1           6.8        Cashew (2,000 ha planted as expected but only 15% of trees
                                                   survived) and fuel wood (3,000 ha expected, 1,200 actual)
 Otherk                  76.2         88.6         Numerous items
 TOTAL                  128.8         257.3

 Source: Annex A, Table A5
/a    Based on an average exchange rate of US$l=LKR28.2 for the implementation period (1981-1990). The exchange
 rate went from US$l=LKR16.5 in the appraisal year (1980) to US$I=LKR41.4 in the completion year (1991).
/b    End of 1991.
ICEquipmentandvehicles,settlementassistance,technicalassistance,monitoring,trainingcenter,O&Mduringproject
implementation, and various "contingencies" to allow for high inflation.


5.2        OED's efficacy criterionconsiders the extent to which objectives were attained,
giving priority to relevant objectives. Giventhat the second o f the project's inferred
development objectives-addressing                 the balance oftrade deficit by pursuingrice self-
sufficiency-is      o f negligible current relevance, the discussion o f efficacy will only
address how muchthe objective o f improvingrural livelihoods was achieved. OED `s
2004 assessmentsuggests a larger shortfall than that perceived inthe earlier assessment.
The data comparing the two assessmentsare presentedinAnnex A, Tables A1 to A3.

OED's 1994 Assessment

5.3       With respect to the rural livelihoods objective, the 1994report gave a rather
incomplete assessment. It statedthat a large number o fpoor families were served
(although noting that the number o f farm families settled was 16,136, compared to the
original estimate o f 18,500).' OED made no reference to the failure to enforce the agreed
settlement selection criteria (politicians gave preference to their clients)-and                    the likely
consequences o f this for farming productivity. The project completion report notes that


7. This refers to Zones 3 to 6 only. It is not clear either from the Project Completion Report or OED's
assessment what proportion o fthe system-wide target (24,100 farm families) were actually settled. An EU
report says that there were 27,296 farm families settled in System C in2003.

                                                 9


 many o f the settlers had little or no experience o f farming. The discussion o f the shortfall
 infarm incomes (not actually quantified) focuses mainly onthe effect ofahalvingofthe
 world price o f rice, and the failure to establish cashew plantations-which       OED
 attributes to the appraisal's misreading o f soil and climate. There i s no reference to
 diversification out o f paddy into other crops; slow progress inthis area i s described as a
 major cause o f concern inthe project completion report. There is also no discussion o f
 the likely multiplier effect ofthe project onnon-farm employment. Finally, there is no
 treatment o f the shortfalls inproviding schools andhealthcenters; or the weakness o f
 agricultural services. All these factors bear on the project's limited efficacy inimproving
 rural livelihoods.

 OED's 2004 Reassessment

 5.4     OED's farm survey gathered a series o f data that bear on the attainment o f the
 rural livelihood objective. First, as o f 2004, the income o f farm households had increased
 by only 32 percent over the without-project scenario, compared to the increase o fover
 400 percent estimated at appraisal (Annex A, Table A3). Second, with respect to that part
 o f income generated from the farm, almost all growth i s attributable to paddy: income
 from all other on-farm sources accounted for only 1percent o f farm income, compared to
the appraisal expectation of about one-tenth. The incremental output ofpaddy is 145,000
tons, or about 78 percent of what was projected. The mean paddy yield over the past three
years (4.4 tons per hectare) is lower than the 4.7 tons per hectare that was expected; but
the meannumber o f crops peryear was somewhat higher.

 5.5     Household income is based on a mono-cropping of paddy (60 percent o f the
total), supplementedby wage earnings, mainly earned outside the locality: important
sources were the garment assembly industry,jobs inthe home guard and army, and
remittances from unmarriedfemales employed as domestic servants inthe MiddleEast
(Annex A, Table A6). The relative unimportance of localwage employment (6 percent)
demonstrates the project's limitedmultiplier effect.

5.6      Data from other sources amplify the survey findings. The 2004 survey usedan
instrumentthat hadbeenadministered infive previous surveyso f SystemC going back to
1989 (Annex A, Table A10). These data show that total cash income halved inreal terms
over the 25-year period. They also show a significantjump between 1996 and 2004 inthe
share o f wage earnings intotal income. This i s consistent with the findings of recent
Bank analytic work concerning the stagnation o f incomes from paddy-based agriculture.'

5.7      In2004, averagehousehold incomes inSystemC were about 70 percent below
the poverty line, a sadcommentary onthe project's effect onrural livelihood^.^

5.8      Other findings were as follows:

8. World Bank, op. cit., 2003.
9. In 1996,the povertylinewas drawn at LKR 860 per month, equivalent to an annualhouseholdincome o f
aboutLKR 51,600 (or LKR46,071 in 1995 prices).The 2004 survey shows an average householdincome
in SystemC ofLKR 60,793 (or LKR 3 1,829 in 1995 prices).

                                                    10


     0     Keyinformants interviewedduring OED's 2003 missionconfirmedthat the initial
           selection o f settlers was heavily influenced bypolitical clientelism, with little or no
           vetting o f farming experience;
     0     Agriculture support services are weak: the reductioninservices provided by the
           Mahaweli Authority has not beenoffset by the growth of a national research and
           extension service; productivity growth has stagnated;
     0     Many years after project implementationendedthe number o f schools, health
           centers, post offices and cooperatives in System C remained well below the
           original target;"
     0     The two towns inSystem C have stagnatedeconomically over the past quarter
           century: they have failed to experience the commercial and agro-industrial growth
           that was initially expected, remaining primarily administrative centers."

5.9        Inthe light ofthese findings, efficacy is ratedmodest.



6.         Efficiency

OED's 1994 Assessment

6.1       OED endorsed the 4 percent economic rate o freturnestimated inthe Project
Completion Report (the appraisal estimate was 18 percent), concluding that inthe light o f
world price changes it would be difficult to designany new investmentproject that would
yield a 10percent rate ofreturnbasedon irrigatedpaddy production. Itattributeda major
part o f the cost overrun to the unexpectedly large amounts o f rock encountered during
constructiono fthe Trans-basin canal and the lack o f fill material. The major delay in
implementation also contributed to the doubling o f project costs.

OED's 2004 Reassessment

6.2       Itis the price ofricethat determines the economic viability ofthis investment,
giventhe absence of significant crop diversification. In2003, inrealterms, the world price
o frice was only 38 percent o fwhat it was in 1980when the project was appraised (Annex
A, FigureA2).

6.3       OED re-estimated the economic rate ofreturn bytaking the model inthe 1993
project completion report and substitutingactual rice prices up to the present for the
estimatedprices originally used; all other aspects o fthe 1993 model were left unchanged.
This gives arate of returnof2 percent, compared to the 4 percent that was estimatedin
1993 (Annex A, Table A 11). Subtracting the value o f farm income sources other than
paddy drives the rate o f returndown to zero. Removingnon-paddy sources i s not

10. A.D.V. de S. Indraratna (ed.,) A Quarter Century of Mahaweli: Retrospect and Prospect, Colombo:
National Academy o f Sciences of Sri Lanka, 2000. Table 3 (p. 89). Data go up to 1996 only.
11. Ibid., p. 165

                                                        11


 unreasonable because the 2004 survey demonstratedthat a mere 1percent of total
 household income derivedfrom farm sources other than paddy-compared                       to the 5-10
 percent o f totalfarm income assumedinthe project completionreport.

 6.4       This re-estimate is borne out by arecent study by Kikuchiand others which
 estimated rates o f returnto investmentsinnew irrigationin Sri Lanka centered on paddy.
Itconcludedthat after 1980the returns fell beneaththe opportunity cost ofcapital, falling
to as low as 5 percent by 1997, basedonprices and technical parameters prevailingat
that time.

 6.5       Other indicators also point to the project's low efficiency. O fthe 50 new Sri
Lankan irrigationconstruction projects reviewedby Kikuchi and others, the Mahaweli C
(Zones 3-6) emerges as the most costly inconstant value terms (LKR 710,000 per hectare
in 1995prices-or        US$1,405 per hectare).]* This i s high inrelationto cross-country
comparators for surface irrigation indeveloping small island~tates.'~Moreover, it seems
to be only a partial estimate o fthe actual cost that i s recorded inthe project completion
report. The total cost o f the Trans-basin canal, and all other canals and drains down to the
field level, divided by the actual command area, gives US$7,368 per hectare (see Table 1
above).I4More comprehensive cost measures are no more positive. Dividing total project
costs (including forest clearing, roads, social infrastructure) by the newly-irrigated area
yields a figure o f US$14,550 per hectare. OED's 1994 assessmentmade a comparison
with IndonesianTransmigration settlement projects which also involvedcarving farms
out ofjungle: here the mean cost was US$12,000 per hectare, a figure whichthe report
says had beencriticized as excessively expensive.

6.6       Therefore, this reassessmentrates efficiency as negligible.



7.        Outcome

7.1       In1994, OED ratedthis project's outcome as unsatisfactory. This reassessment
concludes that, based on the evidence o f modest relevance, modest efficacy, and
negligible efficiency, the project's outcome should be rated highly unsatisfactory. One
schematic way to derive this result i s to consider 19 indicators which bear on the outcome
rating. O f these, only three are given a plus rather than a minus:water supply reliability
(as assessed by farmers interviewedin2004; see below); meeting o f the appraisal targets
for the number o f families settled; and increase incropping intensity (Annex A, Table
A2).

12. M.Kikuchiet al., Irrigation Sector in Sri Lanka (Research ReportNo. 62), InternationalWater
Management Institute,Colombo: Sri Lanka, 2002, pp. 39-40.
13. One source (UnitedNations Environment Program, 2002), basedon data from a number o f small
Pacific islands, suggests that for surface irrigation schemes (of which Mahaweli is an example) the typical
cost range o f on-farm works is US$lOO/ha-USl,OOO/ha.
14. As the footnote to Table 1indicates, this is based on the average exchange rate during a period o f
currency instability. The range is roughly US$5,000/ha to US$13,000/ha.

                                                12


 8.      Sustainability

 OED's 1994 Assessment

 8.1    The 1994 report is optimistic about sustainability, proposinga rating o f likely; the
 project completion report had opted to rate it uncertain. OED's optimism in 1994 was
 based on the evidence o f strong government commitment. At the time government was
 actively promoting and supporting Farmer Organizations that would be responsible for
 operations and maintenance of distributary and field canals. The report notes that without
this vigorous farmer involvement severe degradation ofthe systemwould be likely.
Farmer Organizations were apparently very willing to mobilize labor for cleaning and
 small maintenance jobs on distributary and field canals; but farmers were also very
 unwillingto provide evensmall amounts o fcash for neededhardware. OED concluded
that it was reasonable, for income redistributionpurposes, to expect tax payers to cover
the cash costs of systemmaintenance.

OED's 2004 Reassessment

 8.2    The sustainability ofthe investmentinirrigationdepends onthe contributionof
government and water users to managing and maintaining the system, which inturn
depends on the ability o f the system to generate a revenue stream large enough to justify
a commitment by government and by farmers. Generation o f this revenue stream hinges
partly on the policy framework, which determines whether or not there i s an incentive for
farmers to diversify out of paddy.

8.3     As originally conceived, the Accelerated MahaweliProgram soon provedto be
fiscally unsustainable. Its share o f total public capital expenditures rose from 7 percent in
 1977 to 46 percent in 1982. The program's size was a major contributor to three
problems: large unfinancedbudgetdeficits; heavy dependence on external financing; and
a serious imbalance betweencurrent and capital spending.The program was cut back in
the mid-1980s.More generally, public fundingofirrigationcontracted. Government
spendingon operations and maintenance o f irrigationworks declined by 35 percent
between 1985 (thepeak) and 1997; over the same periodpublic spending on
rehabilitation also declined somewhat (Annex A, Table A4). Generalized budget
tightening has accelerated this decline since 1997. The ongoing project to restructure the
Mahaweli Authority aims to cut its claim on the recurrent budget from LKR 1,304
million in 1998 to LKR 552 million by June 2002. It i s not clear from the latest status
report what progress has beenmade toward this target-7,000         staff have beenlaid off but
the net saving i s reportedly less than the appraisal target owing to salary increases.
Nevertheless, the scale o f the proposed cutback (58 percent) is indicative o f the climate
of contractionnow bearing on the Sri Lanka irrigation sector.

8.4     To what extent has the handover o f management responsibility to water user
groups offset the tightening o fthe Mahaweli Authority's budget?Formal handover
means that while the Authority remains responsible for operating and maintainingmain
and branch canals, main drainage canals, and downstream reservoirs, the Farmers

                                                13


 Organizations are charged with managing distributary and field canals. Farmer
 Organizations that have signeda legal agreement for handover are empowered to collect
 operations and maintenance fees and fines, inprinciple reducingthe claim on the public
 purse. InSystem CyZones 3 to 6, there are now 127Farmer Organizations ofwhich only
 8 have beenlegally handed over. Eighty-two Organizations report that they collect some
 operation and maintenance fees from users but, since the vast majority o f these have not
 beenlegally handed over, they cannot enforce collection which, at best, is erratic and
 mobilizes only small sums. Also, 15-45 percent o f water users are present inSystem C by
 virtue o f informal leaseor sale arrangements which meansthat they are not legal
membersofFarmers Organizations andtendto have little to do withthem. While
 Organizations are able to mobilize a sufficient amount of members' labor for unpaid
weeding, desilting, andbundstrengthening,most ofthe cashoutlay for operations and
maintenance still comes from the public purse. Part o fthis outlay i s embodied inthe 5
percent commissionthe Organizations receive from government for identifyingthe local
contractors that will take on publicly-financedrehabilitationworks.

8.5      Inprinciple, farmers shouldhave the skills to managethe system:for over one
thousand years villagers throughout Sri Lanka-including      the DryZone areawhere
SystemC i s located-managed       small tank cascades. However, althoughultimately
descended from this tradition, many System C settlers didnot have recent farm
experience when they were selected. Also, the Mahaweli staff were not trained to foster
farmer participationinplanningand management. There was a strong tradition o f
paternalism and a focus on overall (paddy) productiontargets rather than enabling
farmers to assume responsibility.

8.6      Thedata from OED's 2004 surveypaint amixedpictureof sustainability prospects.
Onthe one hand, the irrigationworks inSystem C remainviable: maintenance and
rehabilitationworks are, for the most part, supervised by Mahaweli technical staff, with the
Farmer Organizations deferringto them. Averaging across the five zones surveyed, more
than three-quarters o f farmers respondedthat they were either satisfied or fairly satisfied
withthe supply ofwater received, the designofthe irrigationworks, andthe arrangements
for maintenance and rehabilitation (Annex A, Table A7). On balance, respondentswere
also positive intheir assessmento f how Farmer Organizations carry out key functions,
including arrangementsfor regular maintenance, dispute resolution, input supply, and
facilitating farmer access to credit. The one areawhere most respondents were dissatisfied
(83 percent) was the assistance withpaddy marketing (Annex A, Table AS).

8.7     The respondents generally upbeat assessmentsuggeststhat irrigationremains
viable in System C; but this i s more a reflection on the quality o f work done by the
Mahaweli staff thanthe Farmers Organizations, since 92 percent o f the Organizations are
"junior partners" inajoint management relationship. Also, OED's local consultant points
out that farmers are reluctant to criticize the Farmer Organizations, not wishingto
compromise social and businessrelations with their peers.

8.8     The landtenure regimeis a major constraint on sustainability. Although it is not
openly acknowledged by Mahaweli staff between30 percent and 50 percent o f plots in
SystemC belong to absenteeclaimants. Many ofthese absenteeswere the original

                                                  14


  settlers, coming from towns and lacking farming experience (e.g. traders). When they
  failed to prosper they movedback to the town either selling their plots or leasing them to
  sharecroppers-clandestinely     inbothcases. The absenteesremainprimemovers inthe
  local economy. They show up to Farmer Organization meetings.They provide inputsto
 their tenants inexchange for a crop share. Giventhat this is anillegallease arrangement
 tenants have limitedbargainingpower over the revenue share they receive, which may
 helpexplainthe persistence o fpoverty andthe quasi-subsistence nature o fthe farm
 economy. Although a 2003 Act makes it possible, inprinciple, for plot holders to sell
 land the state can still rescindthis right. Also, regularizing tenure relations i s complicated
 by the widespread and longstanding encroachment on SystemC reserve lands by
 outsiders. These sources o f uncertainty place at risk any benefits that the project might
 generate, compromising sustainability.

 8.9       The realtest o f sustainability is the economic healthofthe system.The 2004
 survey data depict an overall stagnation of System C. First, there i s little indication o f
 diversificationinto higher margin crops or livestock; only 10percent o f farmers plant
 field crops other thanpaddy, andmeanincome from these alternative crops accounts for
 only one percent o f total household income. Mahaweli staff in System C indicatedthat
 farmers are reluctant to diversify: becausethe markets for alternative crops are less
 secure; because traders would not be interested inpurchasing the very small volumes o f
 other field crops that individual farmers produce; and becausethe costs o f productionof
 other field crops are high.

 8.10      Second, under one percent ofrespondentshave installed drip, spray, andpump
 irrigation(suggestingthat water i s too cheap tojustify these more intensivetechnologies).
Third, none ofthe farmers holdtitle to their land, whichprobablyhelpsto strengthenthe
impression intheir minds that they are dependents o f a government scheme rather than
individual entrepreneurs. Fourth, for only 6 percent does the income from sale o f farm
produce exceedincome from all other sources. This appears to be a subsistence-oriented
monocrop farming system, heavily dependent on off-farm wage earnings. Focusing on
paddy productionalone-the        original rationale o fthe Mahaweliprogram-the       data do not
look so bad. Yields (4.4 tons per hectare), although somewhat below appraisal
expectations, are acceptableby regional standards, probablybecause almost all farmers
makeextensiveuse ofimprovedseed; also cropping intensityis adequate, probably
reflectingthe reported reliability o fwater supply (Annex A, Table A9). Butthe overall lack
o fproductivity growth inthe economy of System C does not bode well for the future.

8.11      Ifsustainability is viewedfromthenarrowperspectiveofthe continuedviability
o f the irrigationworks, investmentbenefits have beensustained. But ifa higher standard
i s taken-the   capacity for self-sustaining growth-clearly    the investmenthas failed:
farmers are not improving their farms and are heavily dependenton earnings and
transfers from outside the irrigation scheme.

8.12     OEDtherefore rates sustainability as unlikely.

                                                        15


 9.       InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

 OED's 1994 Assessment

 9.1      Institutional development was rated modest but there was no substantive
discussion o f this evaluation criterion. The report does note that one o f the unintended
consequences o f the government's 1977 decision to acceleratethe pace of the Mahaweli
 scheme was to pushup inflation.

OED's 2004 Reassessment

9.2       The project didnot include any institutionaldevelopment objectives, either latent
or explicit. As noted above, the failure to address constraints inthe incentive regime and
to make adequate allowance for the formation and strengthening o f water user groups
reduced the relevance o f the project's development objectives. There were no preceding
or parallel operations addressing these issues. The sector portfolio inSri Lanka c.1980
is-with the exceptionofa 1979projectto support the introductiono f a Training and
Visit systemo f agricultural extension-given              over to integrated rural development,
irrigation, and tree crop diversification, all o f which emphasized physical rather than
institutional objectives.

9.3      A 1986 OEDreport onthe Bank's assistanceto Sri Lankapoints to one areawhere
the projecthadaninstitutionaldevelopment impact-by                    influencingthe water pricing
policy. In 1981, during the negotiations for the project, extensivediscussions on cost
recovery took place betweenthe Bankandthe government. Water charges were to be
collected inthe Mahaweli starting inSeptember 1982 at a level equivalent to 22 percent o f
the expected operation and maintenance costs, risingto 100percent o fthose costs by 1991.
The government initially stalled but eventually respondedbecause, according to OED, the
Bank made it clear that it would not support further investmentinirrigation ifcost recovery
was not addressed. InJuly 1983,the Cabinet approved the introductiono f a nationwide
program o fwater charges, aimingto achieve full cost recovery within five years.

9.4      Butthe Bank's long-term leverage over cost recoverywas limited.InSystemC
specifically, data for 1984-96 from the Mahaweli authority indicate that the collection o f
operations and maintenance charges from users was very erratic; it peaked inreal terms
in 1991falling to afractionofthat bythe mid-199Os.l5NeitherMahaweli staffnor
farmers give highpriority to maximizing the efficiency o f water use, reducing the support
for charges. In 1998,the Bank estimated that unrecovered irrigation costs-mainly
attributable to large-scale schemes likethe Mahaweli-amounted                   to US$250 millionper
year, or 3 percent o f GDP.

9.5      Didthe project have any unintendedimpacts on institutionaldevelopment-
changesto the policy framework andto organizational capacity that may be attributed to

   ~




15. Indraratna op. cit., 2000, p. 170. In 1995 prices, charges collected amounted to LKR 3,562,533 in 1991
but averaged only LKR 86,811 in 1995-96.

                                                    16


 the project evenifthey were not anticipatedat appraisal?This is impossible to prove. It
 couldbe arguedthat the government's pushto promote Farmer Organizations, which began
 in1991immediately after project implementationwas completed, wouldnothavetaken
 place ifthe irrigationinvestmentshadnot beenmade inthe first case. But the evidence
 from key informants and field visits concerning the continuing financial dependence o fthe
 Organizations on government hardlypoints to robust institutional development.

 9.6     Alternatively, it could be argued that the very stagnation o fthe Mahaweli scheme,
 givenits enormous cost andhighprofile, couldhave spurredthe government to the policy
 reforms neededto encourage farmers inthe Mahaweli and elsewhere to diversify out o f
 paddy into higher margin crops and livestock. But as recent Bank analytic work has
 demonstrated, reform progress remains limited.Government interventions inagricultural
 commodity and factor markets and the absence o f secure land rights continue to curb
 productivity growth inagriculture.'6 Steps have beentaken to liberalize land markets, but
 progress indeveloping a private seed industryhas stalled and a draft National Water
 Policy formulated in2000 has not beenimplemented(inpolicy terms, water remains
 largely a free good). Also, the agriculture extension service-earlier  Bank support
 notwithstanding-is     very patchy. In 1999-2000, only 13 percent o f farm households
 reported having received technical assistance from a government extension agency.
 Coverage o f extension services i s particularly bad inthe Dry Zone provinces where the
 various Mahaweli systems are located. Finally, the Bank-supported initiative to scale-
 back the Mahaweli agency and to create a multi-sector river basin authority (project
 approved in 1998) has not prospered; the government i s stalling and the Bank's latest
rating o fprogress toward project development objectives i s unsatisfactory.

9.7     Inthe light ofthese considerations, institutionaldevelopment impactis rated
negligible.



 10. Bank and BorrowerPerformance

OED's 1994Assessment

10.1    OED rated Bank and borrower performance as satisfactory arguing that the
unsatisfactory project outcome was a consequence o f the worldwide fall inrice prices and
didnor reflect badly either on project design or implementation. The report states that the
four-year implementationdelay was probably more the consequence o f an overoptimistic
guess at appraisal o f the time needed, rather than weak performance inthe field. It
indicates that the project had to be implementedby an already overstretched organization,
facing newtechnical and organizational issues.

10.2    No reference i s made to OED's 1986 review o f World Bank assistance to Sri
Lanka, which made a substantial analysis o fthe Mahaweli program, including a critical


16. World Bank, Sri Lanka: Promoting agricultural op. cit., 2003.
                                                 ...

                                                17


 evaluation o f Bank and borrower performance. (Rating of performance was less central
 and less explicit inOED's earlier assessments than it i s today).

 OED's 2004 Reassessment

 10.3     Giventhat 14years hadelapsedsince the project closed it was unreasonable to
 expect either Bank or government staff to be either available for, or capable of, shedding
 newlight onperformance duringthe implementationperiod. However, there is enough
 material inthe project completion report and OED's 1994 assessmentto cast doubt on the
 satisfactory ratings that these reports give.

 10.4    The 1994 rating seems generous giventhe doubling (inrealterms) ofproject
 costs, which suggestsweak oversight by Bank and borrower at boththe designand
 implementationphase. Also, it i s surprisingthat the Bank and borrower's pushingaside
 o fthe environmental issue (paragraph 2.17 above)-a       major focus of OED's 1994
 report-did   not appear to weigh inthe rating o f either party's performance.

 10.5    OED's 1986 report on Bank assistanceto Sri Lanka contains important insights
 on the dynamics o fthe relationship inthe periodbetweengovernment's 1977 decision to
 accelerate the Mahaweli program and the 1981 approval of the project assessed inthis
 report. Itnotes that at the time there was unanimity in Sri Lanka and among
 knowledgeable outsiders that controlling the Mahaweli river for power and irrigation
 should be a major element o f Sri Lankandevelopment. However, there was less
 unanimity about the wisdom o f greatly speeding up implementation, or the Bank's
 decision to support the accelerated program before the full engineering and economic
 studies it usually requiredhadbecome available.

 10.6    OED's 1986 report makes it clear that the Bank attached great importance to
 supporting the radical shift from a plannedto market-oriented economy espousedby the
 administrationthat took over from its more socialist predecessor in 1977. There were
 certain tradeoffs inthis relationship. Ifthere were to be some tampering with a central
aspect o f the welfare state (subsidized rice), there had to be an alternative program which
caught the imaginationo f the people: the accelerated Mahaweli was the centerpiece o f
that alternative vision. The Bank considered that quicker implementationwould help ease
the major unemploymentandforeignexchange problems facingthe government. Italso
judged that its overall relationshipwith Sri Lanka would be compromised ifit didnot
support the accelerated program. The Bank recognized that major bilateral donors were
eager to support the new government and its reforms-they        would go ahead even ifthe
Bankdemurred.

10.7    Butregardless ofthese possiblejustifications, OED's 1986report finds that Bank
andborrower should have foreseen four problems that arose with the Mahaweli program.
First,the likely escalation incosts associatedwith large, acceleratedprograms was
underestimated. Costs for a full program were estimated as LKR 11-12 billionin 1977;
by 1985 estimates for a reducedprogram hadclimbed to LKR40 billion. Rapidinflation
explained over halfthe increases but, even inreal terms, costs increased about two-thirds
above original estimates, despite cuts inthe program.

                                                      18


 10.8     Second, the acceleratedprogram placed serious strains on the economy. Transport
 facilities were especially affected, resultinginincreased cost, physical deterioration, and
 bottlenecks for other projects. The heavy use o f importedexpertise and inputs wiped out
 many o fthe alleged balance o fpayments benefits o f the project. Third, not enough care
 was taken to eliminate or scale back parts of the program where expected rates o f return
 were estimated to be low: for example, surveys done between1975 and 1978 showed that
 several o f the areas to be irrigatedhad soils less suitable for irrigated rice productionyet
 investmentwent ahead. Finally, Bank and borrower greatly underestimatedthe lengthof
 time for such an ambitious programto generate netbenefits. Critics argued that other,
 more modest interventions would have yielded a quicker payoff and would have eaten up
 less foreign exchange-rehabilitation          o f existingirrigation tanks, for example.

 10.9     In1986, OED arguedthat despitethese oversights itwas unlikely, inthe
 circumstances o f the time, that the Bank could have effectively advocated scaling back
 and slowing down certain aspects of the program. It concluded that, evenwith the benefit
 o f hindsight, the decision to support the Mahaweli should not be faulted.

 10.10 This i s not convincing. With the benefito f evengreater hindsight-but based on
 the evidence adduced inthe earlier reports-this            reassessmentfinds that there i s
 sufficient reason to rate Bank and borrower performance unsatisfactory.




 11. FindingsandLessons

 11.1    Thayer Scudder and his associates intervieweda small sample o f Mahaweli
 settlers at repeated intervals between 1979 and 2001. As early as 1984, not long after
Mahaweli 111beganto be implemented,they beganto have doubts that the program's
potential would be realized:

         At a time whenothers were emphasizing theproject's ongoing success,
         we were thefirst to inform the Minister that theAccelerated Mahaweli
         Program risked replicatingpoverty within the Mahaweli systems          ...Ashis
         unoficial advisers we had to inform him of our belief that the settlement
         component of the country s largest ever project wasfailing. A shocked
         silencefollowed-the      Minister's initial reaction being that ifsuch was
         the case he would have to resign. Since then our negative assessment
         intensijied and Vimaladharma and Wanigaratne 's recent [2001] survey
         hasfurther documentedsettler poverty and lack of multiplier effects.17
11.2     The reports by Scudder andhis associates were apparently not considered by
OED's 1994 assessment, althoughthey are mentionedinOED's 1986reviewo f Bank
assistance to Sri Lanka. The 2004 reassessment essentially reiterates findings that were
made by Scudder and his Sri Lankan colleagues 20 years ago. To summarize, OED finds:


17. Scudder, op. cit., 2003. Professor Scudder's colleague, Dr. Wanigaratne led OED's 2004 survey, using
the same instrumentthey had employedpreviously.

                                                 19


     The development effectiveness ofthe Bank's overall support to the Mahaweli
     program-credits      and loans approved between 1970 and 1998 totaling one-half o f
     US$l billion inreal terms-has       beenextremely limited;
     The incomes o ffarm families settled inSystem C have declined inrealterms over the
     two decades or so since they were relocated; and the mean income level i s now below
     the absolute poverty line; partly for this reasonthere was muchlower than expected
     creation o f ancillary off-farm employment;
     The primary rationale for the program-rice         import substitution-ceased    to be
     tenable shortly after Mahaweli I11was approved (1981) owing to the halving o f world
     rice prices; restoring the economic viability of the Third Mahaweliproject hinged on
     diversifying out o f paddy-but     neitherthe mindset ofthe MahaweliAuthority nor the
     broader policy environment were conducive to diversification, a circumstance that
     remains largely true today; and
     Although government sought to devolve part o f the responsibilityfor operation and
     maintenance on Farmer Organizations, these groups remain government clients and
     are not financially self-sustaining.

 11.3    Many lessons may be drawn from the Bank's protracted involvement with the
 Mahaweli program. Many o f these lessons have beentaken into account inthe design o f
 more-recently prepared Bank projects. For example, there i s widespread recognition
 today that investmentsininfrastructure needto be accompanied by measuresto reform
 the policy environment andto strengthen institutions. Water needs to be pricedto reflect
the growing (cross-sector) competitionfor supplies; and irrigationoperation and
maintenance costs needto be recovered from users ifpublic schemes are not to be an
excessive burden on the recurrent budget.

 11.4   The following more specific lessonsmay be derivedfrom the ThirdMahaweli
Project. First, rushing technical and economicfeasibility studies, or paying insufjcient
attention to theJindings is likely to result in an unsatisfactoryproject outcome. Inthis
case, the Bank felt pressuredto lend inorder to builda relationship with a promising new
government. Consequently, not enough care was taken either to estimate or subsequently
to contain the costs o f the proposed irrigation schemes. Important environmental
considerations bearing on the preservation o f biodiversity and the management o f
conflicts betweensettlers and wildlife were brushedunder the carpet. The long-term
fiscal implications were downplayed and the inflationary impact o f project funding was
not taken seriously enough.

11.5    Second, settlementprograms that do not select candidates withprevious farming
experience and which do notprovide settlers withfull title to their land are not likely to
prosper. This project, to date, has failed to deliver security o ftenure to farmers. Title was
not given to the farmers out of apaternalistic concern that they would speculate withthe
landratherthanfarm it.The importance ofsecureproperty rightswas less widely
recognized in 1980when the project was appraisedthanit is now. Without title, farmers are
not legally able to sell their plots and, ifthey sell illegally, are less likelyto recoup the
value of investmentsthey have made. This discourages less successful farmers from selling
upandimpedesconsolidation ofplots that are too small to beviable.

                                              20


11.6    Third, using repeated interviews with a small number of households,
supplemented by interviews with local leaders and community groups is an effective low-
cost techniquefor tracking theperformance of rural developmentprojects. The work by
Scudder and his Sri Lankancolleagues bear this out. Early on Scudder's approach was
describedas "controversial" byBank evaluation expertsbecausethe small initial sample
was opportunistic not random (based on who was available for interview-subject to
certain screening criteria), and was maintained almost without rotation over several years.
The Bank suggestedthat this approach was appropriate for highlighting problems to be
further explored, butcould not beusedto draw reliable conclusions about anentire
population. Itwas also suggestedthat the researchers' familiarity with the respondents-
and the possibility that respondents would expect to receive help inexchange for
information-might         encourage respondentsto underreport their incomes.'* Nevertheless,
at a cost o f only US$20,000-US$40,000 per survey Scudder and his colleagues were able
to predict early on that the Mahaweli program would not fulfill its development
objectives.




18. Kumar, op. cit., 1993, p. 24.

                                                    21                                  Annex A


Annex A. Tables

Table Al. Summary Assessment of Key IndicatorsIn Successive EvaluationReports

                                                                Evaluation Report (Year)
Indicators                                             PCR (1993)    PAR (1994)      PPRR (2004)
(1) Construction timely?                                 No              No              No
(2) Construction cost effective?                         No              No              No
(3) Irrigated area target met?                           No              No              No
(4) Roadlsocial infrastructure target met?               Yes             Yes             No
(5) Water supply reliable?                               NIA             N/A             Yes
(6) Settler selection criteria sound?                    No              NIA             No
(7) Settler target met?                                  No              No              Yes
(8) Settlers given land title?                           NIA             NIA             No
(9) Farmers well organized?                              NIA             No              No
(10) O&M adequate?                                       No              No              No
(11)Ag. services adequate?                               No              NIA             No
(12) Paddy yield target met?                             Yes             No              No
(13) Cropping intensity target met?                      No              NIA             Yes
(14) Better NRM?                                         No              No              No
(15) World prices supportive?                            No              No              No
(16) Govt. policy supportive?                            No              NIA             No
(17) Paddy output target met?                            No              No              No
(18) Non-paddy farm target met?                          Yes            Yes              No
(19) Farm income target met?                             No              NIA             No___
N/A Not available or not assessed.
*   But see Table for qualification.
PCR      Project Completion Report.
PAR      Performance Audit Report (OED).
PPRR     Project Performance Reassessment Report (OED).
O&M      Operation and maintenance of irrigation works.
NRM      Natural resource management.

4




 t
      rc
      0


 z-  z

                                                     23                              Annex A


Table A2. Bearing of Indicators on Main Evaluation Criteria (2004 Reassessment)
                                                           Evaluation Criteria
                                                                                Institutional
                                                                                Development
Indicators                                    Outcome       Sustainability        Impact
(1) Construction timely?
(2) Construction quality adequate?
(3) Irrigated area target met?
(4) Roadkocial infrastructure target
met?
(5) Water supply reliable?
(6) Settler selection criteria sound?
(7) Settler target met?
(8) Settlers given land title?
(9) Farmers well organized?
(IO) O&M adequate?
(11) Ag. services adequate?
(12) Paddy yield target met?
(13) Cropping intensity target met?
(14) Better NRM?
(15) World prices supportive?
(16) Govt. policy supportive?
(17) Paddy output target met?
(18) Non-paddy farm target met?
(19) Farm income target met?
Overall Rating                                                 Unlikely          Negligible


O&M       Operation and maintenance of irrigation works.
NRM       Natural resource management

                                                        24                                       Annex A


 Table A3. ProjectPerformancein Relationto AppraisalTargets
  Targets                            Appraisal                   Actual Result By Evaluation Report (Year)
                                      Expectation                PCR            PAR          PPRR
                                      SAR                        (1993)         (1994)        (2004)
                                      (1981)
 New irrigated area (ha)              18,500                     17,683         17,683        17,683
 Cropping intensitylb                 180                        199            Nla           187
 Paddy yield (Maha) (tlha)            Mean 4.7                   5.2            Mean 4.0      Mean 4.4le
 Paddy yield (Yala) (tlha)                                       4.8
 Incremental paddy output (t)         185,800lf                  132,76219      145,000       157,0001h
 Farm families settledla              18,500                     17,195         16,136        18,02611
 Farm income increase (%)IC          +429                        +95-143/g      Nla          +32
 Non-paddy farm income (%)Id         9                           11             10            1
 Farm jobs created (m workdays)      3.1 p.a.                    3.6 p.a.       Nla           Nla
 Fuel wood plantations (ha)          3,000                       1,200          Nla           Nla
 Cashew plantations (ha)             2,000                       300            Nla           Nla
 Nla Not available or not assessed.
 SAR      Staff Appraisal Report.
 PCR      Project Completion Report.
 PAR      Performance Audit Report (OED).
 PPRR     Project Performance Reassessment Report (OED).
 la   Zones 3 to 6 of System C only; system-wide, the SAR expected 24,100 farmer families to be settled.
Ib Area cultivated in paddy (Maha plus Yala seasons)/lrrigated area x 100.
I C   Refers to new settlers, applying "non-mechanized broadcast" model of paddy farming-the most widely-
     diffused model (SAR, Annex 4, Table 3). The appraisal estimate was compared to findings from farm
     surveys in 1991 (see PCR, p. 46) and 2004 (OED). Thus:

                 Net Benefits Before Financing        Currentprices     Constant prices
                 at Full Development            - LKR/family/year 1995 LKR/family/year
                 SAR (1981)
                   (1) Without project               5,073              24,157
                   (2) With project                  26,850             127,857
                   (3) % Increase (2) over (1)                          +429
                 PCR Survey (1991)
                   (4) With project                  31,973             45,676
                   (5) % Increase (4) over (1)                          +89
                 PPRR Survey (2004)
                   (6) With project                  60,793             31,829
                   (7) % Increase (6) over (1)                          +32

Id   Income from crops other than paddy as a proportion of total farm income at full development (1995):
     refers to other annuals, perennials, fuel wood, cashews and output from homestead plots (see Annex 4,
     Table 8, SAR). PAR estimate added income from dairying (p. 59).
le The yield per season based on an average of the past three years. There is no significant difference
     between yields for each of the two seasons (maha and yala).
If   Based on Annex 3, Table 3 of SAR. The SAR says that at full development incremental output would
     be 185,OOt of paddy, equivalent to 126,300 t of rice (p. 35). (PCR and PAR mistakenly give 153,000 t
     incremental tons of paddy as the appraisal target).
/g   PCR, Part Ill, Section 6A ("Direct Benefits"), p. 42.
Ih   For Zones 3-6, total paddy output averaged 169,000 tons in 2001-03. Less "without project" paddy
    output (12,200 t, according to SAR, Annex 3, Table 3) this gives a figure of about 157,000 tons.
Ii This is the number of registeredfarmers in Zones 3 to 6 in 2003.

                                                        25                                          Annex A


Table A4. IrrigationInvestmentsin Sri Lanka, 1950-1997

                                   Investment :SLR billion in 1995 prices (Percent of TotalYa
                                      Public investment
                                                              Operations
                        New                                      and              Private
                   construction          Rehabilitation      maintenance       investmenffb           Total
1950                  2.47 (96)                                0.09 (4)                             2.56 (100)
1955                  2.36 (96)                                0.11 (4)                             2.46 (100)
1960                  1.54 (83)                                0.32 (17)                            1.86 (100)
1965                  1.59 (91)                                0.16 (9)                             1.75 (100)
1970                  2.55 (93)                                0.20 (7)                             2.75 (100)
1975                  2.86 (89)             0.01 (0)          0.33 (10)           0.02 (1)          3.22 (100)
1980                  7.76 (89)             0.58 (7)           0.35 (4)           0.03 (0)          8.71 (100)
1985                  7.11 (81)            1.16 (13)           0.40 (5)           0.08 (1)          8.74 (100)
1990                  1,73 (63)            0.52 (19)          0.27 (IO)           0.23 (8)          2.74 (100)
1995                 0.69 (35)             0.61 (31)          0.28 (14)           0.37 (19)         1.96 (100)
1997                 0.62 (28)             0.92 (41)          0.26 (11)           0.44 (19)         2.23 (100)
Source : M. Kikuchi et. al., Irrigation Sector in Sri Lanka, (Research Report No. 62), InternationalWater
Management Institute, Colombo, Sri Lanka, 2002, Table 1, p. 5.
la Five-year averages centering on the years shown. /b Investments in agro-wells and irrigation pumps by
farmers.

                                                           26                                            Annex A


Table A5. Sri Lanka Third Mahaweli GangaDevelopmentProject (C1166)-
DetailedFeatures
Specific Objectives          ActiondTargets Envisaged at             Significant Inputs and Outputs
Components                   Appraisal (SAR)                         (PCR)
(Geographic scope)
(1) Build Minipe             26 kms of canal, concrete-lined,        Estimated cost 593 m. rupees, Actual cost 807
Transbasin Canal             extending from Minipe to Ulhitiya       m. rupees
(System-wide)                Reservoir.                              Fully completed, 36% over budget.
(2) Build other canals and   Main Canal No. 2 (24 kms);              Estimated cost 506 m. rupees,Actual cost
field drains, including Main Branch canals (105 kms);                2,868 m rupees
Canal No. ('Ones 3-6)        D&F canals (1,210 kms);                 Main Canal No. 2 (17 kms)
                             Drains (815 kms),                       Branch canals (45 kms)
                             Command area of 18,500 ha               D&F canals (1,418 kms)
                             Development plan to be based on a       Drains (540 kms)
                             1,000 ha representative area.           Command area of 17,683 ha
                                                                     Partially completed, 467% over budget
(3) Prepare land for         31,000 has to be cleared;               Estimated cost 113m rupees,Actual cost 246m
farming (Zones 3-6)          1,000ha conserved as forest             rupees
                                                                     20,609 has cleared
                                                                     Partially completed, 118% over budget
(4) Build social             303 schools                             Estimated cost 102 m. rupees.
infrastructure (Zones 3-6    63 medicallpublic health buildings      Actual cost, 645 m. rupees
plus Zone 2)                 400 km of roads                         87 schools built
                             Settle 24,100 farm families.            35 medicaVpublic health buildings
                                                                     551 km of roads
                                                                     17,195 farm families settled
                                                                     Partially completed, 532% over budget
(5) Establish cashew and     2,000 ha of cashew                      Estimated cost, 171 m. rupees
fuelwood plantations         3,000 ha of fuelwood                    Actual cost, 191 m. rupees
(Zones 3-6)                                                          2,000 ha of cashew planted; but only 15% of
                                                                     trees survived.
                                                                     1,200 ha of fuelwood planted
                                                                     Partially completed, 12% over budget
(6) Giranduru Kotte          Classrooms, laboratories and            Project provided equipment only
training center and farm     accommodation for 100farmer             (Buildings financed by EU)
(located in Zone 2 but       participants
serving whole System)                                                Estimated cost of center equipment 8.1 m
                                                                     rupees
                                                                     Actual cost, nil
(7) Farm machinery hire      150 tractors plus implements,           Machinery: Estimated cost 81.2 m rupees;
and agricultural Support     Central Store at Dehiatte Kandiya       Actual cost 152 m rupees
services (System-wide)                                               Services: Cost not specified at appraisal;
                                                                     Actual cost 57 m rupees
                                                                     Draft animals and dairy cows supplied to
                                                                     settlers (MEA initiative, outside project)
(8) Monitoring program      Agro-economic surveys to assess project  Agro-economic surveys and irrigation Study
(System-wide)               impact.                                  partially completed.
                            Study of irrigation delivery and system  No actual cost available.
                            losses.

Source: SAR & PCR

SAR       Staff Appraisal Report.
PCR       Project Completion Report.
D&F       Distributary & Field (Canals).
FO        Farmers Organization.
MEA       Mahaweli Economic Agency.
O&M       Operation and maintenance of irrigation works.

                                                  27                                   Annex A


TableA6. HouseholdIncome: SampledHouseholdsinMahaweliSystem C

lrrigation                     Annual Net Income per Farm Family in Current Rupees
scheme                                            (Percentage of total)
(N of farmers         Total          On-Farm           Off-Farm         Non-Farm       Paddy
interviewed)
Zone 1               79,363           46,078             2,725           30,560        46,078
(N=40)               (100.0)          (58.1)             (3.4)            (38.5)       (58.1)
Zone 3               60,476           41,626             4,650           14,200        39,451
(N=40)               (100.0)          (68.8)             (7.7)            (23.5)       (65.2)
Zone 4               56,351           35,981             5,145           15,225        35,981
(N=60)               (100.0)          (63.9)             (9.1)            (27.0)       (63.9)
Zone 5               76,911           36,805             2,707           37,400        36,805
(N=30)               (100.0)          (47.9)             (3.5)            (48.6)       (47.9)
Zone 6               29,223           19,123             1,733            8,367        19,123
(N=30)               (100.0)          (65.4)             (5.9)            (28.6)       (65.4)
ALL                  60,793           36,724             3,685           20,384        36,289
     US$*             625              377                38                209         373
(N=200)             (100.0)           (60.4)             (6.1)            (33.5)       (59.7)
Source: OED Farm Survey, 2004.


On-farm        Paddy and other crops.
Off-farm       Wages from working as a farm laborer in locality.
Non-farm       All other income sources, including wages earned outside agriculture.
*              Exchange rate, February 2, 2004: US$1.OO = 97.33 LKR.

P   .E

4
Gn

4
4n                       s h


                           I-




                           v
                           F
                           pr)
                          c\1




                         h
                         W
                            I



                                  u
                                  rn
                                  a,
                                  3
                                  -0
                                  a,
                                  rn
                                  a,

                         h        c
                         9        0
                         m        -a,%
                                  -Bm
                                  I-,

0                                 c
                                  0
m                                 c
                                  r
                                  m
                         h
                         0        C
                                  5
                                  m
                         W
                                  E
                                  8
                                  srn
                                  L



                                  c
                                  C
                                  8m
                        h         3
                       J
                         m
                                  W
                                  a,




            0
           .4-
       -a,a
        U.-
      c     a
            m    2m   0
                 5    3

                                               31                                     Annex A


 Table A10. Trends inAnnual CashIncome, Settler Householdsin System C
___-
 Survey           Total Cash           Total Cash               Percentage Share from
 Period           Income Per           Incomeper         On-farm       Off-farm       Non-farm
                Household Per       Household Per
                     Year                 Year
                 Current LKRs       Constant 1995
                                         LKRs
 1989-901a          31,164               58,800             76.9           5.3          17.8
 1992-931a          64,966               84,371             83.3           4.2          12.5
 1994-951a          71,890               78,141             80.5           1.8          17.7
 1994-951a          73,940               80,369             79.2           4.3          16.5
 1996-971a          54,648               48,792             82.3           3.4          14.3
 2000-01la          71,208               48,441             43.0          11.8          45.2
 2003-04lb          57,707               30,213             58.3           6.4          35.3

 Source: /a R. D.Wanigaratna with K.P. Wimaladharma, The Ninth Field Report on The Mahaweli
 Programme of Sri Lanka, Colombo, June 23, 2001, Table 11, p.63.
 Ib OED Farm Survey, 2004.




 FigureA2. World RicePricein ConstantDollars
 (Thai, 5% broken in 1990US$per metricton)




       1000.00 -

    +   800.00 -




        200.00 -




Source: World Bank

                                                     32                                        Annex A


 TableAll. EconomicCash Flow (LKR million)

           costs                     Benefits             Total Net Benefits           Economic Price of
                                                                                       Rice at Farm-gate
                                                         7 =[BO) +       =[B(ii) +
                                                                           -  . .
                                                           B(iii)j;(A)   B(iii)]-(A)
                                                          -226.0        -226
                                                          -700.5        -703
                                                          -559.7        -583
                                                          -935.6        -995.5
                                                          -676.0        -816.3
                                                          -1080.7       -1258
                                                          -681.5        -965.1
                                                          -783.5        -1062.7
                                                          -84.8         -341.8
                                                          -5.3          -343.3
                                                                        -229.7
                                                                        -104.6
                                                         305.4          246.4




                                                         415.2          350.6

 04
 2005-     635.6         869.3      835       128.6                                 8,824
 31
I                                                                      I
 ERR     I                                               4%            I2%
 Source: Project Completion Report, Annex 1, Tables : and 8; M.Kikuchi et al., Irrigation Sector in Sri
 Lanka (Research Report, No. 62), International Water Management Institute, Colombo, 2002, Annex
 Table a-1, pp. 33-34.

 "Costs" comprise capital costs, recurrent costs, crop production costs and net benefits foregone
 ("without project" scenario).
 "Other Benefits" comprise other field crops, fuelwood, cashew, income from homestead plot and
 dairying.
 "Economic price o f rice at the farmgate": the PPRR series is taken from Kikuchi et al. This series is
 based on the price o f Thai rice, 25% broken, converted to rough rice at the farm-gate in Sri Lanka.

                                                        33                                     Annex B


 Annex B. BasicData Sheet

 THIRD MAHAWELI                 GANGADEVELOPMENT                PROJECT       (CREDIT 1166-CE)

 Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                                 Appraisal           Actual or          Actual as % of
                                                 estimate        current estimate     appraisal estimate
 IDA Credit                                        90.0               82.8                    92
 Cofinancing                                       84.7               84.7                   100
 Government                                        25.3               25.3                   100
Total proiect costs                               200.0               192.7                   96


 Cumulative Estimatedand Actual Disbursements(US$million)
                             FY82   FY83   FY84  FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88   FY89    FY90     FY91   FY92
 Appraisal estimate          20.5    44.0  55.5  65.5    75.5     85.5   90.0     -
 Actual                      13.10  21.77  30.79 39.29   40.23   42.89   47.43  50.74   55.51    61.95  68.48
 Actual as % ofestimate      63.9    49.5  55.5  60.0    53.3     50.2   52.7    56.4   61.7     68.8   76.1
  Date of final disbursement: May 12, 1992


ProjectDates
                                                        Original                        Actual
Identification                                          1965-1968                      1965-1968
Preparation                                          December 1979                  December 1979
Appraisal                                              March 1980                   March/April 1980
Negotiation                                       April 28-May 6, 1981           April 28-May 6, 1981
Approval                                          December 16, 1980                  June 23, 1981
Effectiveness                                       February 8, 1982                February 8, 1982
Credit closing                                    December 31, 1987                  May 12, 1992


StaffInmts (staff weeks)
                                                 Actual Weeks
~~




  Preamraisal                                        96.0
  Appraisal                                         183.2
  Negotiations                                       17.7
  Supervision                                       122.2
  Completion                                         19.9
  Total                                             439.9

                                                                                               Annex B


Mission Data
                                                                                            Performance rating
                        (montWyear)
                            Date          persons
                                           No. of        Specializations represented   Implementation Development
                                                                                           status       objectives
 Supervision1            April 1982                                   E
 Supervision2           December 1982                              E, AE
 Supervision3           January 1984                                  E
 Supervision4           February 1985                              A, AE
 Supervision5          November 1985                             E, AE, FC
 Supervision6             July 1986                               AE, AC
 Supervision7           January 1987                               AE, E
 Supervision8           October 1987                               AE, E
 Supervision9            June 1988                               AE, E(2)
 Supervision10
 (MTR)                   March 1989          3                   AE, E(2)                    2              1

 Supervision11           March 1990          2                     AE, E                     2              2
 Supervision12          October 1990         2                     AE, E                     2              2
 Supervision13           June 1991           4                  AE, E(2), EC                 3              2
 Supervision14         November 1991         2                     AE, E                     3              2

Specializationsrepresented:AE: Agricultural Economist; EC:Economist; E:Engineer; AC: Agronomist
Consultant; FC:FinancialConsultant.

Performanceratings: 1: Improving; 2: Stationary; 3: Outstanding.


Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency:
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                               Credit no.         Amount          Board date
                                                                         (US$ million)
Sri Lanka - Mahaweli Ganga Development Project           1970-CE             29.0       December 30,1969
Sri Lanka -Mahaweli Ganga Development It                 1977-CE             19.0        March 31, 1977
Sri Lanka - Mahaweli Ganga Technical Assistance          1980-CE              3.0       January 10, 1980
Sri Lanka -Mahaweli  Ganga Development 111               1981-CE             90.0         May 26, 1981
Sri Lanka Mahaweli Ganga Development IV                  1494-CE             42.1          May 4, 1984
Sri Lanka Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation
         --                                              3058-CE             57.0       February 23, 1998
Proiect

                                                35                              Annex C


  Annex C. OED Farm Survey Questionnaire

  Note. This instrumentshould only be applied to households that have beenin
  existence for at least five years. The "household" refers to any persons sleeping
  together under the same roof and eating from the same pot; it may includepersons
  who are temporarily residing elsewhere (but who are expected to return).

  0. Identifiers
  Ouestionnaire No.
  District
  Village
 Name o f IrrigationScheme
 Date o f Interview

I I.Informationabout       HouseholdHead (HH)
  1.Age
 2. Sex




                                                      NofMales            NofFemales
 Indicatenumber of persons ineach sedage
 group
  Below 5 years
   6- 15 Years
  16- 40 Years
  41 60 Years
     -




                                                      Location o f Males  Location o f
                                                                          Females
 Child 1
 Child 2
Child 3
Child 4
Child 5
Child 6

                                               36                      Annex C




                                                                  Iallthatapply    1
/AHousing




 1. Team oftwo trainedbuffalo or oxen
 2. Two or more dairy cows



                                                              Now     Five
                                                                      Years
                                                                      Ago
 1,Doesthe householdhave a formaltitle to any of the land
that it farms (Le. one that allowsfor the householdto
legally sell this land)? (Yes/No)
2. How muchlandis ownedby this household?(ha)
3. Howmuchlandrented inor otherwisereceived?(ha)
4. Takingtogether all the landthat is owned, rentedinor
otherwisereceived, what is the area under irrigation?(ha)
5. Howmuchlandi s landrentedout or otherwisegivento
others?(ha)
6. What area is plantedinpaddy duringthe maha season?
(ha)
7. What is the average paddy yield (over three maha
seasons)?(kgha)
8. What area i s plantedinpaddy duringtheyala season?(ha)
9. What i s the average paddy yield (over threeyala
seasons)?(kgha)
10. What is the total area plantedinother field crops, taking
togetherthe mahaplus theyala seasons?(ha)

r 1                                                                              1
                                                37                      Annex C



V. (continued)                                                          Five
                                                                        Years
                                                                Now     Ago
 11. Iflivestock are reared, are the milk or any other livestock
products producedby the householdsold? (Yes/No)                        I
12. How many cows are ownedby the household? (N)                                 I

13. Does the household graze the cows it owns on land
belonging to other households? (Yes/No)
14. Does the household use its land to graze cattle belonging
to other households? (Yes/No)
 15. Does the household trade inproducts it does not produce
(that is, buying to sell)? (Yes/No)
16. Does the household receive an income from tank-based
fishing or aquaculture? (Yes/No)
17.Does the household receive an income rentingout
tractors and/or plow teams that it owns (Yes/No)
18. D o any household members spend more than 3 months
per year working for a wage inthe locality (still residingat
home)? (Yes/No)
19. D o any household members spendtime working for a
wage outside the locality (residing away from the
household)? (Yes/No)
20. I s the income that the household receives fiom selling
the farm products itproduces larger than the income from
all other sources (wages, trading etc.)? (Yes/No)
21, I s fuel for cooking derivedmainly from collecting
firewood from common land? (Yes/No)
22. Has this household experienced crop damage as a result
o f elephants trampling plantedareas? (Yes/No)

                                                     38                        Annex C



  VI. Farm Technolow Level*
                                                                      Now      Five

                                                                               Ago*
                                                                               Years

  1. I s the land farmed by the household equipped with
  any ofthe following: drip irrigation; spray irrigation; irrigation
  pump?(Yes/No)
  2. Does the household have a well on its land?(Yes/No)
  3. Whatproportion o f the paddy seed usedeach year (maha
  plus yala) i s improved? (l=More than 50%; 2=50% or less)
  4. I s the paddy mechanically transplanted/row seeded?
  (Yes/No)
  5. What i s the total volume o f fertilizer (all types) applied to
  paddy cultivation each year (mahaplus yala)? (Kgs)
  6. Are herbicides and/or pesticides applied to paddy
  cultivation? (Yes/No)
  7. Inwhat percentage o f the cultivated area i s straw appliedas
  a fertilizer each year (maha plus yala) (%)
  8. Are bird roosts installed inthe land farmed by household?
  (Yes/No)




                                                          Satisfied  Fairly    Not
                                                                     Satisfied Satisfied
I water
  1. How satisfied are you with the supply o f
          you receive from the irrigationsystem?
  2. How satisfied are you with the overall design
  o f the irrigation system (headworks, main canal,
 distributary and field canals)?   *
 3. H o w satisfied are you with the way that
 irrigationwater is shared betweenfarmers inthe
 system?
 4. How satisfied are you with the arrangements
 for maintaining the headworks and main canals?
 5. How satisfied are you with the arrangements
 for maintaining distributary and field canals?     *
 6. How satisfied are you with the rehabilitation
 works that have beencarried out inthe past five
 years? (Leave blankifno such work was done)

                                               39                         Annex C



 VIII. Assessment of the Farmer Organization"
  1.Name of Farmer Organization (FO)
 2. Year that FO was legally constituted
 3. Status (l=Handed Over: 2=Not HandedOver)

                                                    Satisfied   Fairly    Not
                                                                Satisfied Satisfied
 4. How satisfied are you with thejob done by
 the FO inorganizingrehabilitationo f the
 irrigation system?(Leave blank ifno such work
 has been conducted over thepastfiveyears)
 5 . How satisfied are you with thejob done by
 the FO inorganizingregular maintenance work?
 (Leave blank if FO doesperform thisfunction)
 6. How satisfied are you with the assistance that
 the FO provides insupplyingfarm inputs (e.g.
 fertilizer, seed)? (Leave blank ifF0 does not
 perform thisfunction)
 7. How satisfied are you with the assistance that
 the FOprovides inmarketingpaddy? (Leave
 blank ifF0 does notperform thisfunction)
 8. How satisfied are you with the assistance that
 the FOprovides inhelpingits membersget
 access to credit?(Leave blank ifF0 does not                   1         I
 9. How satisfied are you with the information
 that the FOprovides about the use o f funds at its
 disposal?
 10. How satisfied are you with the FO's ability
 to help settle disputes betweenmembers (e.g.
 over access to water)?




                                                   Paddy        OFCs      Livestock
 1. CultivatedArea (Ha./ 2-Season)
 2. Production(Bu./Kilos./ 2-Season)
 3. Amount Sold (kg. /2-Season)
 4. Gross Income (Rs./ 2-Season)
 5. Gross Cash Income (Rs./ 2-Season)
I8. Total Input cost* (Rs./ 2- Season)
 9. Net Income (Rs./ 2-Season)

                                                40                       Annex C



 IX (ii)Incomes (Off- Farm)
~                                                       (RsJ2-Season)
 1.Rentals (from hiring out tractor, thresher, sprayer,
 buffalo, and leasing out land)
 2. Hiring out labor (farm work)
 3. Other
 4. Costs o f repair and maintenance
 5. Other Costs
 5. Gross Cash Income
 6. Net Cash Income

d                                                      (Rs./Month)   Rs/2-Season l
 1.Government Sector employments: Civilian
 2. Government Sector employments: Armed Forces
 3.. Organised Private sector employments
     -- Others
        Factory Workers

 4. Wage work
 5. Self employment
 6. Employment abroad
 7. Other:
 8. Gross Cash Income
 9. costs
 1O.Net Cash Income

