Docamit of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repot Not 12509
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD 1AHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1166-CE)
JOVEKBER 22, 1993
FILE COPY
Report No:         12509
Type: PCR
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used b recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Name of Currencv = Sri Lanka Rupees (Rs)
Appraisal Year (1980) US$1 - Rs 16.5
Average 1981-1990 US$1 = Rs 28.2
Completion Year (1991) US$1 = Rs 41.4
Fiscal Year of Borrower
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures
All tons are metric tons (2,204.6 Ibs)
1 acre = 0.4047 ha
1 gallon = 4.54 liters
1 bushel of paddy = 20.8655 kg
Abbreviations
AMDP         =            Accelerated Mahaweli Development Program
BMS          =            Bench Mark Survey
D and F      =            distributary and field (canals)
EEC                       European Economic Community
ERR          =            economic rate of return
FMU          =            Flow Monitoring Unit
FO                        farmer organisation
GDP          =            gross domestic product
GOSL         =            Government of Sri Lanka
JICA         =            Japanese International Cooperation Agency
MASL         =            Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka
MCM          =            million cubic meters
MDB          =            Mahaweli Development Board
MEA                       Mahaweli Economic Agency
MECA                      Mahaweli Engineering and Construction Agency
MUP          =            Model Unit Program
O&M                       operation and maintenance
ODA          =            Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
OECF         =            Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
OFC          =            other field crops
OFD          =            on-farm development
PCR          =            Project Completion Report
PMHE         =            Promoting Multifunctional Household Environments
RPM          =            Resident Project Manager
SAR                       Staff Appraisal Report
SLCC         =            Sri Lanka Cashew Corporation
SOP          =            Seasonal Operation Plan
USAID        =            United States Agency for International Development
WFP                       World Food Programme
WMS          =            Water Management Secretariat



BOR oMCwM Use ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of lraotor-enetal
Opesations Evtluadon                                              November 22, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXEC-tW DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion R port on Sri Lanka
Third Mabawei Gani Development Project (Credit 1166-CE)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Sri Lanka - Third Mahaweli Ganga
Development Project (Credit 1166-CE). The Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and Ell were
prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
This was the third irrigation project assisted by the Bank under the Mahaweli Ganga
Development Prngram: a key part of the Government's development strategy. The project
provided irrigation infastructure for about 28,000 hectares, cleared jungle, settled farmers,
assisted on-farm development, and constructed roads and social infrastructure.
Although construction, settlement and production targets were largely met when the
Credit closed, the project will not be completed until 1994 after great delays. There were many
implementation problems, costs exceeded estimates by a third (in US$), some deficient works
require rectification and some settlers did not meet agreed criteria.
The project outcome is rated unsatisfactory, with an economic rate of return re-estimated
by the Regional Office of 4 percent (18 percent at appraisal). This was mainly because of much
lower prices for rice, delayed implementation and higher project costs. Operation and mainte-
nance arrangements are deficient and land titles were not issued to settlers. Cost recovery was
abandoned as farm incomes are lower than expected. The program has raised environmental
issues. Institutional development objectives were only partially achieved and sustainability is
uncertain.
A further development phase is under preparation, mainly to improve parts of the physical
infrastructure and to restructure the Mahawei Authorty.
The PCR provides a full and frank account of project implementation and outcomes. Part
U (by the Borrower), using different methodolog from Part L, re-estimates the economic rate of
return at 14 percent. OED understands that comme' :  .,ure sought from the cofinanciers (the
Kuwait Fund and OECF) but that none were received.
It is intended to audit the project to follow up, inter alia, on the economic analysis, and on
sustainability and environmental issues.
Attachment
This document ihas a resticted distributio and my be used by recipients only in the pe formance of
ther offical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without Wodd Ourk oi horzation.



FCOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD MAHAWEU GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT:
(Cr. 1166-CE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ........................................ i
EVALUATION SUMA0ARY          ...................             ..................... 
PARTI ...................                                                               1
1. Project Identity .1.........................................  1
2. Background .......................................  1
3. Project Objecvesand Description ...............      ........................  2
4. Project Desig and Organization ................................................... 3
5. Project bnplmentadon ...................................  4
6. Project Resuls ..............................................................  9
7. Project Sustainability .........................                                    11
8. Bank Performance .........................                                          15
9. Borrower Performance ........................ 16
10. Project Reationship ......................... 16
1L Consuing Servis ......................  17
12. Project Documentation and Data ...................... 17
PART  .......................  18
Lo   General Comments  ............................................................  18
2.0 PCR Economic Analysi ......................                                         18
3.0 Revised Esdmate of the ERR ..................................................... 19
4.0 Farm Budget .........                                                              23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



5.0 Comments in Repect of Specific Issues under Various Sections ............................ 23
6.0 Other General Observations ..............................................       .    28
TABLES
Table 1 - Calcilation of Import Parity Price of Paddy            .                    29
Table 2 - Paddy Production and Value of Zone 3-6                .                     29
Table 3 - Paddy Production and Value of Production in Zone 1 .30
Table 4 - Calcuation of Cost of Fertlizer .31
Table S - Cost of Production of Paddy .32
Table 6 - Economic Cash Flow .33
Table 7 - Farm Budget ......................................, 34
PART m  ..35
1. Related Bank Credits .35
2. Project Timetable .36
3. CreditDisbursements.                                                                 36
4. Project Implementation .37
A. Estimated and Actua Implem.entaion                                             37
B. Implementation by Zone .38
5. Project Cost and Fmancing          ..39
A. Project Cost .39
B. Project Financig .40
C. Capital and Recurrent Expenditures by Year .41
6. Project Resuts              ..42
A. DirectBenefits .42
B. Economic Impat .42
C. Finacial Impact .42
D. Studies .42
7. Status of Covenants .43
8. Use of Bank Resources .44
A. Staff Inputs                                                                   44
B. Miions. .44
ANNEX 1 - Fmcial and Economic Re-Evaluation
ANNEX I TABLES
Table I - Non-Mechanized and Broadcast Case With Project
Table 2 - Paddy Area, Yield and Production and Other Field Crops Area
Table 3 - Economic Price of Paddy
Table 4 - Economic Price of Fertilizers
Table 5 - Economic Price of Milk
Table 6 - Prices Used in Fnmancial and Economic Analysis
Table 7 - Inflation Indices for Local and Foreign Eachange Costs
Table 8 - Economic Cash Flow



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1166-CE)
PREFACE
1.        This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third ;iahaweli Ganga
Development Project in Sri Lanka for which IDA Credit 1166-CE in the amount of SDR 73.3
million (US$90.0 million equivalent) was approved on June 23, 1981. Finance was also provided
by the Kuwait Fund and the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF). The credit
closing date was extended foir times, by one year each time, to December 31, 1991, and the credit
account was kept open until April 30, 1992, to accommodate final disbursements. The last
disbursement was made on May 12, 1992, raising the disbursed total to SDR 59.14 million
(US$68.48 million equivalent), or 81% of the original credit amount. The undisbursed balance of
SDR 14.16 million was cancelled. The Kuwait Fund and OECF agreed in 1991 to extend their loans
to December 31, 1993, and May 20, 1993, respectively, to help finance remaining project works-now
expected to be completed in 1994.
2.        Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program mission"lwhich visited Sri Lanka in October 1992, and reviewed by the Agricultural
Operations Division, Country Department HI, South Asia Region. Preparation was based on a
revievw of relevant project documentation, field visits, and discussions with the Borrower's project
staff and IDA staff associated with the project. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
'I  Messs J. H. Weatherhogg (agricultural economist) and A. Tabet (irrigation engineer).



ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr.1166CE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.        The third in a series designed to support the Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka (MASL) as
a comprehensive area development authority, the project was to increase agricultural production and
provide for new settlement through development of 18,500 ha of new irrigated area in Zones 3-6 of
System C, to provide improved water supply to 5,600 ha of new irrigated area developed with EEC
assistance in Zone 2, and provide additional water for 3,620 ha of exsting irrigated area.
2.        These objectives involved jungle clearing land levelling and on-farm development over a
gross area of about 31,000 ha; settlement of 18,500 families each with 1 ha of irrigated land and a 0.2
ha homestead plot, as well as 5,500 non-farming families (also with a homestead plot); and provision of
required irrigation, road and social infatructure. In addition, the project included proposals for
fuelwood (3,000 ha) and cashew (2,000 ha) plantations. Consistent with the Government's heavy reliance
on the public sector as the agent of development, MASL also provided support services such as
extension, performed commercial functions like input and output marketin& and operated and
maintained the irrigation system. Enviromental issues were largely subordinated to the task of building
the irrigation infrastructure.
Implementation Experience
3.        The project has been reasonably sucoessful in attaining its objectives of development of new
irrigated area and related settlement, albeit over a much longer implementation period than originally
expected. Total irrigated area developed by project completion is now estimated at around 17,700 ha,
or about 96% of the appraisal target of 18,500 ha. The number of farmer settlers shows a similar
development.
4.        Headworks, transbasin, main and branch canals were well constructed, and generally
completed with less delay than the more minor works-with the exception of main and branch canals,
which were completed about three years behind schedule. Land clearing and levelling, excavation of
distribution and field canals, and construction of structures proceeded much more slowly than expected
due to delays in contract award, poor performance of contractors, shortage of suitable construction
materials, and security problems. Initially, there was an attempt to speed up implementation by use of
precast structures. However, this method proved unsatisfactory due to difficulty in ensuring adequate
compaction around the structures and was abandoned in favor of in-situ construction.



iv
5.        Supervision and control were initially poor due to lack of experienced staff, use of small
contracts and inexperienced contractors, and imprecise tender specification, but were improved by
training programs and sharing of work betweei larger and smaller contractors on a block by block basis.
6.        Implementation of the roads and social infrastructure components has also been reasonably
satisfactory. Changes of project design during implementation included surfacing of market roads, which
has only been 39% achieved, and significantly smaller investment in schools and teacher hoLsing and
medical facilities, progress of which is 73% and 64%, respectively. Eight water supply schemes are only
50% complete.
7.        Development of the 3,000 ha of fuelwood and 2,000 ha of cashew plantations has not been
satisfactory. Only around 1,200 ha of fuelwood plantations have been successfully established, and
surviving cashew trees are estimated to number around 30,000, equivalent to 300 ha fully stocked. The
appraisal expectation that settlers would cultivate significant areas of field crops other than paddy in the
irrigated area has not been realized so far.
Results
8.        The project is expected to achieve its main objectives of developing an irrigated area of
around 17,700 ha, settlement of families, and provision of roads and necessary social infrastructure.
However, assuming project completion at the end of 1994, implementation, will have taken more than
twice as long as the six years originally planned, and the cost of Rs 8.45 billion (US$263.1 million) will
be about 133% (30% in US$ terms) higher than originally budgeted.
9.         Paddy yields are projected by the PCR mission to slightly exceed appraisal estimates and
to reach 5.2 tons per harvested hectare in the Maha season and 4.8 tons in the Yala season. However,
as the total irrigated area developed is expected to be about 96% of the appraisal target, total annual
paddy production is estimated at 145,000 tons compared with the SAR projection of 153,000 tons.
Cultivation of other field crops in the irrigated area in Yala has developed much more slowly than
expected at appraisal and is assumed to remain at around 1,000 ha in future, compared to an SAR
projection of around 2,600 ha.
10.       Re-estimation of financial benefits indicates that present income of farming settler families
is about double the estimated "without project" income. This is considerably lower than the five or six-
fold increase projected at appraisal. The main reasons for this result are lower p,-ddy prices, increased
cost of fertilizer following the abolition of subsidies, and higher than anticipated use of other inputs,
particularly labor.
11.       The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is re-estimated to be about 4%,
compared to 18% estimated at appraisal. The main causes of this disappointing result are lower actual
and projected paddy prices.
Sustainability
12.       To be sustainable in the present more stringent budgetary environment, MASL must
concentrate on Its essential basin management functions including provision of water for irrigation and
power generation, and environmental management. It will therefore have to transfer peripheral
functions to national line agencies or the private sector. Extension services, for example, should be
handed back to the streamlined national extension service. Commercial activities like seed farms and



v
dairy production units should be, privatized, while farmer organizations should take over the operation
and maintenance (O&M) of field and distributary channels. Without this last step in particular, the
irrigation system is likely to deteriorate, necessitating premature rehabilitation, since budgetary
allocations for O&M have been well below requirements.
13.       Other disappointing aspects with regard to the project's sustainability are the decline in loan
repayments and the number of farmers taking credit; the steady decline in collection of water charges;
lack of funds in the responsible departments for maintaining the buildings constructed by the project;
inability of the Mahaweli authorities to coitinue maintaining the road network constructed by the
project; lack of attention to promoting a sustainable pattern of development for upland areas, resulting
in encroachment of remaining forest areas and wildlife problems; and as yet only limited attempts to
integrate livestock into the farming systems.
Findings and Lessons Learned
14.       With the advantage of hindsight, the project illustrates the unsustainability of the
Accelerated Mahaweli Development Progra±n, of which it was the third and final phase. Recruitment
of some c. the "best and the brightest" from national line agencies and allocation of resources on a
priority basis were intended to speed up implementation, but in practice led to overoptimistic timetables
and shortening or omission of necessary planning studies, which ultimately delayed implementation. In
other parts of the country, the national extension service was forced by budgetarv pressures to streamline
its activities by employing fewer, better qualified staff, yet MASL carried on much as before with a large
number of low level, poorly qualified field assistants. The Authority's provision of other public services
such as public safety, education and health ultimately had to be handed back to the relevant line
ministries.
15.       MASL's involvement in commercial activities such as seed farms, rice milling, animal
husbandry and dairy production tended to crowd out the private sector on which the Government is
relying to develop higher value crops and livestock products. A self-sustaining development process did
not emerge as farmers continued to mainly grow low value rice. This is reflected in the project's very
low economic rate of return of 4%.
16.       The irrigation facilities constructed under the project face premature deterioration. Cost
recovery c - e- d in the late 1980s, while Government budgetary allocatior s for maintenance have gone
mainly for saaries, leaving little for preventive and periodic maintenance. As an alternative, farmer
organizations which could assume more of the responsibility for O&M need to be developed, as is being
done in other parts of the country.
17.       Institutional capacity to tackle environmental issues such as land and water degradation, and
human/wildlife conflicts, which went largely unaddressed during project implementation, needs to be
strengthened.



I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD MAHAWLi .'LANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1166-CE)
PART I
1. Project Identity
Project Name         Tlird Mahaweli Ganga Development Project
Credit No.           1166-CE
RVP Unit             South Asia Region
Countly              Sri Lanka
Sector           :  Agriculture
Subsectors      I:rigation
2. Backgrund
2.1       Sri Lanka's main agricultural development constraints are rural unemployment and low
productivity. During the 1970s, the average annual growth of agricultural production declined to
1.9% while the average population growth increased to 2%. Real per capita GDP declined by 13%
per year and open unemployment increased. The new Government elected in 1977 introduced policy
changes aimed at improving the rate of economic development. Thi included acceleration of the
Mahaweli Ganga Development Program-the countiys largest project, started in the late 1960s. The
Accelerated Mahaweli Development Programn (AMDP) initially included five major projects
comprising five dams and hydropower plants with a total capacity of 600 MW, and downstream
development of about 112,000 ha. In 1979, the program was reduced to four dam projects (installed
capacity about 500 MW) to be constructed with Swedish (Kotnale), U.K (Victoria), Canadian
(Maduru Oya), and German (Randenigala) financial assistance, and downstream development of
about 60,000 ha in System B and C, as well as completion of works in System H and construction of
the Minipe Anicut, the Right Bank Transbasin Canal, and the Ulhitiya Oya and Ratkinda reservoirs
(see Map 1).
2.2       The Bank played an active role in advising on the size and composition of the Mahaweli
Program and in coordinating external assistance. The subject of this PCR was the third project
assisted by the Bank Group under the Mahaweli program. Data on the first two are in Part III/1.
A further phase with the primary objective of improving parts of the physical infrastructure and



2
restructuring the Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka (MASL) and its dependent institutions is presently
und-r preparation. Irrigation development in System B (14,000 ha of new irrigated land) is being
imp' Imented with USAU) and Saudi Fund financing.
3. Project Objectlves and Description
3.1        The project objectives were consonant with those of AMDP, which aimed at creation ol
rural employment opportunities and increase of agricultural production.
3.2        As formulated at appraisal, the project was to:
(i)    provide irrigation facilities for 18,500 ha of new area (Zones 3 to 6 of System
C), improve water supply for 5,600 ha of new irrigation area developed with
EEC assistance (Zone 2), and provide additional water for 3,620 ha of existing
irrigated area;
(ii)   settle about 18,500 farming families on the irrigated area developed as well as
about 5,500 non-farming families; and
(iii)   develop cashew and fuelwood plantations.
3.3        The main components of the project, to be implemenited over six years, consisted of:
(i)    construction of the Minipe Right Bank Transbasin Canal, with a capacity of 63
mI/s, from Ikm 4.7 to its end (25.8 k1m), to convey water from the Mahaweli
Ganga to the Ulhitiya Oya/Ratkinda Reservoirs for release to the main canal
of System C and the Maduru Oya for System B;
(ii)    construction of main and branch canals (80 km), minor branch canals (50 km),
distributary and field canals (1,210 km), and primary, secondary and field drains
(815 km) within System C, Zones 3-6 I/ serving a net command area of 18,500
ha;
(iii)   jungle clearin& land levelling and on-farm development on a gross area of about
31,000 ha;
(iv)    construction of market, village and hamlet roads;
(v)    establishment of 2,000 ha of cashew and 3,000 ha of fuelwood plantations;
(vi)   construction of social infrastructure including village and town centers,
community development centers, schools, medical and public health facilities,
administrative service buildings, and agro-chemical, seed and food stores;
(vii)   assistance to settlers through provision of house grants, seeds and tools.
if  Representing about 82% of the pre-prjec ara of 29,00Q ha of forest, 2,000 ha o. gmnsdand, 6,500 ha of chena (slash and burn)
cul*wation, an4 100 ha of raifed padd.



3
3.4       In addition, for the whole of System C, the project included provision of (a) maintenance
eqdipment and workshops; (b) irrigation infrastructure and equipment for the Giranduru Kotte
training center and farm; (c) project monitoring s.nd evaluation; (d) enginee.ing, supervisiou and
management of project works; (e) a sound water management system; (f) assistai.ce to settlers
through farm machinery hire and agricultural support services; and (g) technical assistance and
training.
3.5       Total project cost was estimated at Rs 3,631.8 million (US$201.8 million equivalent).
Finance was to be provided by the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) - 11%, IDA - 45%, the Kuwait
Fund - 22% and Japan - 22%. The project was expected to be completed by December 1986 and the
credit closing date was December 31, 1987.
3.6       Under the Ministry of Mahaweli Development, MASL was responsible for coordinating
project implementation and management. Under MASL, the Mahaweli Development Board (MDB),
which subsequently became the Mahaweli Engineering and Construction Agency (MECA), was
responsible for design, supervision and control of all physical works. Also under MASL, the newly
created Mahaweli Economic Agency (MEA) was responsible for post-construction implementation
including settlement, operation and maintenance (O&M) of irrigation systems, on-farm development,
agricultural development and water management, community development, assistance in marketing,
agricultural and other advisory services, land allocation, and promotion of secondary industries.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1       The project was part of the Mahaweli Development Master Plan (1968). A feasibility
study for developing System C was subsequently prepared by consultants financed by a U.K (ODA)
grant (1980). Appraisal was based on this feasibility study. Project concept and scope wmere
appropriate and timely given the strong commitment of GOSL to the accelerated implementation of
the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program.
4.2       There was a strong desire to proceed with project implementation as quickly as possible.
A consortium of consultants '/was retained by GOSL to review final designs and tender documents
for the Transbasin Canal, and proceed with pre-construction investigations and final designs for
System C development.
4.3       Despite this assistance, design studies were not completed for all works at the start of
the project. Detailed surveys, geotechnical investigations and final designs had been completed for
the Transbasin canaL and the construction contract was awarded before credit approvaL Studies for
the main and branch canals were at a preliminary design stage, while designs for downstream
development were not yet started. This work was completed by consultants financed under the
project by the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan.
4.4       Design of the headworks was conceptually well done, whereas design of the irrigation
distribution and drainage systems had to be developea from sample areas representative of the
project area on the basis of experience in System H, with some improvements. Final layout and
preparation of detailed design and tender documents were carried out on a block-by-block basis by
MECA staff with the help of the project consultants and local consulting firms.
I/  See SAR, pr 3.38.



4
4.5       The program for surveys, investigations, designs, tenders and construction was too
optimistic, reflecting the spirit of the accelerated progravl. It did not reflect the complexity and
difficulties--already known at appraisal from the experience in System H-nor the limitations of the
implementing agencies at that time. Also, though the key project objective of using Mahaweli water
to develop irrigated areas tor settlers was well chosen and fully justified, the proposed project size
and phasing were over-optimistic. At appraisal, the proJect had a schedule for jungle clearing of 3.5
years, or around 8,300 ha p.a.; for on-farm development of 3.25 years, or 5,700 ha p.a.; and for
settlement of 3.5 years, or about 5,300 farm families p.a. Even if the project had not suffered from
the disruption caused by civil unrest, problems to be anticipated in staff recruitment and placement,
the long procedure in preparing and approving tender documents and awarding contracts, the
likelihood of some problems in jungle clearing and excavation, settler selection, and building up of
farmer support services would have indicated the need for a longer implementation period.
4.6       Project implementation arrangements and the responsibilities of the agencies concerned
were generally well defined and understood. However, some ambiguity remained in the division of
operational responsibilities between MDB/MECA and MEA, particularly in regard to jungle clearing
and downstream development. This resulted in some difficulties in coordination during the early
stages of the project.
4.7       The project included relatively minor components for establishment of 2,000 ha of
cashew and 3,000 ha of fuelwood plantations. However, the SAR provided little information on each
and was unspecific about implementation responsibility. Hence, cashew development could be either
by private entrepreneurs or the Sri Lanka Cashew Corporation (SLCC), and fuelwood planting either
by MEA or the Forestry Department. No indication was provided how the benefits of these
developments should be shared. Also, beyond stating that about 3,500 ha would be kept under forest
or reserved for communal grazing and livestock holding, and that such land would be patrolled to
prevent encroachment, the SAR made no suggestions for management and protection of remaining
forest areas, nor was any funding included for this purpose (see para 6.10).
5. Project Implementation
5.1       Credit Disbursement. Credit disbursements seriously lagged behind appraisal estimates
as project implementation was much slower than anticipated. In the event, the credit closing date
was extended four times, by one year each time, to December 31, 1991. The credit account was kept
open until April 30, 1992, to accommodate final disbursements. Total disbursements amounted to
SDR 59.14 million (US$68.48 million), or 81% of the credit. The undisbursed balance of SDR 14.16
million was cancelled effective May 12, 1992.
5.2       Project Cost. Although the IDA Credit closed, project implementation will continue
to the end of 1994 with support of the Kuwait Fund and OECF. The Kuwait Fund has increased its
financing to include the unfinished works originally to be financed by IDA (irrigation development,
water supply, buildings and roads). In October 1992, the project was still only about 90% complete.
The PCR mission estimates total project cost at completion in 1994 to be Rs 8,447 million (US$263.1
million). Ihis represents a cost overrun of 133% in Rupees, or 30% in US$ terms. At end
December 1991, actual expenditure was Rs 7,256 million, or about 86% of the estimated total cost.
5.3       Clvil Works. Implementation of the civil works program, including land clearing and
downstream development, was greatly delayed by long. bureaucratic procedures for awarding



S
contract-, poor performance of contractors, shortage of suitable construction materials, and security
problems in the project area. Costs are higher than estimated at appraisal (Part M/5A).
5.4       Iitially, project management had no clear concept of the kind of contracts to award for
small, medium or large-scale works, nor of the kind of works which could be carried out on a
worker/settler basis with supervision by MECA/MEA staff. Many approaches were tested, including
involvement of farmers, and letting smal, medium and large contracts. It was found that award of
large contracts covering a range of activities, such as construction of distributary and field (D and F)
canals, land clearing, rough levelling, and roads, to qualified contractors resulted in improved
performance and minimized delays. However, preparation of such large, complex contracts and
subsequent tendering was time-consuming (normally more than one year through contract award).
Another major difficulty was that little authority was given to field engineers, with the result that
contractors generally refused to take any instruction from them to change the design to better suit
the topography.
5.5       The quality of completed earth and concrete works for main and branch canals is
acceptable. However, the PCR mission noted considerable sedimentation and bank erosion in some
sections, principally due to bend erosion and surface inflows in areas where surface drains installed
to protect the canals were inadequate or not maintained, particularly on the right bank of the main
canal.
5.6       Design and quality of construction of D and F canals evolved during implementation.
Downstream development was initiated in Zone 3 using a worker/settl .r approach, with construction
by settlers under the supervision of MEA staff. Bad quality D and F canals and many defective
structures resulted. IDA recommended to carry out construction by contracts on a block-by-block
basis under the supervision of MECA staff. This made work easier to tender and supervise, and
facilitated settlement and on-farm development.
5.7       Supervision and control of construction of downstream works was a key aspect of project
implementation and one to which IDA supervision missions made important contributions. Initially,
quality defects resulted in many works being judged unacceptable, the principal reasons being: (i)
inexperienced construction inspectors who failed to enforce quality control and adherence to
specifications; (ii) award of small contracts to inexperienced contractors; and (iii)
inadequate specification in the tender documents of the construction method to be used.
5.8       Poor supervision is also reflected in inaccurate dimensions of field canal outlets, design
gradient and depth of field canals. The PCR mission found that dimensions of the turnout at the
head of the field canals differ from original designs 11. Downstream water levels at the turnouts
are in some cases too high to create ideal hydraulic conditions of 'complete overflow" on the crest
of the weirs and to ensure the design discharge. This may present problems in supplying water to
tail-end farms.
5.9       More attention could have been given to the design of D and F canals, especially the
accuracy of the topographical maps to determine the best canal alignments and location of structures.
Since adjustments to site characteristics were rarely done (see para. 5.4), the system shows many
1 Width of the tbroat of the weiW va1ing fim 29 cm to 39 cm although orginaly desgned to be 30 cm, with a discbhge of 1 useC
(28 I/sec).



6
defects and there are many complaints from farmers. Some of the necessary rectifications and
repairs have already been identified by IDA supervision missions, but a full rectification and repair
program will be required to bring the irrigation infrastructure to an acceptable condition.
5.10      To overcome the above problems, IDA recommended urgent training of field engineers
and inspectors and an increase in the size of construction contracts to attract larger, more competent
contractors. These steps resulted in some imnprovement, particularly in the production of precast field
canal structures and the construction method for earthworks. However, compaction around precast
D) and F canal structures often remained unsatisfactory. The PCR mission noted significant erosion
and leakage affecting several structures constructed in fill areas, which clearly required concrete
lining.
5.11      MECA used the 'platform method' for constructing D and F channels, by which the
channel was made in a previously compacted pad. The method proved effective, and made possible
the award of contracts for compacting the canal platform to medium size contractors owning
adequate equipment, and for excavation and construction in situ of structures to small contractors.
It had the disadvantage of requiring closer supervision in the field and more involvement in design
by MECA staff.
5.12      Overall, standards and rate of implementation were acceptable, given the project's
complexity and the security and other problems in the project area. Implementation could have been
improved, if (i) more time and attention had been given at the start to survey of geotechnical aspects
and timely production of topographical maps; (ii) technical specifications in tender documents had
included more detail on land clearing, rough levelling and on-farm development; and (iii) a flexible
approach had been adopted regarding contracting, matching work size and contractor capability, as
is now the practice. The project would also have benefitted from more careful review of final design
and bidding documents, better selection of contractors, and better supervision during construction.
5.13      Land Clearing and On-farm Development. The SAR set high standards for lan, learing
and on-farm development (OFD) but proved difficult to follow. Distinguishing in the tender
document between medium and light density forest clearing posed problems without any preliminary
survey--for which, with the very tight implementation schedule, no allowance had been made. The
specifications prepared by MECA for this work included only minimal rough levelling requirements.
Though this considerably reduced cost, the result was that land dearing and rough levelling were
inadequate for paddy cultivation, necessitating further earthmoving. In resporse to farmers'
complaints, MECA and MEA had to conduct surveys to determine where additional land levelling
was required and to contract for the additional work.
5.14      On-farm development comprised initial ploughing by MEA, followed by grading/levelling
and bunding of farm plots by farmers, for which MEA had to provide assistance. Considerable
additional assistance and guidance was required to accelerate this work, a principal constraint being
the shortage of suitable tractors (delay in importation). MEA used -ts own as well as hired tractors
and tried to provide assistance on a priority basis to enable settlers to complete farm development
and make productive use of their farms within the first two years of irrigation water issue. MEA also
provided continuous assistance in the proper location of farm bunds.
5.15      The frequently poor initial state of the farm plots slowed the pace of farm development.
Most settlers complained that: (i) jungle regrowth had occurred in the long period preceding
settlement; (ii) initial ploughing lagged behind settlement due to shortage of tractors; and (iii) water



.7
deliveries were unreliable. In October 1992, about 2,500 ha of developed irrigable area still awaited
initial ploughing.
5.16       Settlement. The SAR provided that farm families displaced within the project area
would receive priority in plot allotment. Other farmer settlers were expected meet the following
criteria established by GOSL:
not own more than 0.4 ha of agricultural land;
- -        have proven experience in agriculture, with priority given to participants in the Practical
Farm School Certificate course; and
-          have family labor available, either being married with children or as the breadwinner of
an extended family.
5.17       In the event, even these rather limited criteria were not strictly applied. About 38% of
settlers in System C were evacuees from upstream reservoirs, mainly from Kandy District. A further
13% were re-settlers from within the project area, many of whom were chena farmers. The balance,
or almost half the farmers in System C, were selected by Land Kachcheri (Government Agents) from
districts in other parts of Sri Lanka. Many of these apparently had little agricultural knowledge, and
surveys indicate that a fair proportion had other non-agricultural interests. This, together with the
continued ties with the area from which they came, is probably one of the reasons for illegal
mortgaging or leasing of land, which according to one survey '/has been done by 18% of the
settlers.' Settlers' lack of agricultural experience or tradition of chena cultivation is also given as
a reason by project staff for the poor farming performance of some families. By mid-1992, 16,136
farm families had been settled in Zones 3-6, and in 1993 the entire 17,195 (revised target"1) should
be settled. By September 1992, the number of non-farm families in Zones 3-6 (each of which has a
0.2 ha homestead plot but no irrigated area) reached 2,403, compared with a target of 4,045 families.
About half of these (1,225 families) were children of the original settlers. The number of non-farm
families in the area seems likely to rise rapidly in the future with further settlement by children of
existing settlers, and their situation, given the few employment possibilities and unreliable rainfed
agriculture on small houseplots, could become precarious.
5.18       Management was unable to maintain the settlement schedule outlined in the SAR-which
proposed the settlers' arrival six months before plots were supplied with irrigation water or twelve
months before the first harvest. In the event, due to the urgency of resettlement of evacuees and
the process of selection of settlers from other districts, many families were more than 18 months
without a harvest and in the worst cases as much as two years. The envisaged provision of food aid
by the World Food Program (WFP) was therefore vital to their existence. WFP had agreed to a
period of 12 months after arrival, but when the need arose it was extended. Settlers also received
handtools (crowbar, axe, bush knife and hoe), fruit tree and coconut plants, as well as Rs 375 for cash
costs in house construction, roof tiles, and grants of Rs 1,000 for well and Rs 405 for lavatory
construction. The latter represent only a fraction of present-day construction costs.
I/ See Annex 1.
2/  Another reason given by setlers is that leasing is the result of losing control of land due to indebtedness to moneylenders. ITe
prportion of forced and voluntary leasing is not known.
31 Appraisal estimate was 18,500 farn families.



S
5.19      Land allocation (both irrigated area and house plots) has kept pace with settlement.
Settlers are supposed to receive a permit which wil later be converted to a title deed. However, by
September 1992, only about 60% of the permits for homesteads had been prepared and about 47%
issued. Of the permits for paddy land only about half had been prepared and a third issued. The
SAR envisaged that transfer of land rights to settlers would be accompanied by payment of the land
development costs. However, as yet there is no timetable for issuing of land titles, nor any clear
decision as to what proportion of land development costs will be charged.
5.20      Cashew and Fuelwood Plantaions. Neither of these components has performed
satisfactorily. In 1983, MASL requested the Sri Lanka Cashew Corporation (SLCC) to plant 2,000
ha of cashew trees in the Veheragla upland area of Zone 6, paid for by MEA. This was a departure
from the SAR which expected establishment and maintenance costs to be born by the planters (SLCC
or private entrepreneurs). It was intended by MEA that 400 ha of the area so developed would be
alocated to SLCC, and 1,600 ha divided up between settlers (3 ha per family, including homestead).
Over the period 1984-87, SLCC planted the whole area at a density of around 100 trees per ha, or
197,510 in total. However, a survey in mid-1990 showed that despite expenditure of around Rs 44
million only about 67,000 plants survived. A subsequent, more detailed survey in October 1990
counted only 30,000 plants. This very poor result has been blamed on presence of low-lying marshy
basins and rocky, thin soils; fire damage helped by infestation with ilhak (Imperata cylndrlca);
damage from wildlife; lack of fencing and consequent damage by trespassers; insect damage;
difficulties in procuring labor; and remoteness of the site.
5.21      As a result, MASL decided, with the agreement of IDA, to take over the area from
SLCC in January 1991. Settlement, which was to start in 1988, only commenced at the end of 1990.
Up to mid-1992, some 378 families had been settled. 400 ha have been retained to form a nucleus
estate, of which 240 ha are already under development by a private company.
5.22      MEA continues to encourage settlers to plant cashew through provision of plants and
maintenance allowances, and has involved PMHE/ to develop and help implement future strategies.
These are still under discussion but, inter a, will probably include: much greater diversification of
cropping, development of low lying areas for rainfed Maha paddy and chillies and vegetables irrigated
from wells in Yala; introduction and integration of livestock enterprises; soil conservation measures;
and attracting foreign aid for investment in wells.
5.23      Fuelwood plantation by MEA has also been disappointing. The 1991 supervision mission
estimated that about 700 ha remained of the 890 ha planted by 1990/91 Maha, after allowance for
losses due to fire. As a result of subsequent planting and partial recovery of fire-damaged
plantations, the area planted is currently estimated at around 1,200 ha, or about 60%o of the appraisal
target of 2,000 ha.
5.24      Sodal Infrastrcture. Construction of infrastructure of all types has generally progressed
satisfactorily, with some exceptions. These were:
/  PMHE (Promoting Multifunctional Houshlud Envronments) Proet, a development co-operston between MASL and the
Nethedands (ETC Foundation).



9
Plans to surface 120 km of market roads introduced during implementation have not
been realised. At present, only about 46 kmi, or 39% of the target,'I have been
surfaced, partly due to implementation delays but also in order to contain costs.
Completion of schools and health facilities is less than planned, at 73% and 64% of
revised targets,'/ respectively-which were already well below the appraisal targets.
Major difficulties were encountered in completion of water supply schemes. Eight such
schemes were planned, of which none is completed, and overall progress is only about
50%.11 The main reasons have bee.a poor contractor performance and contractual
disagreements.
5.25      TrahIng. The Giranduru Kotte Training Center and Demonstration Farm has
developed well. The excellent buildings of the Center were provided by EEC, with equipment for the
Center and the Farm provided by the project. The Center has an expanding training program and
in 1990 and 1991 arranged 63 courses each, with 3,306 participants and 19,248 trainee days. Figures
for 1992 up to end-August were 58 courses, 2,652 participants and 18,245 trainee days. The main
problem of the Center at present appears to be lack of budget for building maintenance, which needs
to be resolved.
5.26      IDA financed overseas training for 27 engineers in planning, design and construction.
OECF also fnanced overseas training for 59 staff in a variety of subjects--project design, construction
supervision, project management, settlement, agriculture, marketing and water management--as well
as a study tour for 25 farmers and field staff to Thailand.
5.27      As part of the Model Unit Program, the project consultants from mid-1990 through May
1992 provided training in water management (190 project staff and 580 farmer leaders), contract
management (38 project staff), scheduling of water issues (36 project staff), and canal maintenance
(210 farmer leaders).
5.28      In addition to the above, MEA field staff carty out regular fortnightly training of Field
Assistants in agricultural husbandry under the Training and Visit extension system.
6. Project Results
6.1       Overall, the project is expected to achieve its main objectives of developing an irrigated
area of around 17,700 ha, settlement of families, and provision of roads and necessary social
infrastructure. However, assuming project completion in 1994, implementation will have taken more
than twice as long as originally planned.
6.2       A      l    Production.  Given the actual rate of implementation, agricultural
production increases due to the project have been reasonably satisfactory. The SAR projected a total
irrigable area in Zones 3-6 of 18,500 ha. In the event, the total area developed will be slightly less
(para 6.1). With security of water supply in the Yala season, a cropping intensity in the irrigated area
of around 200% is likely to be achieved.
V See Part IJ1/4A.



10
6.3        Paddy yields, reported by the office of the Resident Project Manager (RPM) for System
C, based on crop cutting tests by the Department of Census and Statistics, were 4.7 tons per
harvested ha in Maha 1990/91 and 4.5 tons in Yala 1991, giving an annual production of around
100,000 tons.11 Based on these figures, the PCR mission estimates yields at full development (1999)
at 5.2 tons per harvested hectare in Maha and 4.8 tons in Yala, for a total production of 145,000 tons.
This compares with full development paddy production (for Zones 3-6) of 153,000 tons estimated in
the SAR. Without project production is assumed to be 12,200 tons of paddy and 18,480 tons of cow
peas/other crops, as projected in the SAR.
6.4        Growing of other field crops (OFC) in the irrigated area in Yala has developed more
slowly than estimated at appraisal, which is a major cause for concern. Reasons cited both by
supervision missions and project staff include marketing difficulties, disease, inadequate information
on cultivation techniques, and lack of credit. Another factor which appears important is that many
farmers take credit to purchase inputs which they repay in paddy to the suppliers who are also paddy
dealers. In contrast to the low uptake of OFC in the irrigated area, there is extensive OFC growing
in the homestead areas during Maha.
6.5        MEA has supported a program for supply of draft animals and dairy cows to settlers.
Starting in 1981 with distribution of draft animals, from 1984 dairy cows were also supplied. As a
result, around 850 dairy cows are now kept by settler families, and 22 milk producer societies have
been established. A milk processing plant producing yoghurt, flavored milk, and curd established by
MEA has a current daily intake of 2,000 liters.
6.6        As discussed above (paras 5.21-5.24), the cashew and fuelwood components have not
been a success. For both, full development production will be significantly below appraisal
expectations. The PCR mission projects cashew production (from 2000) at around 240 tons of nuts
(in-shell) per year. The SAR projection was 1,750 tons per year (from 1995). In the case of
fuelwood production, the PCR projection is 36,000 n3 (20,000 tons) annually (from 2000), whereas
the SAR projected 53,000 m3 (29,400 tons) annually (from 1993). Production of perennial crops,
particularly pepper, cmcoa, and coffee mentioned in the SAR, has not occurred to any significant
extent.
6.7        Project Benefits. The project has increased paddy production and farm incomes, albeit
in a less dramatic way than estimated at appraisal (Annex 1). Re-estimation of settlers' financial
benefits indicates that incomes are probably about double "without project levels, compared with a
five or six-fold increase projected at appraisal, largely because of lower paddy prices and increased
cost of inputs, particularly fertilizer2. Re-estimates of employment generation by the project are
in fact higher than those made at appraisaL
6.8        Economic Impact. The economic re-evaluation of the project is given in Annex 1. The
results are disappointing. The recalculated economic rate of return (ERR), in constant 1991 prices,
is 4%, compared with 18% estimated at appraisaL Part of this difference results from the slower than
anticipated dtvelopment of benefits and the higher than expected costs, but the predominant factor
Unfortunately, there is an unresolved difference in the information on yields between the government estimates based on crop cutting
and the data colected by farmer intemiew reported in the Bench Mark Survey, and supported by follow-up surveys, which show yields
to be around 15-20% lower, ie., 0.7 ton/ha lower in Maha 1989/90 and 0.9 ton/ha lower in Yala 1990.
21  The fertilizer subsidy of SO% was terminated in January 1990.



11
is paddy price assumptions- if the ERR is recalculated using the paddy and fertilizer prices forecast
at appraisal, the result is 17%.
6.9       Sensitivity analysis shows that an increase in benefits of 20% would raise the ERR to
about 7%. This case could be adopted as representing the upper limit of the project's likely
performance. Since capital expenditures have already been made and output prices are at low levels,
at first glance a reduction in the ERR below the base case does not seem very likely. However, if
the irrigation infrastructure is not adequately maintained, there could be a need for heavy
expenditure on rehabilitation during the 50-year project life assumed in the analysis (same as in
SAR). An increase of 20% in costs would decrease the ERR from 4% to less than 1%.
6.10      Environmental Impact. The SAR recognized that the project was bound to cause some
environmental problems, particularly in regard to wildlife as a result of jungle clearing. Such clearing
was likely to occur as a result of increasing population and expansion of chena cultivation, but the
project clearly accelerated the rate of deforestation. GOSL had already arranged with USAID to
engage consultants to review the environmental impact of the Accelerated Mahaweli Program and
prepare recommendations to mitigate the negative effects. Subsequently GOSL, assisted by USAID,
commenced a US$6 million action program for wildlife and ecology management and protection.
However, it is clear that mitigation measures can have only a partial impact in a situation where
20,600 ha of land are cleared or, effectively, wildlife habitat is destroyed. IDA sensibly supported the
expansion of the Wasgomuwa Strict Nature Reserve and the creation of the Madura Oya National
Park. Earlier project designs had apparently included corridors to enable wildlife to move across the
scheme, but the impracticability of the approach led to its deletion.
6.11      Elephants are a major problem in the northern part of the Scheme, destroying crops and
even settlers' houses. The settlers retaliate by starting grass fires to frighten the elephants back into
the forest, with consequent damage to forest areas. So far, the only solution developed by project
staff is electric fencing. Ten kilometers of such fencing are being erected and a further 75 km are
requested.
6.12      One step which could have helped might have been to confine the project to
development of Zones 3-5 and leave Zone 6 for a later phase. This would have kept a part of the
elephants' habitat and provided a connection between the Madura Oya Park and areas to the north.
Apart from the latter possibility, it is difficult to conceive of any action that might have been or could
be taken to improve a difficult and unsatisfactory situation, but one which undoubtedly places a
higher value on human than on animal survivaL Perhaps control of both human and wildlife
populations so as to achieve some acceptable balance is the only long-term solution.
6.13      Increased population pressure as a result of settlement of non-farming families and the
children of original settler families is leading to encroachment of any remaining forest areas for chena
cultivation or for fuelwood. Much greater attention is required to management and protection of
remaining forest within the project area.
7. Project Sustainabillty
7.1       It could be argued that in some respects the present agricultural situation in Zones 3-6
is more sustainable than if some of the SAR proposals had been strictly implemented. At appraisal,
it was expected that farmers would use 450 kg of fertilizer per paddy crop and that 50% of the area
would be transplanted. The proposals for planting of cocoa and coffee were not adopted, and only



12
a portion of the cashew component was implemented. On the other hand, nothing was included in
the original plan for development and integration of livestock into the fanming system. Measures
taken by MEA to promote livestock and the involvement of an agency' to desigrn a more diversified
strategy for development of the cashew area, as wel as further development of enterprises on the
homestead are therefore very welcome.
7.2       The rate of development in the project area to date appears to have been determined
at least as much by factors outside the control of project staff as those within their corapetence. Civil
strife, credit problems, poor availability of suitable paddy varieties, and lack of area specific fertilizer
recommendations are all national concerns. Theb same situation is likely to continue in the future.
Farmer organisations charged with maintenance responsibilities for D and F canals can only succeed
if they are supported by reasonable sanctions on non-cooperators.
7.3       Further improvement from the present situation seems to depend on farmers being
encouraged to take on greater responsibility for their own affairs and, conversely, having a greater
voice in system management. However, commonly, farmers in most areas, and particularly in areas
recently settled such as System C, are overly dependent on government initiatives and services.
7.4       The period immediately after completion will be crucial for the long-term sustainability
of the project and is likely to call for greater MEA support than during the construction phase to:
(i)    establish an effective water management system to ensure irrigation water is
used efficiently by the farmers and at the project level;
(ii)   achieve the full involvement of fanners in the management and O&M of their
schemes;
(iii)   address the present unsatisfactory O&M organization at the project level;
(iv)   regularize the land tenure situation by issuing land titles to settlers;
(v)    take action to protect and optimize utilization of the natural resources in the
whole area;
(vi)   find ways of mitigating the problem of second generation settlers; and
(vii)  turn over market roads and social infrastructure (schools, hospitals) to the
responsible line ministries.
7.5       Water Management. The SAR identified satisfactory water management as a key
element for the project's success and, conversely, a risk for the project if it was not given proper
emphasis.
7.6       A Water Management Panel was set up under the Director General, MASL to allocate
water of the Mahaweli Ganga for irrigation, power, and other uses, and to apportion irrigation water
among the various Mahaweli projects.
1/  PMHB, para. .22



13
7.7       Initially, water use in System C was much higher than the amount given in the seasonal
operation plan prepared by the Water Management Secretariat (WMS). The SAR -estimate was
about 500 MCM for an area of 24,100 ha, while total diversion in 1989 was 673 MCM for an area
of about 15,000 ha. This was explained by:
(i)   the high water demand of the new, inexperienced farmers;
(ii)   the poor operation of the irrigation facilities by inadequately involved farmers,
and MEA Officers; and
(iii)   continuous irigation during the land preparation period.
Since 1989, the Flow Monitoring Unit (FMU) of the RPM's Office, in collaboration with the project
consultants, has prepared a water management program aimned at reducing water wastage. Monthly
records of water duties of the various blocks indicate that since the start of rotational water use less
wastage has occurred.
7.8       As a result of this work, which provides a good evaluation of water consumption and
wastage, the following recommendations have been developed:
(i)   the diversion requirement in the seasonal operation plan (SOP) should be
estimated on the basis of actual cultivation progress and pattern;
(ii)   the land preparation schedule should be worked out properly within a turnout
and the period should be shortened by executing preliminary work in a lot;
(iii)  impartial water distibution should be achieved within the project by fixing
locking device to the turnout gates, regulators and sluices; and
(iv)   all submerged and damaged weirs should be rectified to obtain accurate flow.
7.9       MEA has also, with assistance of the project consultants, initiated a Model Unit Program
(MUP) to introduce a participative management approach to farmers. At the moment, a total of 11
representative Units have been selected, covering over 10% of the project area. MUP includes
rectification of irrigation defects, water management, organization of farmers, and crop
diversification. Other activities were surveys and data collection, as well as training of MEA staff and
farmer leaders. Water management and MUP will need to be further strengthening and support by
MASL if their objectives are to be attained.
7.10      Cost Recovery and Land Trasfer. In the SAR, cost recovery for land improvements
was to be accomplished by sale of the farm and house plots given to each settler, at the cost of
development, and settlers would receive clear title to the land. However, until now no payments have
been made by the settlers, and land ownership rests with GOSL Water charges initially were
collected at the rate of Rs 100/ac (Rs 250/ha), or 50% of estimated O&M cost. MASL intended to
increase the base rate, charged in the first year of irrigation, by yearly increments of Rs 20/ac until
the estimated full O&M cost (Rs 200/ac, or Rs 500/ha) was reached after five years. However, in
practice, payment of water charges in System C has deteriorated from over 90% of amounts due in
1985 and 1986, to 38% in 1988, 25% in 1989, and 5% in 1990.



14
7.11      With regard to land transfer, settlers received permits and GOSL's agreed intention was
that they would eventually be granted title to the land after paying back the cost of land development
(see para 5.20). To date, no decision has been taken on the degree of cost recovery, and no
timetable agreed for issuance of land titles.
7.12      It is clearly fundamental for the future success of the scheme that farmers should be
keen to improve their livelihood and the state of their farms. Survey evidence of leasing of a
minority of the land is therefore of concern--particularly if this is a symptom of absentee landlordship.
MEA has proposed a survey to ascertain the position, which should be conducted so that appropriate
measures can be taken in the award of land titles.
7.13      Farmer Organizations. A good start has been made with the establishment of farmer
organizations in the Model Units, mainly for water management and D and F channel O&M, but also
for credit, input supply, marketing and other activities. Much work is still to be done to fully involve
settlers in the management and maintenance of their irrigation systt;ms.
7.14      Government has already accepted broad guidelines to enhance farmer organizations
including:
-         introduction of a policy of participatory management;
-         farmers to be encouraged to manage O&M of tertiary systems;
-         Government to continue to finance maintenance and management of the main system;
-         a legal framework to be provided to recognize rights and obligations of farmer
organizations through amendments of existing legislation (Irrigation Ordinance and
Agrarian Services Act); and
-         legislation to be enacted to transfer, over a period of time, ownership of the irrigation
network below the main canal to farmer organizations, when they are founid to be ready
to take on that responsibility.
7.15      Still further definition is required on government policy and intentions regarding
responsibility of farmer organisations for maintenance of D and F channels and the level of their
participation (water charges/fees) in the management and maintenance of head works. Unless this
provision is made, there will continue to be a premium for farmers to neglect D and F channel
maintenance and to refuse paying water charges--farmers are reluctant to take on what they perceive
to be a government responsibility.
7.16      Upland Development. Future sustainability of the project in regard to development of
upland areas does not look promising. Pro,ect design made virtually no attempt to integrate upland
and irrigated farming or land ownership. Nor were there any proposals for management of forest
areas or wildlife protection or management. As a result, upland development in the project area is
already taking place in a somewhat haphazard manner and appears unlikely to improve as the
number of non-farmer settlers increases. Some forest areas are being encroached as a consequence
and, partly due to the poor performance of the fuelwood plantation component, fuelwood is oecoming
scarce in some areas.



Is
7.17      Operation and Maintenance. The O&M budget for irrigation is only aedequate to cover
particularly urgent repairs. No Funds or machinery are available to handle routine dcsilting of canals.
Th.e opportunity exists for involving farmer organisations in this work each year, using the labor
campaign or Shramadana approach. To susiain the irrigation system, financial management must
improve so that adequate funding for O&M is assured.
7.18      The 1991 O&M budget for Zones 2-6 was only Rs 6.8 million, whereas an amount of Rs
24.0 million was needed to provide the level of O&M required. Less maintenance will engender
premature deterioration of the system as has already happened in Zone 2, which now requires
rehabilitation.
7.19      Prior to handing over O&M of the D and F canals to farmer organizations, the -facilities
have to be put into full working order by MEA, on the basis of a check-up survey. Such a survey has
already started as part of MUP. Many types of defects need to be rectified, but some action has
already been taken, for example, the signing of a contract to make precast concrete flume for lining
field canals whiere seepage occurs.
7.20      Maintenance of buildings and other facilities continues to be a burden for MEA, even
when the facilities have been handed over to the appropriate authority. In most cases, the authority
responsible claims that it does not have sufficient funds for the purpose and MEA must undertake
maintenance.
7.21      MASL  More generally, to be sustainable in the present more stringent budgetary
environment, MASL must concentrate on its essential water management functions. These include
O&M of the headworks, regulation and provision of water for the various irrigation systems,
townships and industry, as well as for power generation. They also include protecting land and water
resources in the Mahaweli basin from degradation. This implies that MASL will have to transfer
peripheral functions to nationial line agencies or the private sector. For example, the Department
of Agriculture should assume responsibility for crop extension, and the Department of Animal Health
for livestock extension. Commercial activities such as seed farms, rice mills, and dairy and livestock
production units should be privatized. On the other hand, environmental monitoring and intervention
capacity should be strengthened. An action program, ineluding mitigating measures such as staff
redeployment, retraining, and early retirement now needs to be prepared to implement these changes.
8. Bank Performance
8.1       Bank supervision was thoughtful and generally effective. Staff continuity had a positive
impact on project implementation. Initially, supervision missions w^cre~ scheduled at eight-month
intervals, but the actual interval was sometimes as long as a year (Part III/8B, supervision 3, 4, 11).
Part of the benefit of the missions in helping maintain the project's momentum was therefore lost.
8.2       The main lessons of experience that may be relevant to the Bank are:
-         Design studies and tender documents for headworks, and preliminary studies for
downstream development works should be completed at the time of credit effectiveness.
-         A project launch workshop should be organized, so that operational responsibilities are
clearly defined and understood by implementing agencies.



16
There is need for proper delegation of authority to field engineers to cut down delays
in implementation.
In spite of supervision mission efforts, the Bank could not convince the Borrower to
increase the cost recovery rate (largely as a result of the security situation) and set up
fanner organizations.
More consideration should have been given to the ability of the project organization to
implement all the activities envisaged.
Supervsion needs to pay adequate attention to institutional aspects of the project.
Allocations for O&M during the implementation period and thereafter should be well
defined in the project budget, and expenditures monitored in the same way as for
construction.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1       MASL and its specialized agencies-MDB/MECA and MEA--closely monitored work
progress and tried to resolve construction and settlement problems and management difficulties. But
inadequate supervision of contracts at the field level resulted in construction deficiencier' -upervision
and control staff were poorly trained at the beginning of the project. Also, ie role and
responsibilities of the two agencies were not clearly defined and understood, particularly for activities
such as jungle clearing and land levelling.
9.2       Throughout implementation, the Botrower endeavored to follow the principles set out
in the SAR, except in the case of on-farm development. Supervision missions' suggestions were
acted upon when possible, although often with considerable delay.
9.3       One serious deficiency in the Borrower's performance during implementation was the
long delay in deciding on the type of agricultural development to be adopted for Blocks 409 and 410
(4,500 ha), which sigrificantly slowed project progress.
9.4       Lessons of experience for the Borrower are:
-         Major design work and sunreys should be complete before credit effectiveness.
-         Procedures for tendering and awarding of contracts should be reviewed.
Sharing of construction works between smal, medium and large contracts should be
decided on the basis of the type of works and the capabilities of contractors.
There is need for continuous effort in collection of water charges.
10. Project Relationship
10.1      The relationship between the Borrower and the three co-fimancing agencies was generally
satisfactory. Indeed, the Accelerated Mahaweli Program appears to have been an idea to which all
parties responded. But this strong motivation and good relationship may have led to uncritical



17
acceptance of each others proposals or actions. Thus, for example, GOSL accepted proposals for
cashew monocropping as a vehicle for settlement, and the Bank accepted proceeding with jungle
clearing and main canal construction before the necessary surveys for the secondary and tertiary
canals-were completed. Both parties were to a degree bound by the urgency of rapid implementation.
However, while many of the project's problems originated from this haste to develop, it could well
be that a slower, more methodical approach would have sacrificed the strong staff motivation created
by the challenge initially presented. The good project relationship was particularly helpful in
maintaining activities through the periods of civil unrest, and in agreeing the four extensions of the
credit closing date.
11. Consulting Services
11.1      The projct consultants have performed satisfactorily. Continuity of staff has been
excellent and services were maintained in often difficult, and sometimes dangerous, conditions. The
relationship between project staff and the consultants appears to have been particularly constructive.
The consultants' regular survey work on the BMS has been helpful to project management, and the
MUP and its future expansion should provide the basis for further agricultural development.
11.2      As at December 1991, consultants' input amounted to 748 staff-months, or more than
twice the 324 staff-months projected at appraisal, largely due to the longer implementation period.
Of the total, 70% were devoted to construction operations and 17% to water management.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1      The SAR and Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were generally sufficient to
provide a basic framework for IDA, the Borrower and the project implementing agencies. However,
the much slower than anticipated implementation as a result of security and other problems reduced
the usefulness of the SAR's physical and financial targets. The provisions of the DCA were generally
observed.
12.2      Monitoring of project progress and particularly the regular survey of the area undertaken
by the consultants, supplemented by other surveys, provided a good basis for this PCR, despite some
ambiguities in the SAR.
12.3      The presence of two agencies, MDB/MECA and MEA, three principal donors, plus
assistance from WFP, EEC, JICA and other bilaterals, and the division of System C into Zone 2 and
Zones 3-6 created some difficulties for project accounting. However, in general, acco,nting was in
conformity with the provisions of the DCA, and audited accounts were made available to the Bank
on time.



18
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELPMENT PROECT III - CR. 1166-CE
COMPLETION RERT PART II
1.0 GENERAL COMMENTS
MASL is in general agreement with most of the observations and comments made in the
POject Completion Report. Shonfalls and delays enumerated therein were mostly due to
circumstances beyond the control of the Implementing Agencies. General inflation, and
unsettled conditions in the country for a long period of time, policy changes of the Government
in removal of subsidies with respect to purchase of egricultural machinery, implements, input
supplies, etc. for the farmers have contributed to this .ituation. The fact that this project was
part of the Accelerated Mahaweli Programme and the reasons for taking this up for
implementation while all the Feasibility Studies under the accelerated programme was not
complete, should also be taken into account in making the final analysis. More detail comments
and observations on parts I and III of the Project Completion submitted by the Bank are given
below:
In the task of presenting the Project Completion Report of M;ahaweli Ganga Development
Project III which refers to Zones 3 to 6 of System C, it is advisable to treat System C in its
entirety, namely, Zones I to 6. Zone 2 development undertaken with EEC assistance has
incurred similar costs and benefits as the planning criteria were the same. More importantly,
the parameters are of general and mutual benefit when economics of conglomeration are
considered. The benefits to Zone I - the older scheme will also have to be acknowledged in
relation to irrigation water augmentation and the construction of the highway linking
Mahiyangana, through System C with Polonnaruwa and Batticaloa. No direct costs were
incurred however. But the increase in cultivation is a known factor. The cropping intensity on
2,110 ha. increased by 0.75 providing an "additional extent" of 1,580 ha. (CIE/MEA)
2.0 PCR ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
In the PCR economic analysis certain costs may refer to the entire project, Zone 2 and
3 - 6, although benefits were ascertained only in respec. of Zones 3 - 6. Furthermore, costs
of cashew cultivation and fuetwood, to name a few, were not provided for in the SAR but
accounted for in the PCR and compared with the former.



19
The data and computations provided on the economic cash flow and economic rate of
return in Annex 1, Table 9, of the PCR, appear incomplete and incorrect. For example, (a) the
added-up total benefits are incorrect; (b) the benefits of paddy from 1995 have not been
provided; and, (c) some of the given benefits of paddy prior to 1995 appear lower than paddy
production cost.
3.0 REVISED ESTIMATE OF THE ERR
In view computational shortcomings in the ERR derived in Part III of the PCR, as
outlined in section 2.0, a revised presentation of the ERR analysis was done by the borrower.
In this revised analysis the recomputations discussed in the earlier section and the following
items have been incorporated.
In the calculation of ERR (PCR) the past and future benefits and costs were valued to a base
year (1991). However, since the investment cost of Mahaweli System C is a "sunk cost" the
past benefits and costs should be valued at the economic prices which prevailed during each year
(at historical values), and only the future benefits and costs should be estimated at a base year
(1991) economic values.
Accordingly, the ERR (revised version ) was recalculated, using historic economic values of
costs and benefits of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Project III. The costs and benefits from
1982 to 1991 were valued at the prices which were prevalent during each year. In the analysis
the costs and benefits from 1992 to 2031 were adjusted to a base year (1991) value.
3.1 Import parit price of gaddy
Table 3 of the PCR, lt% ject III (6 January, 1993) has, with no reasons adduced, devalued
the Sri Lanka grown rice by 20% by discounting the average quality/price of the rice in the
international market.  This is another unacceptable dictum given instances of regional
preferences within Sri Lanka for indigenous rice over imported varieties, and rejection of rice
consignments by state food importing agencies for not meeting national rice quality standards.
The options for Sri Lanka in the foreseeable future are in rice imports at the margin.
Accordingly the opportunity cost is considered to be the import price and not the export
price. Consequently, the revision removes the 20% (0.8) discount on the World Average Rice
Price of rice.



20
The Table I presents in detail the mode of computation of farm gate prices of paddy during each
year. The prices which prevailed until 1991 were determined upon the actual values of imports
as reported by the Central Bank. The CIF prices of rice from 1992 onwards were based on those
provided in the PCR but without a quality discount. These farm gate prices assume that Sri
Lanka will not produce for export, but rather will continue to be a net importer at the margin.
Although the local supply may exceed the demand from time to time such excesses will be
absorbed by inventory adjustments.
Pon charges (Rs 250/-), cost of transport to the wholesale point (Rs 4001-), and cost of transport
from the wholesale point to the farm gate (Rs 250/-) were added to the CIF value to produce
farmgate prices for imported rice for the entire period of the project. However, processing costs
were ommitted since those costs are already captured in the CIF price of milled rice.
Accordingly, the value of paddy production for Zone 3 to 6 is calculated and presented in Table
2.
3.2 Increased output benefit in Zone I
A further necessity to revise the ERR presented in the Project III of the PCR arises from
the reality of the increased paddy output benefit in System C, Zoner 1, which has not been taken
into account in the PCR and SAR. The Mahaweli Trans-basin Canal was completed in July,
1984 and water was released to the older Zone 1 without additional water to the Project.
As a direct result, the cropping intensity in Zone 1 increased by 0.75 benefitting 84/85
Maha and thereafter (CIEIMEA reporting to the Water Charges Recovery Committee, July, 1991
and other papers). An additional extent equivalent to 1,580 ha. is now being cultivated in zone
I as a result of the Project III developments.
The average yields of the 1,580 ha is synchronous with the major irrigation average
yields in the Badulla district which encompasses a portion of the System C area. Consequently
the average yield in Zone 1, System C from 84/85 Maha to 91/92 Maha was considered to equal
the Badulla district major irrigation schemes average yields. From 1992 Yala to the end of the
project, the average yield is assumed as 4 mt/ha and out of the increased extent of 1,580 ha
75% (1,185 ha) in Yala and 25% (395 ha) in Maha is assumed to be cultivated. Accordingly.
the increased paddy production and value of the production for Zone 1 is calculated and
presented in Table 1.



21
3.3 Calculation of cost of fertilizer
The prices of "N", 'P" and "K" fertilizers were recalculated using the prevailing prices of Urea.
TSP and MOP for the period upto 1991. The Fertilizer Secretariat Annual Reports were used
as the source of data for the prices of above mentioned fertilizers. The results are presented in
Table 3.
3.4 Cost of production of Daddy
The paddy farmgate prices and fertilizer prices described in above 3.1 and 3.3 sections were
used in the calculation of the cost of production of paddy. Other cost values used in the
recalculation are the same as those given in the PCR. The results are presented in Table 4.
3.5 Capital costs and recumnt costs
The costs (capital and recurrent) before 1991 used in the analysis were the prevailed values
of each year. The costs from 1991 to 1994 were adjusted to 1991 values.
A deduction of 3% QGOSL taxes, a 50% RBTC cost allocation to System C, and other
assumptions of allocating portions of costs of certain items, as well as the coefficients adopted
by the PCR were applied in the revised ERR calculations.
The labour cost share in all capital cost items used in the current analysis was 0.25 while a 0.3
labour cost share was considered in the cost of "social and administrative infrastructure and
settlement' . The consequent total labour cost was considered under the 'local cost".
The same estimated percentages as given in the Table 14 of the Annex I of the SAR as its
foreign exchange shares were considered in the current analysis.



22
Items
I) RBTC                                               60%
2) Main & branch canals                                60%
3) Irrigation and drainage development                 50%
4) Social and administration infrastructure            30%
5) Vehicles and equipment                              95%
6) Roads                                               45%
7) Technical assistance and monitoring                 88%
3.6 Other benefits and costs
The benefits and costs of other field crops, fuelwood, cashew, homestead production, dairying
and the net benefits forgone for the years before 1991 were adjusted to the prevailed values
using the inflator values as given in the PCR. The values adopted in the analysis for these items
for the years of 1991 and beyond were the same as those provided by the PCR.
3.7 Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
T-he recalculated ERR using the values discussed above is 14.28% and this represents a 10.28%
increment over the PCR calculation. If benefits are increased by 20% the ERR would increase
to 17.75%. An increase of 20% in costs would reduce the ERR to 11.05%. The results are
shown in Table 6.
In conclusion it is noted at in determining the positive impacts from the project in terms
of general welfare, nuy variables of which are not readily quantifiable, definitely outweigh the
totality of possible negative impacts arising from implementation shortcomings. This aspect
should not be lost sight of in project completion reportings.



23
4.0 FARM &WiEhT
In the Annex I of the PCR the farm budget is discussed in detail comparing the values
of Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and Bench Mark Survey (BMS) (Nippon Koei). Nevertheless.
some important facts have been overlooked. Certain values adopted appear questionable. For
example,
1)    The labour cost of paddy provided under the BNiS column of Table E. Annex I in the
PCR is questionable. The total number of labour units considered in this is 109. 1. In the
Annex 1, Table 1, this total (109.1 days) consists of 63.8 man-days of hired labour and 45.3
man-days of "attham" labour (exchange labour). But under the SAR only the hired labour units
(ie. 4% of the total labour units) are considered.
In attham, the value of labour is paid through family labour reciprocation and not in cash
or produce shares. Therefore it is suggested that under the BMS column only the hired labour
should be considered to attain a position of comparability in case of the labour input variable.
(2)   Under the SAR column the values of crop insurance, water charges and land payment
adds upto Rs 4,955/= which is about 20% of the total outflow.  Even though the PCR has
noted that significant differences exist in the composition of costs, empirical position of the
above cost items, as reflected in the SAR column, should nevertheless be considered
particularly since these items account for one fifth of the total outflow in the SAR.
Accordingly, the Annex 1, Table I of PCR has been modified by the PMU through
Table 7, to provide a more comparable farm budget position between the SAR and the BMD
values. In this Table, the SAR and BMS I are the same as that provided in the PCR. The
BMS 2 column provides a revised farm budget taking into account only hired labour (63.8
man-days) as was done in the SAR. A net benefit Rs 35,000/= is derived through this revised
budget.
5.0 COMMENTS IN RESPECT OF SPECIFIC ISSUES UNDER VARIOUS SECTIONS
Apart from the comments made under Para 5.13 therein, the analysis given vide Paras
5.4 through 5.11 generally deals with the shortcomings in the project implementation only. It
would have been more relevant, if specific references were given to the circumstances under
which various contract awarding procedures, designs and construction procedures were adopted,
and whether they have been successful or not under such circumstances during various stages
of implementation of the project.



24
5.1 Section 5.4 - Civil Works
Construction was not carried out on worker/settler basis in Zones 3-6 as stated therein.
However, this was initially tried out in Parts of Zone 2 mainly. It accepted that the project
management experimented with various strategies on the type and size of contracts to be
awarded, from time to time during the implementation of the project. As the conditions changed
from time to time, one strategy adopted successfully at one time was found to be not quite as
successful at another time. Though awarding of large scale contracts resulted initially in
improved performance overall delays were encountered due to poor performance of large scale
contractors thereby forcing the project management to curtail some of the contracts. Further,
MECA experienced delays in re-awarding such work due to difficulties involved in quantifying
partially completed work.
Responses received from contractors for large scale contracts on irrigation work were not
encouraging. It is our view that values of those contracts were not large enough to attract many
International Contractors. Further, the large local contractors were not fully aware of and were
not geared to undertake these irrigation works scattered over large areas. On many occasions
the competition among the contractors was too severe and the tendered prices were found to be
too low and unrealistic in terms of the nature of work.
5.2   Section S.11 - Supervision and Control
In spite of the fact that there was a marked improvement in the quality of precast
concrete components produced for F-canal structures, the in situ structures were found to be
more appropriately adoptable in respect of overall quality. The performance of small scale
contractors in the construction of canal structures has very much improved over the years. The
quality achieved on the construction of in situ concrete F-canal structures in the balance areas
of Zones 4, 5, 6 has proved this point.
5.3 Section 5.17- Settlement
The settlement considerations spelt out for selection of settlers to a great extent differed
at the stage of selection. As pointed out in the Report, 38% of settlers in System 'C' were
evacuees, while 13% of the re-settlers were from within the project area. The settlement of
evacuees was the highest priority, but the numbers that were to be settled in System C were not
known at the time of the preparation of the SAR. Hence a fair proportion of the settlers tended
to lack agricultural knowledge and experience. In order to minimize possible negative impacts



25
arising from this situation, intensive training programmes were conducted for both farmers and
officers at Training Centres in the Blocks, and also at the Development Centre at
Girandurukotte.
As regards Second generation settlers, the married children of settlers are provided with
1/2 Acre (.2 ha.) of highland allotments. The total number of allotments set apart for this
purpose from Zone 2 - 6 is 3154, and of this 2019 allotments have already been alienated to
them. The granting of settler assistance to these families similar to that provided to of the
normal farmer families settled in the Downstream areas is now under consideration.
5.4   Section 5.19 - Provision of Rations
Provision of rations by the World Food Programme to settler families was carried out
in respect of the settlers who were unable to raise crops due to delays in providing irrigation
water. An increase in the value of items given as settler assistance is considered in the light of
the present escalation of prices.
5.5   Section 5.20- Issuance of Land Permits
The delay in issuing land permits is mostly confined to Zones 5 and 6. It is noted that
a lapse of at least 2-3 years generally occurs before issuance of the above permits, as land
marking by the Survey Department has to be completed prior to issue of grants and permits.
As regards charging of-construction costs, no firm decision has yetbeen made.
5.6   Section 5.21 - Cashew Plantation
The comments made by the PCR regarding the Cashew plantation are acceptable.
However, MEA has now taken action to provide sufficient safeguards to improve the existing
conditions and to make the project viable by erecting electric fences to check wild life damage,
etc.
The MEA also settled 368 settlers by allocating 7 1/2 Ac. (3.06 ha.) land for each
family. They are now looldng after the existing plantations, and are also involved in the
planting of new areas together with gap filling in the areas where the number of trees are less
than 40 per Ac. ( 98 per ha.) For this purpose a nursery has been set up and is managed by a
Block Manager, 2 Unit Managers and an Agricultural Officer. The Cashew plantation is now
administered taking 200 Ha. as a single block.



26
5.7   Section 5.24 - Fuelwood Plantation
Out of the appraisal target of 3,000 Ha. of fuelwood plantation, 1356 Ha. have already
been planted. However, the unsettled conditions of the country between 1988 and 1990 created
serious set-backs for the implementation of this programme. In addition money provision was
also curtailed due to a general shortage of funds.
The provision of 10 coconut plants to settlers at the initial stages of settlernent has
resulted in their meeting a substantial portion of the fuelwobd requirements from this source.
Though this amount has not been quantified, it is apparent that the coconut trees provide a major
component of the energy requirements of the settler families. This fact has not been taken into
consideration in the SAR.
5.8   Section 5.25 - Social Infrastructure
Both schools and health facility buildings are somewhat less than in the planned
programme. It is considered that the existing number of schools and health buildings are quite
adequate. The problem really remains with regard to provision of adequate staff by the
respective Ministries conceruied. Further, 4 schools constructed in the project still remain to be
opened for want of sufficient number of students. They are located in Paludeniya in Siripura
block of zone 4, Nawagahaela in Nuwaragala block of zone 4 and Mawanawala in Mawanawela
block of zone 5.
5.9   Section6
Yield figures derived from crop cutting surveys conducted by Department of Census and
Statistics are accepted as unbiased estimates. In bench mark survey, yields are estimated by
interviews, after harvesting, and suffer from reporting errors. The PCR estimated production
figures by year 1999 based upon yield data derived from crop cutting surveys are the:efore
acceptable.
5.10 Section 6.
An inadequacy of information on cultivation techniques of Other Field Crops (OFC) have
been reported. While this fact is acknowledged the low uptake of OFC in irrigated area are also
due to other reasons cited in this paragraph. In the presence of an adequate supply of irrigation
water, farmers prefer to cultivate paddy.



27
S.11 Section 6.7
Planting of crops such as pepper and coffee are not recommended on account of
unsuitable agronomic conditions in the project area.
5.12 Section 6.13
Even if zone 6 was kept for subsequent development, it would not have resulted in a
s gnificant reduction in elephant damage.  However as this area could be brought under
irrigation, it would only be a matter of time for this land also being taken up for development.
A connection through zone 6 to the north could bring additional problems in system B. Planned
Park development, Habitat enrichment and improved Management coupled with erection of
electric fencing as now envisaged should have been included as part of the project at the design
stage. Long term plans have to be developed taking into consideration all factors to determine
an ecological balance of human and wild life protection within the area.
5.13 Section 7 - Project Sustainability
Sections 7.1 to 7.4
The observations made are accepted. Action is being taken to improve the efficiency of
water usage by:
i) Turn-out leader training;
ii) Improved farm practices training for officers and farmers;
iii) Maintenance of canals (FCC) through Sharmadana.
It is envisaged that most of the short-comings would be overcome by forming effective
Farmer Organizations. Ultimate operation and maintenance of the F & D channels, water
distribution, collection of water charges, will be the responsibility of the Farmer Organizations
which are expected to foster a participatory management system practically in all Mahaweli
Downstream development areas.
It is imperative that for future sustainability of agriculture in the project areas,
particularly with respect to productivity maintenance, priority attention must be accorded to the
matter of improving seed quality, higher use of organic fertilizer and more effective marketing
strategies than followed at present. The Mahaweli Economic Agency is currently directing its
attention to the above aspects.



28
6.0 OTHER zENERAL OBSERVATIONS
1. The lessons learned in system H were used for the planning exercise of system C without
much modifications. One of the reasons for the envisaged non-realization of the cropping
pattern in system C is the fact that soil types are different from that of system H. System H
consists of a large extent of RRE soils suitable for OFC, whereas System C consists of Alluvial
and RBE soils. This was not fully taken into consideration at the .titial design stage.
2. Blocks 409 and 410 were initially identified for a sugar plantation. There was a considerable
delay in taking a firm decision on this investment. A proposal for the development of
commercial farms in Blocks 409 and 410 was also designed. This was accepted by the Bank but
MECA was unable to implement it in view of the non-availability of suitable contractors.
3. Many privileges given at the outset of the project to the field staff were removed during the
last 3-5 years. This has caused a loss of morale among the staff that was highly motivated
during the accelerated phase of the construction, resulting in a loss of productivity.
4.  Uncertainties on future prospects of the MASL employees, particularly as regards
employment after completion of the project, has caused the project implementation to be
delayed. It has been noted that the staff tend to merely safeguard their current employment
towards the tail end of a project.
5. The construction of access roads were completed after most of the other developments were
achieved. Many of the project vehicles were badly damaged and became unroadworthy due
largely to the lack of proper access at the initial stages. The lessons that can be learned from
this project is to construct the main access roads as a priority item, ex ante. This would
encourage speedy resettlement, better marketing opportunities in the critical initial stages, and
acceptance by the other in line departments and agencies such as Health, Education and others
to send their staff.
6. System C towns such as Giradurukotte, Dehiattakandiya, suffered from over publicity. They
would have benefitted more if programme expediency was given higher prominence. They were
located considering their position within a regional hierarchy. The importance of Mahiyangana
town as regional centre for example was neglected.



Table I     Calculation of import Pty  price of padda
1991 cons.         Prevailing _xchange  C..F. valueTr. f   gae rice
Year       prpce    Foreign    price    F & I     rate     Colombo      _    Local  & Proce.    Rice     Paddy
US$/ton   Inflator  US$/ton    USS    US$=Rs   USS        Rs      Inflator    Rs _     R _   (Rs)
1983       409      1.47    278.2    36.75    25.00    315.0   7874.5       2.01    -79.6    7794.9   5300.6
1984       379      1.50    252.7    37.50    26.28    290.2   7625.6       1.60   -100.0    7525.6   5117.4
1985       321      1.49    215.8    37.19    27 '1    253.0   6934.7       1.89    -84.7    6850.0   4658.0
1986       265      1.26    210.3    31.50    28.52    241.8   6896.6       1.94    -82.5    6814.2   4633.6
1987       263      1.15    228.7    28.75    30.76    257.4   7919.0       1.71    -93.6    7825.5   5321.3
1988       323      1.07    301.9    26.75    33.03    328.6  10854.3       1.45   -110.3   10743.9   7305.9
1989       345      1.08    319.4    27.00    40.00    346.4  13857.8       1.33   -120.3   13737.5   9341.5
1990       293      1.02    287.3    25.50     4024     312.8  12585.3      1.09   -146.8   12438.5   8458.2
1991       314      1.00    314.0    25.00    42.58    339.0  14434.6       1.00   -160.0   14274.6   9706.7
1992       286              286.0    25.00 .  42.58    311.0  13242.4              -160.0   13082.4   8896.0
1993       262              262.0    25.00    42.58    287.0  12220.5              -160.0   12060.5   8201.1
1994       260              260.0    25.00    42.58    285.0  12135.3              -160.0   11976.3   8143.2
1995       265              265.0    25.00    42.58    290.0  12348.2              -160.0   12188.2   8288.0
2000       256               256.0    25.00    42.S     281.0  11965.0            -160.0    11805.0   80274
2005 onward        240 _            240.0    25.00    42.58    265.0  11283.7_             -160.0   11123.7   7564.1
Table 2
Paddy Production and Value of Zone 3-6
Product.  Price    Value
Year    (tons)    (Rs/ton)  (Rs Mill)
1983       340   4468.0      1.52
1984      3524   4577.9    16.13
1985     10797   4526.5    48.87
1986     31916   4023.2   128.40
1987     45409   5093.4   231.29
1988     63304   6877.4   435.36
1989     71304   8502.4   606.26
1990     85206   8316.2   708.59
1991     98038   10427.5  1022.29
1992    103585   9616.8   996.16
1993    118659   8921.9  1058.66
1994    130494   8864.0  1156.70
1995    139170   9008.8  1253.75
1196    139170   9008.8  1253.75
1997    142065   9008.8  1279.83
1998    142065   .3008.8  1279.83
19991   144960   90W8.8  1305.91
2000    144960   8748.2  1268.14
2005    1449601  8284.9  1200.98



Table 3
Paddy Production and Value of the ?roduction in Zone 1
Cultivated Extent 1/   Harvested Extent 2/   Average Yield 3/  Total
Year   I       (ha)                 (ha)             (tons/ha)         Produc.  Value 4/
Maha       Ya!a      Maha      Yala      Maha       Yala    (tons)  (Rs Mill.)
1985      395        1185    335.75    1007.25    3.582      3.361   4588.02    20.77
1986      395        1185    335.75    1007.25    3.885      3.632   4962.72    19.97
1987      395        1185    335.75    1007.25    4.569      3.531   5090.64'    25.93
1988      395        1185    335.75    1007.25    4.068      4.010   5404.901    37.17
1989      395        1185    335.75    1007.25    3.525      3.861   5072.51    43.13
1990      395        1185    335.75    1007.25    3.951      4.307   5664.77    47.11
1991      395        1185    335.75    1007.25    3.824      3.701   5011.74    52.26
1992      395        1185    335.75    1007.25    3.556         4   5222.938    50.23,
1993      395        1185    335.75    1007.25        4         4   5372.00     47.93
1994      395        1185    335.75    1007.25        4         4   5372.00     47.621
1995      395        1185    335.75    1007.25        4         4   5372.00     48.40 
1996      395        1185    335.75    1007.25        4         4   5372.00     48.40
1997      395        1185    335.75    1007.25        4         4   5372.00     48.40
1998      395        1185    335.75   .1007.25        4         4  5372.00      48.40
1999      395        1185    335.75    1007.25        4         41  5372.00     48 40
20001     395        1185    335.75    1007.25        4         41  5372.00     47.00
2005 onward*     395        1185    335.75    1007.25       41         4   5372.00     44.51
1/ 75% in Yala and 25% in Maha out of total 1,580 ha.
2/0 .85 of the cultivated extent
3/ Source: Dept. of Census and Statistics until 1991/92 Maha season
4/ Production multip:ied by the price given in Table 1



Table 4  - Calculation of cost ot fetlilizer
Ufea                                             TSP                           MOP
I 1991 cons.'        PrevailingI Port. Tr. 'Exchange Farm gate price    11991 cons Farm gale psuce                      1991 cons Fa4m gate pfrice
Year    I  price   I Foreign    price    F & I    Local   & PRoce. I   qte      urea        N       ptice      TSP        P       pr ce     MOP        K
US$/1 n   Inflator  USSllon    USS    Inilator   s5tion   USS=Rs   Rs/ton    Rs/kg    US$/Ion    RsIton    Risjkg   USSlon   Rslon    Rs/kg
1983        * J9     1.47     135.4     36.75     2.01    180901    25 C0    6112.1      13 29       199    6112 1     13 00      112    4632 5      7 72
1984        257.     1.50     171.3    37.50       1.60    14400j    2628    6928.t1   1506          198    58945      1254       126    46330       772
1985        202,     1.49     1358      37 19      1.89    1701 0    2741    64427:    1401:         180    60373      1285       125    50238       837
11986a      134i     1.26     106.3    31.50       1 94    17460     2852    56775j    1234,         152.   60848 t295             B6    4591t0       65
19871       134;     1.15     1165      28.7       1 71    15390'    3076    60076|    13061         156.   66495      14 5        79    453641    756
19881       167      1 07     156 1     26 75      1.45    1305 0    33 03    7343 7     15 96       170    7438 3     1b 82       91    5090 3      8 ;8
1989        143      1.08     132 4     27 00      1.33    1197 0    40 00,   7573 3j    16 461      155    80177 7    1706       l0/    6240 0     10 40  t
1990        161      1 02     157 8     25 50      1 09    981 0     40 24    8358 7     18 17j      134    7293 6     I552       100    5952 2      9 92
1991        172      100      1720      25.00      1.00    9000      4258    928831    20191         1331   76276      1623       tOJ   .660S7     1101
1992        150               1500      25 00              9000     42 8S 8351 51    1 161           1221   7209 3      s5 34     109    6601 7     11 01
1993        155               1550      2500               9000      4258'  856441    18a62          1281   73796      is  o       to    66483      110t
1994        161               161 0     2500               9oo1    4258,   88199         1917        134,1   77202     tf43       112    67335      It 2;
*t 1    1995.        165               1650     2500                900t01    4258    899021    0954         137    78480       n1I>       il)   6EAU3      1 1 O
20001       114;              1740      2500               9000      4258    9373.4      2038'       134,   77202                 %((A   b4/8t      lUts'
2005 onwadq         1/ I!             1710      25 00               000'    4258    92457       201 0        131,   75925       t10,     10t    64/80      1080



Cosl ol P#toductioin ol l'atldy ltd the Rev,tsed Economn.c Analysis
1483               t984               l08s                1986               1987               1888                3988              4980
mo.Iy    Ratw         Cost    RPAl       Cost    ltq       Cost      Ih4te    Ctsol     telu     Cost    IIl.3k      Col       LtI.t    Caso t    late     Cost
,seed                               209      559   116779        573   t10653       566   I1346         503   106023       636   132976       06b0   il9744      1Ot03  2M2O3M    1040   247360
'fettdw N                           138     108a   149243       1043   143865      1088   IbU097       4068   147374      10 3    14284I     13 t    1 4.2l07    32Q2   405840     2060  2844 04
p                           54     a863    293.44       all    27562       8.48    28820      854    20037       825    28039        962    3269g       946    321 77    24 71    7383 6
K                            0so    659    32807        0ts    30917       647    32367       652    32617       629    31467        737    36833z       25    36233      4442    721 It
Chemlicl                      4.77 I                138000             1380 00             35400              %380 00            1380 00            1380 00            138000             330000
.0.45 kg
tAbo   HuA baon.                   t09.t    5265   5744.42      5265   574412      5265   574412       5265   674432      5265   574412      5265   57443       6265 G   74412     5265   574412
Feemd                         122.2     52t5   6433.83     5265   043383       5265   643303      5265   643383      5265   643383      5265   643383       420    t 643383    5265   643383
Animal                             21.3    22970   48028t    22970   489203    229 70   489263    229 70   489263    220s70   4892261    22970   48920W :aa       /O   389261    22970   4092 6
fTI.Sto                              e.2   65150   4039030    65350   403930    65150   403930    65150   4039 30    65150   403930    615 0   403830    OA360   403930    65150   403930
3Mce.                        tz162400                                   MI 210            162 00              1621 00           1621 00             1621 00            1W2100             1621 00
;Tott                                             2739445             27330a1            2740736             2725134            2746378            2822463            ??&07390           3058782
iedeo.t 1as8 (pr ha)                              14571.35            14537.67           14578.28           1449530             %460839            1501310            3625212            16270 12
;00to              101                 1992              4093                1994               1995                2000          2005 _iawo            t
"nirly   PA"         Cam       ptate    Cool      pate      Cost      Rbt      Codl      Rate     Cotl    Rale        Cost      Rate     Cost     Roto      Ctnt
Seed                               2        4040   273.60      1304   272484       4203   25t323      1 15   233035       1108   231460      l126   2353        1094   220 94      to3s   216335i
FatilOz N                            438    2064   284404      2001   358935        750   241545 4S    797   247032      1052   255696       IS89   2607 06     3972   272203      3945   268370
P                           34     24.74    730l6      2349    7884St     1459    49620       1496    501.52     is6     53316      1595    5424        15608   5334t6    1541    52392.
K                           80     1442    723.7       4603      41067     0 51    52548      1058    52903      1072    536.12     to0      532903     4030    53403     3030    51483
Chemk,i                       4.77 1K               1380.030    130000                                        138000             1380 00             130000             138000            138000'
045 hg
Labmtit.  bo.                     400.4    6265   5744.12      $26S   574412       5265   574442      5205   574412      5285   574412       5265   574442      5265   5/4412      5265   574432
fantiy                        122.2     5205   643383      52.65   643383      5265   643383      5265   643383      5285   043383       5265   643383      52*6   U43383      5265   643383
Anima                        1    21.3   22970   480246   229 70   409203    22970   489261    22970   489263    22970   489263    22970   489261    22970   4002 3    22970   459263
T.octw                              8.2   65150   403930    65150   4039s30    651s5    403930    65450   403030    65450   403930    65l60   403930    051S5o   403930   605l0   403930
,ice.                                              162400              M62 40              1621 00            1621 00            t62100              Ws 200            1621 00             1621 00
TobI                                              3058702             3205S22            3006t 21            295807             3005078            3014321             3386682           29996 46
;thdaeft 4.0                                      1827042             17050.65           4590. 00           15935.16            1594.40            4603362            36046 is           45955by



Tabl. 6
Economic cash flow using prevailing prices
1982     1983      1984        196S      1966     1967      1986     1969     1990      1991.
A. SENEFItS (PA MilD"on)
Paddy (Zone 3-6)                              1.52    16.S3        48.87    128.40   231.29   435.36   606.26    708.59   102229
Paddy (Zone I)                                                     20.77     19.97    25.93    37.17    43.13     47.11     52.26
OFCs                                                   1.00         2.12     3.35      2.81    14.90    29.70     27.52     46.50
Fuesiood                                                                                                                    0301
Cashew                                                                                                             0.09     1940
Homestead                                              1.19         2.06     3.56      6.49     9.03     11.65    15.78    l6.601
Daling                                                 2.37         2.96     3.81      5.44     7.72    10.23     14.77     18.60
Total                               0.00      1.52    20.70       76.76   159.09   271.95   504.19   700.96   813.66  1177.951
6. COSTS (Re Mllion)
Capital costs                      99.24    366.21    328.29      456.08    857.96    706.07    595.51   796.54    226.32    286.01
Recumrent coods                     7.49     10.46     2.26        79.87    84.47    109.83    1 18.a8    107.95    131.61    126 70;
Paddy prod. cost (Zone 3-6)                   4.16    28.22       * 39.86    122.85   152.64    228.69    240.24    329.94    37951
Paddy prod. cost (Zone 1)                                          23.03    22.90     23.08    23.72    24.10    2571       2694
OFC prod.cost                                          0.44         0.90      1.44     t.23     6.48    t2.93     12.tt    20.20
Dairy prod. cost                              0.30     0.75         1.01      1.29     1.81     2.65      3.38     4.95      6.20
Netbenefilorgone                    5.62      7.01    10.75         9.74     7.89      9.65    19.93    26.17     21.93     29.00
Tota                              112.35   3 11.6 370.70         610. 4    596.80  tO04.32   995.87  1211 .31t 752.57   874.56
1992     1993      1994        199S      1996     1997      1998     1999 2000-04 2005- 31                     i
IA. BENEFITS (Rs SiAlion)
'Paddy (Zone 3-6)       *          996.16  tO15.66   1156.70      t2S3.75   1263.75   1279.83   1279.83   1305.91   1268.14   120096
Pdy (Zone 1)                     . 50.23    47.93    47.62        46.40    48.40    48.40     46.40    48.40     47.00     44 51
i OfCs                              65.40     6.70     68.70        66.70    68.70    68.70     68.70    66.70     68670    68 70
Fuedwood                            0.70      t.30     2.20         3.20     4.20      5.00     5.80      6.20     6.30     6 30
Cashew                             20.10    23.60     25.20        26.10    26.10    28.10    26.10    26.10      26.10    26.10'
Homestead                          21.00     21.00    21.00        21.00    21.00     21.00    21.00     21.00    21.00     21 00
Daritng                            21.00     21.00    21.00        21.00     21.00    21.00    21.00     21.00    21.00(    21 00:
Total                            1174.59  1242.19  1342.42      1442.14  1443.14  1470.02  1470.82  1497.31  1458.23  1368.59
e. COSTS (Rs  illion)
Capital costs                     248.44    154 54    34.23
!Recwtent costs                    111.08    125.75    104.95
Paddy prod, cost (Zone 3-6)       371.94    420.69    463.55      485.55    485.55   485 55   485 55    485 55    485 93   483 18
Paddy prod, cost (Zone I)          25.26     2518    25.26         Q5.33    2533      25.33    2533      2533     2535     25 21
OFC prod. cost                     28.40     29.80    29.80       , 29.80   29.80    29.80     29 80     29.80    29.80    29 80
Dairy prod. cost                    7.00      7 00     7.00         7.00     7 00      7.00     7.00      7 00     7.00      7 00
Notbenefitfotgone                 24.10     18.80    18.50        20.00     18.30    1800     18.00    18.00     18.00     1800
Total                             816.23   781.75   683.28       567.68   56s.9a   565.68   565.68   565.68   566.08   563.19
Economic Rate of Return
Discount rate                     10.00%    1.00%   14.28%
PV or project benefits          7791t746  49673 44  4182.180
PV of jpoject costs             6111.124  2377229  4183.186
BCR                                1 275     2090     1.000
EliR                             t4.283Y.



34
Table .7
Farm Sudoet
- _    _    _ SAR              BMS I/             BMS 2t
Total inSow                       54298              581S7              581S7
Operating costs
Seed                                765  ,             1668               1668
Fert
N                                   2060
P                                   538
K                                   392
Total                              2990               4444               4444
Compounding and other
costs (21%)                          635
Sub total of fettilizer            3625
Pesticides                          1004               1393               1393
Labour                               260               7095               4147
Animal power                        2042               5436    -          5436
Tractor                                                4039               4039
Miscellaneus                        1019               1801               1801
OFCs operating cost                                     277                277
Sub total per season                8714
Total operating costs +                              26153              23205
10% contingencies                 19172
Crop Insurance                       894
Water charges                       1255                 30                 30
Land payment                        2806
Total Outflow                     24126              26183              23235
Net benefit before financing      30172              31974              34922
BMS 1/ Given as same in the PCR
BMS 2/ Only hired labour considered (63.8 labour units)



35
PART m
1. Related Bank Cedits
Cred/                                 rapo                    Aroval        Stats              Comments
Th                                                              Date         i
Mabaweli Gan8a         To increase agricultural production and  January    Completed   The ptoject was sucfuUy
Devetopment Pro0ec.    standard of iving of about 53,000 families  1970  (De. 1979)  completed, even though
Stage I                by providing supplemeantal iriation water                      impkementation was delayed by
Cr. 174-CE/Ln. 653-CE    to about 51,000 ha of exising irigated                       about two years It was the
(USS29 million)        land and full imgation of about 42,000 ha                      first tg  of implementation
of new land to be developed in subsequent                     of the Mahaweli Ganga Water
stages. To be achieved by constucton of                       Master Plan
head wos, diersion dams anid tunnels at
PoFlgoa and Bowatenne, and of a 40 MW
power plant at PolgoUa.
Tank Irigation         To igprove irigation supply rduce      Nomber   Completed   Project succem wil depend on
Modemkaton Poect    seepage losses. provide inputs, strengthen  1977    (June 1983)  farmers fully adopting project
Cr. 6664CE             agricultural extension and water                               recommendations and
(USSS million)         management in five major tank schemes in                       govenment agncies working
the dry zone.                                                 together to provide required
services.
Second Mahawei Gangs  To increase paddy production and        Aprl 1977   Completed   Work on the project was
Development Project    employmeent of about 7,000 farm families          (June 1985)  started at the end of 1977,
Cr. 701-CE             in the Mahaweli System area (28,000 ha),                       when GOSL decided to accel-
(US$19 million)        and povide productive support and social                       crate the Mahawcli Gauge
services throughout the whole system area                     Development Program. The
project should be consideted
success  in regard to
attaining major objectves such
as land development. settle-
ment and crop production.
Mahawali Gangp         To support the Goernmenes efforts to    January    Completed   The project was succesl but
Technical Assistance   accelerate implementation of the Mahawei    1980   (Sep. 1985)  the envisaged implementation
Prwjc                  development program by asistng with                            period of two years was
Cr. 979-              studies to select the best plan for a future                    unrealstic.
(USS3 million)         transbasin diversion proect and to provide
detailed engineering design for
downsteam development.
Vitage Irrigation      To support rehabilitation of 1200 village    June 1981   Completed   The ptoject has met its targets
Rehabiltation Projet    irrition schemes, moderniation of about          (D 1990)  on a much smaller area than
Cr. 1160-CE            SOO other small schemes, tegthening of                         originally expected, and this
(SDR 24.5 milion)      government institutions invoed in village                      required extending the proict
irigation, and Initiation of a syatic                         period by four years. The
water management proam.                                       PCR rated overal perfoma
as satisfactory.
Major Iriation         To rehabilitatc existng irrigation     De. 1984    On-going   Work remains suspended at
Rehabilitation         infrastucture and to address water                (June 1993)  three sub-projects, but on the
Cr. L537-CE            management issues and irigation pmces                          four other sub-projects good
(SDR 17 million)       in order to achieve a more efficient use of                    progrss has been achieved.
water.
Nadonal Irigaton       Rehabiitation and improved O&M of      June 1991    On-going   This project can be considered
Rehabilitation Prject    minor, medium and larg Irigaton                 (June 1998)  a follow-up project to VIRP
Cr. 22604CE            schemes to stabilize and increase                              (Cr. 1160C) as far as minor
(SDR 2L9 milion)       agriclturai production and incomes and                         schemes are concerned.
raise standards of lvn&
aI F s in bradketa indicate actual or expected dosing dat



36
2. Project Timetable
ieem                        _at Plaed                                        Dat Ritsed             Actua Date
Identifcation                                         1965-1968                                     1965-1968 A/
Prepation                                          December 197                                 Decmbe r1979 kf
Appisal Mission                                      March 1980                    -            Mach/Aprtl 1980 SI
Credit Negotiations                              Apil 2-May 6, 1981               .            April 28WMay 6,1981
Board Approval                                    December 16,18                  -                Jun  3 1981
Credit Signatur                                   November S, i981                -November 5,1981
Cedit Effectivenas                                Februay 8, 192                  -              Febra  B.1982
Proect Compledio                                 December 31, 1986                -                    a.a.
Credt aosing                                      Decmber 31, 1987         December 31,1991       May 12, 1992 S/
J/ UNDP/FAO plus Sri Imnkak enginees
v/ Report funded by ODA.
2/ SAR dated May26, 1981.
P/ Completion isn  - pected by 1994.
S/ WVT cancllato of SDR 14,163,98.96. The dosing date was extended four times, and the credit account was kept open four months
beyond the final closing date. Reaons for exsion were: () seeuaty ptobkms in the projet  area during 1988/9; and (Qi) poor
implementation performance Of contractos
3. Credit Disbursements
Es4mated and Actual Disbursements
(Cumulaw,   MiLlion)
MDA Fisal Year      FYM2    FYM3    rAF4    FM 8S          6      FY87    FM      F9 F     NO    F1  F
Apprisa Estimate
- SDR                   16.7     3S.8    4S.2    S3.4       61.5     69.6    733        -                        -
- USS                   20S      44.0    SS5.     65S       75.5     855      90.0      -
Acta
- SDR                  11.77    19.73    24       37.06    37.91     40.04    43.47    4603    49.78   S4.40  59.14
- USS                  1.10    21.77    30.79    3929    40.23       42.89    47.43    S0.74   551    6.95  68.48
Actual as % of
Apprais  Estimate
- SDR                   785      55.1    629      69A       6L6      575      593      62.8     67.9    742   80.7
- USS                   63.9    49.5    555       60.0     S33       502     52.7    56.4       6L7    688   76.1
Date of Final Disbursement  May 12, 1992



I 
J    I                r                   rna
Ii'                                 U
ii                                                                              I
uJ
IISf                                                                        I
It                                                                          U
uacgcasgasssssB3   ssssisg  ss  iii    !!                       I   I
ii                                                                          I      -J
ii                                                                          Si'
U-
U0
6
I
                       §ss§§ii  ts                           lb



38
B. Implementation by Zone
Works in Zones 3 to 6               Unit         Zone 3      Zone 4      Zone S      Zone 6    Total a/  Progress in
% of Total
Distributary Canals
Length                             krn           53.4        217.2        44A         36.0       351.0        100.0
Earthwork                       '00(0 m3         243.2      1,619.9      414.1       436.7      2,713.9        98.6
Structures                         no             549        2,321        800         616        4,286         98.3
Field Canals
Length                             km            128.2       6i9.4       168.6       130.0      1,046.2        95.3
Structures                                       2,653      20,618       4,994       4,371      32,636         92.0
Primary and Secondary Drains        km             48.0       366.1       109.5        65.7       589A          91.6
Tanks                               no                6          12           3           3          24         91.7
Land Clearing                       ha            3,066      12,752        2,686      2,105      20,609        100.0
Land Levellngb                      ha             411        2,717         545         152       3,825         90.0
Roads
Market Roads                       km             213         71.7        15.2        14.0       122.2        100.0
Market Road Pavement
Revised Plan                 km             21.0         73.3         8.0        17.7       120.0         38.5
Achievement                   km             21.0        25.2          0           0         46.2
Hamdet Roads
Revised Plan                  km            56.1        287.4        82.0        64.0       4895          80.2
Achievement                   km             56.1       232.6        72.0        32.0       392.7            -
Water Supply Schemes
Revised Plan                  no               1           5           1           1           8          50.0
Achievement                   %               88          60           0           0          50             -
Buildings for Service Centers       no             285        1,463         302         283       2,333         96.0
Results
Irrigation
Revised Plan                  ha           2,796       10,420       2,467       2,000      17,683         82.0
Achievement                   ha            2,796       8,851       1,564       1,273      14,484            -
Settlement
Revised Plan cj               no           2.408       10,333       2,477       1,977      17,195         94.0
Achievement                   no            2,374       9,831       2,320       1,611      16,136
if Revised estimates (see Part II/4A).
k/  Improvement after gentral suvey.
p/  Excluding seed farm (288 ha) in Zone 3.



39
5. Project Cost and Financing
A. Project Cost (Rs Million)
D!oIan                                                      Is          OMR rA8h       Actual       xt  c Expeeded   /   Foein                        Loca
1881       Coiki-         (Eid       (End       Expndl-    Apam-al
gede          18981)     l'rn4edt      timny    
L ChlaWaft
Rgtht Bank Transibasin Canal tnd ConstrucUon Camp        593.0      1,035.72      S06.68       806.S8         0.00           78      481.08       32560
Feasibility Studies and Sumer                               nil          n,i       70.33        15.93         5.60                    70.t4         S 79
- Wots in Zones 3 to 6
Pilot Farm Demonstraton (30M                                nil          nil       104.84      t04 84         0.00                    62.90        41.94
hain and Stanch Canals                                   3C0.0        523.97     1.W5 t8      1,965.88        0.00          375     1.444.02      521.66
Ostributary and Fiald Canal,                              103.0       179.90       7t6.00      677.44       161.44          488      350.96       t26.46
Main Orains                                               10.0         17.47
Secondary and Field Drains                                93.0        152.43       25.08        25.09         0.00           is       10.04        15.06
Ltnd Oeanng                                              113.0        197.36      236.88       245.e6         9.00          124      147.40        982
On-Faem Oerelprfetw                                       136.0       237.53       138.35      151.86        13.54           64       30.33       121.51
Acce  Roads and Highwsay                                    nil          nil        4.91         6.81         2.00                     3.45         3.48
Markat Roads                                              53.0         57.84       147.44      224.94        77.50          390      112.47       112.47
Village Center Roads                                       9.0         15.72          !1           -/
anilet Roads                                               10.0        17.47       70.38        b1.38        11.00          466       32.54        48.62
- Tanks and Tank Improvement                                  nil          nl        53.26        53.28         0.00            -       2664         26.64
Physical Contingencies (159%                             210.0
Engineering, Supentaon and Admin. (MECAI                 160.0        243.00      554.48       700.96       148.50          2s8,       0.00       700.96
~ik4~l                                                  I~7*1.0     2.a.29      4.S428       ti120-W       428.56          19e     2.T0         2,54 .5
t. SO'A arid Mmhadx iharira,
EducatIon/Health and Other Public Service Buildngs        102.4       17l.07      8a2.60       645 00        62 20          377      193.50       451.50
Waiet Supply and Wells                                       nil          nilt      44.28        95.26        51.00            -       47.63        47.63
E lectrici and Teacomnunuicaton                               nil          nil       54.65        64.65        10 C0            *       45.25        19.40
Community Facilites                                        4.2          7.02          V/                         .
- Management and Opeona* Offices and Quarters              113.8       190.12          S            S             *
Physica Contingencies (1098                               22.0
= Engineering, Supervion and Admin. (MECA)                  19.4        29.48     aee aboye    see above
Subtotal                                                 281.        39.7.67      661.71       804.91       12320          at20      21838       5tias
IL Eqimet and Vuhld
Constructon and Maintenan  Equpment                        43.2        65.61        65.34        7i.14        5.80          106       87.58         3.58
C Construction and MaintenneVehclee                         28.8        43.74        74.20        74,20         0.00          170       70.49         3.71
Management and OperatIons Vehicss                         23.4         35.54       124.55       124.55        0.00          350       118.32        8.23
Training Center Equlpmen and VehclWe                        8.1        12.30          nil          nAl
Tractor ire Service Equipment and VehIcl,                 81.2         92.95       152.49       154c.5        2.18          186       148.92        7.73
Socia lnfastructure Equipment and Vehicles                3.6          5.47          ndl          ml
Settlement VehIcles                                        4.5          6.63          iii   nil       
SubtaW                                                   172.8       2W44         41658        424.54        7.98          152       403.31       21M.!
IV. Srttteme Asslwce                                         37.5        56.95       170.33      222.51        52.18          391        22.25      200.26
V. MWntrn                                                   13.0        19.74
VL TechialAgAice                                             73.8       112.08       534.78       794.90      280.12          709       635.92       158.98
VIL O.   Dung Prtjet lphaibon                               6Z4          S4.77
Personnel Emoluments and Travel Subsstence                    S            I        180.96       308.24       125.28                     0.00       306.24
Maintenance Vehicles/Machinery/Buildlngs                       /          91        100.16       15689         58.73                    23.53       153.36
Agricultute and Setle Serces                                 V1/                     50.25        57ns          6.90            -       17.15        40.00
Cashew and Forestry                                           nil         nil       170.72       191.32        20.80            *        0.00       191.32
Miscelaneous                                                   /          9/         35.50        60.13        24.63            *        8.01        54.12
0 & Mb of Irigation System                                    1/          V          20.97        42.61        21.64                     4.28        38.35
VII   p    dp   kiaware.                                   1,240.5                                  65.00       65.00                     13.00       52.00
TOTAL                                                   3A3t1       5,6l1.86     72  a        lI 8t447.S   1.190.22                  4,165880     4.2 1
Price ConUngencies at Appraisal  51.9%
S  No breakdown in SAR.
I No distinction has been made In MECA accounts between village center and maeta roads.
£ Included in Edetcaion/HeeIth and Other Pubtic Sente Euildings.



I
g p
g  g  g | E | e S b P  |    | ~~~~~~~g ,  i ,  ..31 ......  
I~.. 11. .                             .....|o1o|k     
S~                            S



C.    CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENOITURES BY YEAR
(in PA M1In)
DESCFPION                   1982    1963      t9s4      19ss      106       1967     t 198I    199      1990       t99t     1992      1990      1994    TOTAL C08T
I. CAPITAL COST
. tt BnSa  Ttanab    Cand and
ConauooCamp                         150.00    300.00    319.22     0.00     10.11     0.9-7)    0.s8     30.0a      (09)    o0.90      0.90      .00        0.00        606.66
Ma. and Otarch Canl                  0.00    140.40     50.46    164.36    14S.66    645.26    342.62    678.84    o00       0.00      0.00      0.90       0.00       1.060.6
.IaIon and Dtainage D.elopmnI         13.20     4102   1t3A8    26es    1e9.63    127.7    107.33    120As    11311    162.7    117.2            44.25      2Z48        1.468.20
So.d  and Adninittdiaton
ltrtmUatO and SBeltent                9.30    81.87     36.17    29set      020      91.55     6130    8976        92.43    138.93    80.08     7516.      29.40       1.10.76
Vehi. e and EquIpmfent               14.68    16.66      1.76      0.00     226        1.07    7.38      6297     64.62     4.07      8.72      .72        0.72        279.21
FRDoa                                0.00      0.00      0.00     32.23     17.67     10.s6    14.30     21As       7.03    48.41     60.00     25.00       4.60        231.05
Cahow and Foreatty                    0.96    48.84      0.00     13.93     25.67    9.oo 0      6.2     16.63    (22.23)    10.00    10.60      6.e0       4.00         191.32
TechnIca Aseesance and MonItoring     t.86     12.78    26.22     26.27     38.12     62.63    87.37    145.41      9.70    130.63    145.64    116.08      2.00        870.83
Subtotal   A            1909.56   16.47    673.29    789.60    484.17    906.77    76.96  1,032.44    34z17    462.26    405.20    270.04      63.10       8,912.72
11. RECURfRENT COSTS
Sta Salaua and Tiavel                 0.00     1s.38     3.13     87.67     64.62    68.22      3.21    119.07    130.63    146.62    96.26     99.76      76.76       1.007.19
.Vhices                              10.40     0.00      0.00      9.01     41.40    33.S6     30.67     11.62     21.74     15.80         18J.91  1.1     1.91         231.09
Equvptnot                             0.00     0.00      0.00     1.36       1.60     0.91     34A8       .88       7.67     (0.68)    4.80      1.00       0.00         71.02
.am                                   0.0o     1.16      0.00      0.17      0.77     4.66      2.06      204      4.66      4.64      4.84      7.00      10.00         42.61
Oter                                 0.00      0.00      0.00      1.72     18.07    24.99      3.98      7.62     18.21     10.60    40.61     30.61      26.51        12.40
subto      B             10.40     14.83      8.13    110.92    117.32    162.64    184.26    149.34    t82.8t    176.98    tJ4.12    157.16  131t.16      tS34.31
GRAND TOTAL (A +8)           209.985    e0.00    678.42    670.3    601.49  1,069.3    942.94   1.182.38    624.90    686.24    669.32    427.21   104.26       8.447.04
Exchange Ate RduS                    22.00     26.00     27.00     27.20    28.00     29.40     31.80    38.00     40.20     42.00     43.00    44.0       4s.00
Tota UMS mUon                         9.84     94.23     21.35     32o.     21.48     36.03     29.68    32.84     13.00     16.67     13.24     9.71       4.32         263.13
3.3%     0.21%         .1%    t2.16%   6.16%    14.69%    11.27%    12.48%   4.96%     8. 69%    5.00%     *.0%       1.846%      t10.00%
N"eg     vaua we sou-nlg adpurnomm In ME and MEA balno aheet.



42
6.1 Piqiec Results
A. Direc Benfts
Indfcats                                                  SR                                   PR
Denefitdng bfm fani  (tno)                                18,500                               17,195
Benfi*tlng command area (ha)                              18,500                               17,683
Irigmted area cropping intensity (at full                 200f                                 199% I/
development)
Increase In ice producdton (tons) W                      140.460                              132,762
Increase in am income (9e)                               400-0                                 95143 sI
Geneated farm employment (mniUlon workdays)           3.1 per annum                        3.6 per annum
s Sure.p Indcate a 1991  oppng intensity of around 1B8%.
h Assuming a 'ithout project' producton of 12,200 tons of padd.. SAR figre refers to igated paddy from Zones 3.6.
# See Ane 1, pa  s 8,9.
B. Economic Impact
SAR Estimate                        PC  Estimate
ERR (%)                                               18                                   4
Project life (Years)                                  50                                  So
Standard conversion factor (SCF)                      0.9                                 0.9
Unskild labor conversion factr (LCF)               0.8 - 09                               0.9
C. Fincial Impact 1
SAR Estimate f                 SAt Estimate                               c PCR Estiae
WIthout         With           Witout           Wm            Without           With
Prjed          Projet          Prject          Proect          Project         Pwred
Net Settler  me (Rs) 1,
I ha irripted plot            5,703          26,850          15,444          30,170          15,444          31,973
plus 0.2 ha homestead
1 For details see Annex 1.
hi Expressed in constant 1980 pries.
S SAR pojeion revalued at cosant 1991 prices.
9i Expressed in constant 1991 prices. 'Without projece incom based on SAR estimate.
'With project income from Bench Mark Survey.
1/ Net benefit before financing at full development for the non-mehansed broadcast paddy case.
D. Studies
Study                                 Purpose as Deiined at Appral                          Status             Impact of Study
L Agroconomic surveys                To determine project imnpt on production evels, farm  Partially completed   Umited
incomes, settlement progrs and probkms; to evauate
managment effctiveness, farmer training and adaptability,
and perfommance of farmer turnout groups
2. Irrgtion deliveries and system loss    To set up a water management program to determine  Partially completed   Tbc program is alrady
inigation deliveres thouout the system and identify                      providing some results
aras of unacceptable see    and/or operation IOss                        and should have an
important impact in the
Murum



43
7. Status of Covenants
DCA section     Status 1Dseon of Covenan                                                               Comment
3.02           OK        Borroner to appint eonsulat
3.06           OK        Implementao f agreult"a extension aervicea in          MBA Is cuiting new field assistants to fill cunt
accordance  th systh matk appoach agreed.             vacancies.
3.07A           OK        Borrow  to mak sasatoy arangents to ptwide crdit  Responsibility has ben assigned to Peoples Bank
to rsidents of Sytem C.                               (Zones 2 and 3) and Bank of Ce1lon Zones 46).
3.07B          OK         Povision of cdit to be suppord by adequate superiory   Bank branch ofices ham been opened In Zones 2-4,
sf and acilities.                                     mobib offmces are opeating in Zones  and 6
3.07C          OK         Borrower to cause pedodic evew and adjusments of credit   Volunteers bhe been engaed by MEA to facilitate
aangementL                                            dibution   credit and imupre repayment.
3.08           OK        Sufficient wer sipplies to be allocated to proect fom
Mahawel Gange.
3.09A           OK        Borrower to fiunish to IDA details of ptqct           Monitoorg and Evaluation Unit was set up and M&E
moiodrgevaluation prorm                               props. was submitted (7/13/83)
3.09B          OK         Borow  to impkment proJect monitorWnevaluation
progmram satisfactory to IDA.
3.1OA           OK        Bomrwer to frnish to IDA a program to avoid/minimize   US$6.0 million actin propm being implemented with
destruction of wildlife/ecology in System C and under entire   assistance from USAID (USS5.0 Nl).
Aceated Mahaweii Gang Develcpment Pogam.
3.10B          OK         Borower to commence implementation of widlife          Several widlife sanctuaies have been established
preseration pgam.                                     adjat to project area.
4.02         SOON        Audit report due to IDA  ot later than 12 months after end of Overdue audit reports for 1991 wi be submitted
fiscal year.                                          sordly.
4.04A          OKI        Borower to implement progam to collct water cges to    DCA was amended in 1991 to reflet agreements
reoer by 1991 at least average O&M COSt of irrigtiIon and   reached durlig negotiations of the National igation
dainage fadlities in project area                     Rhabilitation PojWect (Cr. 2260C     Beforc the
ameadment. complane was partiaL
4.04B          OKI         Borrower to periodicaly mriew    r charge.            See abov
4.04C          OKI        Borower to adjust water chages based on revi  referrd to  Water rates wre Increased in each of the last tour
abova y.s
4.US          REVS       Borower to implement proam to tansfer rights to prject   AdMmnisave proess to transer land rights to
beneficiaries of newy irrigted land and hmuse plot,     ttles is not prceedg stifactorily. Govenment
has still not decided on the amounts to be paid by
setters and on a date for starting payments.
11 OK            Covenant compled witL
OKI            Covenant complied with now, but was rvised predously.
SOON  -        Complian  expected in a reasonably short time.
REVS   a      Needs revision in aeement with borrwar to reflect changed circumstances.



8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staif Inputs (staffeeks)
Pft6       FYM1      FMt      FPM3       FM8      PM85    FYM5      FM         Y FY85    MY8      FMl       FM81      FM2      FM         TId
_PdPl*d*bdD
FoPp.Io                  968                         . 0    .           .    -             .        .         .                  -         .          9                         0.
Ap_ 9aa.i                                07.      u*                    .         .         .        t                                                         .                8.
tdgaps.                                           17.7                  .         .        .        -         .        -         .         .         .         -        .        17.
F"CR                                                                                       .**-   -                                                                             *0.1 79
1p.   4  PM                                                 0.0  5.1            54       162      22.0      in.      14"                  &A 4     tW        4.0        -       122
lowa                                    so".    106.6       6.0        5.       6.       12       220      12        14.5      $.          A       13*       4.7      0"       488
IL Missions
_u$     1                                                                1 At  92                          1 4a                                                           p
omuwbom2                                       c  dse.                   a                   6                      E.Mr                     I             2              p
84uAp*m 8                                      .IMn.                     I                   0                       a                       2              1             UA
_t umd                                         "  a                                          14                     EE2                                     t2            u
Tt _                                                                           _dh   _           -b
6upeUA*M                        85,6 as1                                         10                   CADI.FC                          a                            a
Amm                             At as                      a 2                   0                     AE, AC                          a 2                          a 2
&"*                              U                         S                     a                     AE.2               2 I          2              I             a
_ stRm$                         OtL 7                      a                     t2                    AE E.                           a                            a 
9 _Uumo Sw86 J                                                                   10                   A£.6E                            I 2                          a 2
tbI tO                         A$mE  so                    3                                          AL E ,  E           2 2          *                            t 
Sl_A lt is                      Dchso                      a                     11                    £E.E               S            a              2             3         2
PUh 12                          Ol So                      2                     Is                    AO. E              I            2              2             a         a
_pWMnu                          .t  eS                     4                     Is                  AE. F        E t                  3              2             a         a
_t"ha14                         tO.0                       a 21 tt                                       E                t            $              2             8         a
!J DwadmatDeatb
V AC - goaet Cwww S- EA                       EEnoqMSwA C  Fw -l o
V  I * Pmbbma_m or~        f  2 *   wa*;         3  5 MW  8beWS
dJ It -sSa; 2g-dlw.  t-0 Olbd_al
F  F- Fw  M- "          u    I % P.Plfc  T- eTdmiui
5,JSSNUmomU5 _ dF    F -m u0.



45
Annex I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1160-CE)
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
Financial Aspects
1.        WIthout Project - SetWlees Income. The SAR estimated the without project income
of a settler in 1980 at Rs 3,000 p.a. Inflated by projected real increases in wages from 1980 to 1990
of 21% (or 2% annually) this came to Rs 3,633 p.a., plus Rs 1,440 in food and kerosene stamps,
making a total of Rs 5,073 p.a.
2.        The SAR gives 1980 wage levels as Rs 14.0/workday in the slack period and Rs
19.0/workday for the peak period. Assuming an average of Rs 16.5/workday in 1980, the basic
income of Rs 3,000 in 1980 would be equivalent to 182 workdays.
3.        Without project setder income in 1991 constant Rupee terms is therefore calculated
as follows:
182 workdays at average farm labor wage of Rs 65/workday = Rs 11,830.
Value of food and kerosene stamps Rs 1,440 x 2.51 (inflator)  Rs 3,614.
Estimated total income per settler = Rs 15,444/year.
4.        Farm Budgets. The SAR presented three farm budgets for new settlers: for a non-
mechanized 1 ha plot of double-cropped broadcast paddy, for a mechanized 1 ha plot of double-
cropped transplanted paddy; and for a non-mechanized 1 ha plot of broadcast paddy in the Maha
season followed by 0.81 ha of upland crops (groundnuts, cowpeas and maize) in the Yala season.
All these models have a 0.2 ha house plot.
5.        Table 1 presents the non-mechanized, broadcast paddy case. The table shows SAR
values and physical quantities from the SAR revalued at 1991 prices. It also shows the results of
the Bench Mark Survey (BMS) carried out by the project consultants for Yala 1991 and Maha
1991/92.
6.        Costs and benefits in Table 1 are based as far as possible on the SAR. Iowever, the
SAR only gives summarized cost categories, for example "operating costs" (Annex 4, Table 3), and
indicates fertilizer use with project of 450 kg per season without providing any details on the type
of fertilizers used. Details of fertilizer use and seed costs are, therefore, mission estimates.



46
Annex 1
7.          A similar comparison with the BMS was carried out for the mechanized, transplanted
paddy case. However, since only a minority of settlers presently transplant, this case is not strictly
comparable with the BMS findings.
8.          The results of the two farm budgets are summarized below:
Net Beneflis Before Financing at Full Development
1)           .(2)            (3)            (4)             (5)
Without     With Project   % Increase      BMS Data        % Increase
________________    ProJet                       (2) over (1)                   (4) over (1)
.......................... ........ PRs/Settler Fanily ........... 
Non-Mechanized
Broadcast Case
SAR                    5,073         26,850          +429             -              -
SAR in 1991 prices     15,444        30,170          +95           31,973           +107
Mechanized
Tasplanted Case
SAR                    5,073         30,523          +502             -              -
SAR in 1991 prices     1A,444        37,519          +143          31,973           +107
9.          As the table shows, the increase in settler incomes as a result of the project has been
less dramatic than projected at appraisal. Incomes have probably about doubled compared with a
five- or six-fold increase projected in the SAR.
10.         Table 1 shows that there is a reasonably close similarity between the SAR estimates
revalued at 1991 prices and the BMS results in respect of total benefits (value of production -
including subsistence consumption, and off-farm income); total costs (excluding family labor); and
net benefits before financing. However, as Table 1 also shows, there are significant differences in
the composition of costs. The SAR assumed application of 450 kg of fertilizers per season. The
BMS indicates a total of 429 kg used during the whole year.
11.         Several factors may have contributed to this difference. First, it seems that the SAR
assumed unrealistically heavy fertilizer applications. As the agronomist on the June 1986 project
supervision mission noted, there were grounds for doubting whether the Agricultural Department's
standard fertilizer recommendations were not too heavy for the paddy cultivars being used. Second,
a reason put forward in supervision and progress reports is lack of credit, either as a result of non-
creditworthiness due to past defaulting, or as a result of leasing of land.1' A final reason
"' As reported by Dr. M.U. Tennakoon in "Correlation between the degree of conumercialisation of the farms and the
participation in official credit schemes as well as the extent to which commercial agriculture is constrained by lack of
access to, or inability to make use of official sources of credit", June 1991.



47
Annex I
mentioned by many field staff is the reduction in fertilizer use by settlers following the abolition of
the 50% fertilizer subsidy in January 1990.
12.       A further important difference in the cost structures is in labor use. The SAR
estimated total labor use 'with project' at 100 workdays/ha/season for broadcast paddy and 109
workdays/ha for transplanted paddy. In both cases the SAR assumed that about 4% of labor
requirements would be hired and the balance provided by the family. The BMS shows total labor
use in the year of 231 days of which 109 days, or almost half, are either hired or borrowed."1
13.        Significant differences between the SAR and the BMS also exist in the use of draft
power. The SAR assumes 8 days of animal draft power per season or 16 days per year, whereas
the BMS shows 21 days of animal power plus 6 days of tractor power. As a result, the cost of draft
power in the BMS is more than double the SAR cost in 1991 prices.
14.        The significant expenditures on hired labor and draft power and the predominance of
broadcast paddy are generally indicative of shortage of family labor and marked seasonal peaks in
labor requirements. While hiring of around half the labor required for paddy cultivation is fairly
common practice in Sri Lanka, a further factor in System C could be the relative newness of the
settlement and the land tenure situation. The report of Dr. Tennekoon2' showed that about a
quarter of the settlers had income from land outside System C and that 18% of the land was leased.
The non-farm interests of settlers also show up in the information on non-farm income in the BMS.
Of the quite small off-farm income of Rs 2,103, about two-thirds is derived from salaries and
businesses. Also, in addition to these economic reasons, social ties with families or family members
in the area from which the settlers came means that some families are only partially settled, and
some or all members spend part of the year elsewhere.
15.        Surveys of farms included in the Model Unit Program could be expected to show a
rather more advanced system of agriculture than that reflected by the BMS. However, MUP only
started in April 1990 and the survey covering the 11 model units conducted in December 1990 -
January 1991 (for Maha 1989/90 and Yala 1990) and published in July 19923' shows a picture
similar to the BMS. In fact, the BMS and MLUP surveys indicate that although the proportion of
land transplanted has declined from about 40% in Yala 1990 and Maha 1990/91 to only 18% in
Yala 1991 and about 25% in Maha 1991/92, and fertilizer use has fallen slightly, paddy yields show
a small increase. The MUP survey also found no significant difference in yield between varieties
and long and short maturing cultivars--which raises the question again of the quality of the varieties
available ( para 11).
16.        Other cropping possibilities presented in the SAR have not materialized.  The
proposals for relatively small areas (330 ha each) of coffee, pepper and cocoa were not strictly
Traditional labor sharing, known as auham. The total of 109 days was made up of 64 workdays of hired and 45
workdays of auham labor.
2/ Op. cit., pam. 11.
3/  Model Unit Progrm. Farm Interview Survey July 1992.



48
Annex 1
appropriate for the environment of System C. Also, the mixed cropping system proposed of
broadcast paddy in Maha and upland crops in Yala has not been adopted. The experience with
cashew and fuelwood plantations is discussed in Part I.
Economic Aspects
17.       Economic re-evaluation of the project was undertaken, following to the extent possible
the approach employed in the SAR.
18.       Spontaneous development of the area "without project" was taken to be as projected
at appraisal, namely eventual development of a cropped area of 23,100 ha of cowpeas or other crops
and 6,100 ha of paddy. No details on phasing of development in the "without project" situation were
provided in the SAR beyond the fact that net benefits were shown to increase up to 1996 and to
be constant thereafter (Annex 4, Table 8). The rate of build-up in net benefits "without project" was
therefore used as the rate of build-up of paddy and cowpeas/other crops area.
19.       For the "with project" situation, paddy area, yields and production as well as area of
other field crops (OFC) grown in the irrigated area are as given in Table 2. Projections are PCR
mission estimates.
20.       Farmgate prices of paddy and fertilizers are based on Bank statistics of world market
prices for 1983-1991 and Bank price forecasts for 1992-2005 (dated August 10, 1992)-Tables 3 and
4. Other output and input prices used are given in Table 6. Quantities of inputs used per year are
derived from the BMS results (Table 1) for seed (209 kg), fertilizers (138 kg N, 34 kg P and 50 kg
K), crop chemicals (4.77 liters and 0.45 kg of granules), labor (109 workdays of hired or borrowed
labor and 122 workdays of family labor), animal power (21 days), tractor power (6 days) and
miscellaneous items (Rs 1,621, in economic prices). The BMS indicates a cropping intensity of 1.88
and this figure has been used in arriving at a cost per cultivated hectare (from Table 2) in
estimating total paddy production costs (Table 9).
21.       Costs and benefits for OFC grown in the irrigated area are based on the mix of crops
grown in Yala during 1988-1992 shown in the project consultants' report11 giving an average value
of production of Rs 68,740/ha, production costs of Rs 29,830/ha, and a net margin of Rs 38,910/ha.
22.       Fuelwood plantation establishment costs are included in the capital costs. Maintenance
costs from now until harvest are assumed to be negligible. Total area of plantation is taken as 1,202
ha, as reported by the consultantsY Production is assumed to be 150 m3 on a 10-year rotation.
Output has been valued at its kerosene replacement equivalent price.
I/ Status Report on Implementation of Mahawei Geaga Development Project System C, September 1992, page 38.
2/ Status Report, page 19.



49
Annex 1
23.       Cashew plantation costs are also included in the capital costs. The number of cashew
trees is as reported by the Resident Project Manageres office in November 1990, totalling 30,120.
Yield is assumed to increase from 1 kg/tree in Year 5 to 8 kgltree from Year 10 onwards.
24.       Development of the 0.2 ha homestead plots is a significant benefit of the project.
Production consists of a wide mix of crops, including coconuts, banana and other tree crops as well
as maize, chillies and vegetables. Based on the BMS, the net benefit per homestead plot has been
assumed to increase from Rs 400 in the first year of settlement to Rs 1,800 per year from the fourth
year onwards. The number of settlers is as given in the Summazy Implementation Schedule, Part
IU/4C.
25.       No livestock production benefits were assumed in the SAR. Statistics provided by the
government's vaccination program show 1992 numbers of cattle and buffaloes in System C totalling
20,000 animals.
26.       Of this total, catde account for about 18,000 and buffaloes the remaining 2,000.
Populations in Zones 3-6 are reported to be 7,900 cattle and about 1,400 buffaloes. However, since
significant cattle populations were present in the project area before the project started and since
much of subsequent development occurred largely unrelated to the project, these cannot be assumed
to be project benefits.
27.       However, one aspect of livestock development is clearly a project benefit. In 1981, a
program was started to provide draft aninals to settlers in System C, together with extension and
vaccination programs for foot and mouth and haemorrhagic septicaemia. In 1983, the program was
modified to distribution of dairy cows. As a result, some 22 milk producer societies have been
formed, and dairy cow numbers are estmated at about 850 owned by settlers, plus a similar number
of cows on government breeding farms. lhis appears to be a well conceived initiative which could
improve agricultural production and farmers' incomes in the future. Estimates of costs and benefits
for the dairy farming operation supported by MEA have therefore been included in the economic
analysis.
28.       The analysis assumed dairy cow numbers increasing from 150 in 1983 to 1,700 from
1992 onwards. Annual milk production per cow is assumed to be 1,000 liters. Milk is valued at the
import parity price (Table 5). Additional income per cow from production of young stock and
manure has been estimated at Rs 2,500 and Rs 200 per year, respectively.
29.       CapIal and recurrent costs have been converted to constant 1991 Rupees by applying
the inflation indices for local and foreign currency given in Table 7 and are presented in Table 8.
Labor costs have been adjusted by the LCF of 0.9, and all local expenditures (including labor) by
the SCF of 0.9. As in the analysis of the SAR, costs included in the re-evaluation represent 50%
of the cost of the transbasin canal and one-third of the cost of main roads and socia' infrastructure.
The cost of technical assistance and monitoring has also been reduced (by 20%) to exclude t1le
portion not appliable to Zones 3-6, and any costs associated with Zone 2. A reduction of 3% was
made to all costs as detailed by MECA to allow for govermment taxes.



so
Annex I
30.       For the base case economic re-evaluation the area benefitting from the project was
taken to be that developed in Zones 3-6 of System C.
31.       Results of Economic Re-evaluation. Project benefits, costs and net benefits achieved
to date and projected for the future based on the assumptions described above, are shown in Table
8. The resulting economic rate of return (ERR) is 3.9%. Inclusion of benefits from the additional
irrigated area in Zone 2 (annual cultivated area of 545 ha) would increase the ERR to 4.1%.
Benefits from this area were included in the SAR, but without inclusion of the corresponding capital
costs.
32.       Although higher than anticipated costs and slower than projected rate of development
are factors in this disappointing result, the aspect of overriding importance is the much lower than
expected price of paddy. This eventuality was anticipated by supervision staff in November 1990
when it was stated that: "The internal rate of return for the entire project, which will be re-
estunated during the preparation of the PCR, will therefore be substantially lower ..... and may
indeed be marginal due to the sharply lower world market price for rice, as estimated in 1985 in
.he PCR for the completed Mahaweli II project".
33.        Recalculation of the ERR using the November 12, 1980, price projections of the SAR
in constant 1991 terms for paddy" and fertilizers in fact gives an ERR of 17%, quite close to the
18% calculated at appraisal.
34.       Sensitivity tests of the base case show that a 10% increase in benefits would increase
the ERR to 5.5%, and a 20% increase to 6.9%. This could happen as a result of higher paddy
yields or prices, greater production of higher value crops, and increases in livestock production. On
the other hand, a 10% increase in costs would reduce the ERR to 2.3%, and a 20% increase to
0.7%. Adequate maintainmnce of irrigation infrastructure will therefore be of greatest importance,
to avoid the danger of heavy expenditure in repair and reconstruction of canals and structures.
The difference between the Barks rice price forecast of November 12, 1980, and the actual price in 1991 is as below:
:r :>' > -  :     -    : -, --1
.   . < . .... . .   U -   .   X $   . -       * -              314



Project Completion Report
SRI LANKA: Third Mahaweli Ganga Development Project (Cr. 1166-CE)
Amex 1: Financial and Economic Re-Evaluation
Tabte 1.    on-RMechanized and aroadcast Case with Project ]/
SAu           -                        SAR Physical Quantities at 1991 Prices            Bench Nark Survey for Yat. 199  arJ  _da 19912 v/
(as)                                                  (Rs)                                                        (Rs)
Inftls
Value of Productfhn
Paddy 8.1 tons at Rs 4,524/ton                 36,644   at Rs 6,378/ton a/                            51,662   7.51 tons at Re 6,378 2/                          48,025
Homestead Plot Production                         325   x 2.51 /                                         816   Other Field Crops and Peremials                    2,774
Rental and Hire Income 391                         5,255
Off-Fanr  Inome                                   725   x 2.51 W                                       1,820                                                      2,103
Total Inflow                              37,694                                                54,298                                                      58,157
Outf low
GP"-stir* Costs (per season)                                                                                   Operating Costs (anual)
Seed, 100 kg at Rs 5.43 if                        543   at Rs 7.65/kg                                    765   209 kg at Rs 7.98/kg 11/                           1,6469
Fertilizer J/ i/S
- 90 H at Rs 15.933/kg N                        1,434   at Rs 22.891/kg N                              2,060
- 24 P at Re 13.149/kg P                          316   at Re 22.404/kg P                                538
* 36 K at Rs 6.515/kg K                           235   at Rs 10.883/kg K                                392
1.985                                                 2,.90   429 kg at Rs 10.36/kg Mj/                           4,444
copmwiding and Other Costs C' 21X)          422                                                    635
Sub-Totat FertilIzers                      2,407                                                  3.625
Pesticides                                        400   x 2.51 6/                                      1,004   4.77 Liters and 0.45 kg                             1,393    t,
Labor 4 workdays at Rs 23/workday                  92   at Rs 65/workday V/                              260   109.1 workdays at Rs 65/workday 11/ 1V             7,095    _
Animat Power 8 days at Rs 23/day                  184   at Rs 255.2/day i/                             2,042   21.3 days at Rs 255.2/day 11/ 12/                  5,436
Tractor 6.2 days at Rs 651.5/day >j 12/            4,039
Mfscellaneous                                     406   x 2.51 I/                                      1,019                                                       1,801
Other Field Crops Operating Cost                     277
SubTotaL per Seao                          4,032                                                  8,715
Total Operatirg Costs (x 2                 8,870                                                 19.173                                                     26,154
+ 102 Contircies)
Crop tnsurane                                     356   x 2.51 §/                                        894
Water Charges                                     500   x 2.51 _/                                      1,255   0 and M Fee                                            30
Land Payment                                    1,118   x 2.51 6/                                      2,806
Total Outftlo                             10,844                                                 24,128                                                     26,1864
Net Benefit before Financing                   26,850                                                 30 170                                                     31,973
1/  1 ha irrigated paddy plot with 0.2 ha house plot.
2/ Annex 4, Table 3. Crop input requirements from Annex 4, Table 2 and irnp  prices from Amex 4, Table 1.
3/ SAR does not give seed price. Assumed to be 20% above paddy market prices.
/ SAR does not give fertilizer usage by nutrient but only total weight of material (450 kg). Nutrient apptication assumed Is Department of Agriculture
recoommended rate as reported in Agronomic Observations of June 1986 project supervision mission.
J Average price for 1991 from Benchmark Survey.
6 Domestic inflator (see Table 7).
p   Fertilizer prices:  urea and triple superphosphate Rs 10.53/kg, muriate of potash Rs 9.73/kg in 1991 prices.
8/ HASL, Mahawali Ganga Development Project, System C, Monthly Progress Report, September 1992.
2/ Yale 1991 yield of 3.4 tons/ha harvested at average price of Re 6.29/kg, and Naha 1991/92 yield of 4.13 tons/ha and average price of Rs 6.45/kg.
1Q/ From animals, machinery and labor.
i/  Unit cost is result of dividing total cost by quantity employed.
12J Includes hired and borrowed.



Project Completion Report
SRI LANKA: Third Mahaweli Ganga DeveLopment Project (Cr. 1166-CE)
Armex 1: Financial and Economic Re-Evaluation
Tabte 2. Py Area, Tield and Prodwction and Other Field Crops Area _I
PADDY                                           OFC                    PADDY                   PADDY
Irrigable            Cuttivated Area                 Harvested Area            Cultivated               Yield SZ              Production
Area S                                                                          Area
Naha     I      rata            Naha            Yala           Yata            Nlaha           Yata            Touta
_________   _________(1 a)                                                           _(tons/ha)                     -   (tons)
1983                   380             287                             274                                          1.24                              340
1984                 2,300           1,730             211           1,654             202              24          1.T6           3.04             3,524
1985                 2,200           1,641           1,087           1,574           1,039             58           3.98           4.36            10,796
1986                 5,700           4,278           4,197           4,089           4,012             94           3.86           4.02            31,913
1987                 6,850           5,137           5,312           4,910           5,078             70           4.80            4.30           45,405
1988                10,500           8,214           7,032           7,852           6,722             314          4.62            4.02           63,297
1989                10,500           7,920           7,831           7,571           7,486             576          4.79           4.68            71,297
1990                13,000          10,147          10,132           9,700           9,685             443          4.47            4.32           85,197
1991                14,494          11,355          10,903          10,854          10,422            677           4.72           4.49            98,028
1992                16,136          12,261          11,000          11,720          10,516            952           4.80            4.50          103,578
1993                17,683          13,300          13,100          12,715          12,524           1,000          4.90            4.50          118,662
1994                17,683          15,000          14,000          14,340          13,384           1,000          4.90            4.50          130,494
1995                17,683          15,683          14,600          14,993          13,958           1,000          5.00            4.60          139,172
1996                17,683          15,683          14,600          14,993          13,958           1,000          5.00            4.60          139,172       IA
1997                17,683          15,683          14,600          14,993          13,958           1,000          5.10            4.70          142,067
1998                17,683          15,683          14,600          14,993          13,958           1,000          5.10            4.70           142,067
1999                17,683          15,683          14,600          14,993          13,958           1,000          5.20            4.80           144,962
2000                17,683          15,683          14,600          14,993          13,958           1,000          5.20            4.80           144,962
SAR Target          18,500          18,500          15,910               .                           2,590          4.67 d/        4.67 1I t60,695
Smrce: Years 1983 up to lNaha 1991/92 (Naha 1992) from the Office of the Resident Project tanager, System 'C#.
~fl    System C, Zones 3-6.
yI    Figures for 1983-1990 are mission estimates.
#/   rYild of harvested area (harvested area a cultivated area x 0.956).
g     Yield of cultivated area, equivalent to 4.9 tons on a harvested area basis.



Project Coqletion Report
SRI LAMKA: Third Mahaweli Ganga Develoopent Project (Cr. 1166-CE)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-Evaluation
Tabte 3.   Ecordic Price of Paddy (tpert Parity)
Riee flI          Riee          Gility Adi. 1  Freight anr   I          c.i.f. Cotosbo  /         | Port/Trans &  |          Fas ate Price
Const 1985       Canst 199"         cx 0.8)    I   Insurance   I                                        Precis. _/   |
ice          Pad0v _t
USS/ton                                                                        91o Ru/o
1983             273              406              325               25               350             14,490            -160            14,330            9,744
1984             254              378               302              25               327             13,538            -160            13,378            9,097
1985             216              321               257              25               282             11,675            -160            11,515            7,830
1906             178              265               212              25               237              9,812            -160             9,652           6.563
1967             178              264              211               25               236              9,770            -160             9,610           6.535
1988             217              322               258              25               283             11,716            -160            11,556           7,858
1989             232              34S               276              25               301             12,461            .160            12.301           8.365
1990             197              293               234               25              259             10,723            -160            10,S63            7,183
1991             211              314               251               25              276             11,426            -160            11,266            7661
1992             192              286               229               25              254             10.516            -160            10,356            7.042
1993             176              262               210               25              235              9,729            -160             9.S69            6,S07
1994             175               260              208               25              233              9,646            -160             9.486            6.451
1995             178              265               212               25              237              9,812            -160             9,652            6,563
2000             172               256              205               25              230              9.522            -160             9.362            6,3"6
2005 oaards          161               240              192               25              217              8,984            -160             8,824            6,000
I/          World Bank, International Economics Department, International Trade Oivisfon, August 10, 1992 (and earlier).
Converted to Sri Lanka Rupees at the rate of USS1 n Rs41.4.
si          Derived from SAR of National Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Report No. 9425-CE), Annex 12, Table 1, eonsisting of port charges (Re 250),
transport to wholesale point (Rs 400), transport from farmgate to wholesale point and processing (Rs -890), but using an SCF of 0.9 rather than 0.85.
df          Conversion of paddy to rice at 1:0.68 (source as in footnote J/ above).



Project Coapletion Report
SRI LANKA: Third Mahaweli Ganga Development Project (Cr. 1166-CE)
Annex 1:   Financiat and Economic Re-Evaluation
Table 4. Economic Price of fertilizers
U1EA                                                      TFWRE SlPERPHOSMILATE                                                MU66TIE cF POTASH
nco-         Cint          c|LL      Faia cJ         N/fd/         Cot    |      Cond          c.l       Fanngi.J       Pflg/         cmt    .       en      .      Il.     Fa.t           K
VW18        Ism        ciambom                                    1      _18  19to     r    On fII                                   1 91           8 l
8LSjSOII        |              OIon              Fb                USS/So                       /ton                Pb                 JSS/Al                 .bx/-                . b
1983            134          19S          8,274        10,174        22.1          133           1S8         9,232        10,132         21.6          74           110         5,588         6,489         108
1984            173          257         11.675        12,575        27.3          132           19s         9,191        10,091        21.5           84           12e         6.25t         7,151        11.9
t9s5            138          203          9,420        10,339        22.5          121           181         8,wa          9,428         20.1          84           125         8.210         7,110         11,8
1988             91          135          6,624         7,524        16.4          103           153         7,369         B,289         17.8          58           87          4.637         5,537         92
1987             90          134          6,583         f.493        16.3          107           158         7,576         8,478         18.0          53           79          4.308         5,20e         8.7
198            112          168          7,907         6,807        19.1          114           t70         8,073         8,973         19.1          63           94          4,927         5.827         9.7
1969             B6          143          8,955         7,85s        17.1          104           15t         7,452         8,352         17.8          72           107         5,465         8,3e5         t0.6
1990            106          160          7,659         8,559        18.6           90           134         6,563         7,483         15.9          67           100         5,175         6,075         10.1
1901            l1e          172          8,158         SW6          19.7           6s           133         6,541         7,441         15.8          73           109         5.548         6,44a         10.7
1992            9s           146          7,079         7,979        17.3           62           122         e,0o8         alg8e         14.9          73           109         5.54B         6,448        10.7
1993             99          147          7,121         8,021        17.4           65           12e         6,251         7,151         15.2          74           110         5.589         6,489         10.8
1994            102          151          7,286         8,186        17.8           90           134         8,sa3         7,483        1Mg            75           '11         S,830         6.530         109  
9955            105          156          7,493         6,393         18.2          92           t37         6,707         7,607         16.2          74           110         5,589         6,489         10.8
2000            l18          173          8,197         9,097         19.8          90           134         6,583         7,483         15.9          71           108          5,423        0.323         10.5
2005            109           182         7,742         8,642         18.8          88           131          8,458        7,358         15.7          71           106          5.423        e.323         10.5
lt W onit Internatonal Econondics DepaCtmt, IntnmatIonl Trade DMtsbon, Augusl 10, 1992 (and e61le.
1               Including US$25 frI,ghl and InSUranc; coe*td to1tSr Loft Rupee. at US$1 *FtR4lA.
cJ              Alt#b addton poft chtgeas 0a 250), tranpot (l 400), handlIng to l1armgate (. 200), using an SC  of 0.9 rilher than 0.85 (see Table 3).
Assurnthlg 46% N.
Asstrtfg 47% P.
!/              Assumil nD% K



Project Completion Report
SRI LANKA: Third Mahaweli Ganga Development Project (Cr. 1166-CE)
Annex 1: Financiat and Economic Re-EvaLuation
Tabte 5.   Economic Price of Mitk (Iqmort Parity)
Skim Milk Powder                      Butter Oil
(USS/ton)
f.o.b. Western Europe 31                                1,748                               1,700
Freight                                                    95                                  95
Insurance at 1.5% of c. and f.                             21                                 21
c.i.f. Colambo                                          1,864                               1,816
(Rs'O00/ton)
c.i.f. Cotombo §I                                       77.17                               75.18
Port handting and transport 5/                           1.89                                1.89
Storage and agency charges _/                            1.53                                1.53
Price ex-store at reconstituting plant                  80.5:                               78.60
For UHT milk with 3.5% fat and 8.5% solids, not fat, the ingredient cost would therefore be:
(Rs/kg [or titer])
0.035 x Rs78.60                                                                      2.75
0.0875 _/ x Rs 80.59                                                                 7.05
9.80
Reconstituting cost                                                                  1.00
Ready for packing, in bulk, liquid, at factory                                      10.80
Less:  Raw milk processing costs                                                   0.80
Mitk society expenses                                                       0.40
Transport and handling                                                     1.10
farmgate price                                                             8.50
a/       World Dairy Situation, May 1992, USDA.
At US$1 = Rs 41.4.
c/       Rs 2,100 x SCF of 0.9.
d/        Rs 1,700 x SCF of 0.9.
e/        Including 3% moisture.



56
Project Cotpletton Report
SRI LANKA: Third Nahaweti Dewtlopent Project (Cr. 1166-CE)
Ante 1: Finamcial and Economic Re-Evatuation
Table 6. Prices Used In Finwiiat sd Ecamic Aitsysis
(Farate, 1991 Rs)
Flandul                Eeounmk
Paddy                       Rs/ton              6,78             6,000 - 9,100  (able 3)
Chillies                    RS/kg                  85                     85
Onions                      Rs/kg                  12                     12
Cowpeas                     Rs/kg                  16                     16
Green gram                  RS/kg                  22                     22
Brinjal                     Rs/kg                   6                      6
Cashew nuts (in             Rs/kg               22-36                     26
shell)
Fueliood                    Rs/m3                   -                    336  (12 gallons of kerosene at Rts
28/gallon)
Mfilk                       Rs/litor           7-540                      8.5  (Table S)
Homn .stead plot         Rs/0.2 ha pia          1,800                   1,800  (Bench Mark Survey)
Inputs
Paddy seed                  Rs/kg             7.7 -80         1.5 x sale price
Fertilizers
N                       Rs/kg                22.9              16.3 - 273  (Table 4)
P                       Rs/kg                22.4               14.9 - 21.5  (Table 4)
K                       Rs/kg                10.9               9.2 -11.9  (Table 4)
Crop chemicals             Rs/ha p.a            1,393                   1,380  (Local cost component of 10%
adjusted by SCF of 0.9)
labor                     Ps/workday               65                   52.65  (Adjusted by LCF of 0.9 and
SCF of 0.9)
Animal power                Rs/day              2SS2                    229.7  (Adjusted by SCF of 0.9)
Tractor                     Rs/day              651.5                   6515
Miscellancous              Rs/ha pa.            1,801                   1,621  (Adjusted by SCF of 0.9)



57
Project Conptetion Report
SRI LANKA: Third Mahawell Ganga Development Project (Cr. 1166-CE)
Annex 1: Financial and Ecomic Re-Evaluation
Table 7. Inflaftion Indices for L..:al and Foreign Exchange Costs
Wholesale A/      Derived Rs     MUV k/Iadex   Derived FE
Price Index       Inflator                       Inflator
1985 = 100                       1985 = 100
1982            75.1             2.51            103.72         1.43
1983            939              2.01            101.36          1.47
1984            117.9             1.60           99.20          1.50
1985            100.0             1.89           100.00         1.49
1986            97.0              1.94           117.91         1.26
1987            110.0             1.71           129.51          1.15
1988            129.6             1.45           138.94         1.07
1989            1413              133            137.97          1.08
1990            172.7             1.09           145.78          1.02
1991            188.5             1.00           148.74          1.00
1992           200.0 c/          0.94            152.91         0.97
International Monetary Fund (IMF), International Financial Statistics.
World Bank, International Economics Department, International
Trade Division, August 10, 1992. Unit value index in US$ terms of
manufactures exported from the G-5 countries (France, Germany, Japan,
U.K, and U.SA) weighted proportionally to the countries' exports
to the developing countries.
S/      Estimate based on data for part of the year, from IMF, International
Fmancial Statistics.



58
Project Completlon Report
SRI LANKA: Third Mahawell Ganga Development Proaeet (Cr. 1168-CE)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-Evaluation
Table S: Economic Cash Flow (Re Million)
1982    1983    1984    1985    186        1g87 ?   198     1989     1990    t191
A. PROJECT BENEFITS
Paddy                            -      3.3    32.3    84.8   209.4   296.6   497.4   596.4    612.0    751.0
Other Field Crops                -        -      1.8      4.0      6.6      4.8    21.6    30.5       30.0    46.6
Fuelwood                             -             -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -
Cashew                                -            -        -       -        -        -        -      0.1      0.3
Homestead Plot                   -        -      1.9      3.9      8.9    11.1    13.1       16.5    17.2    19.4
Dairying                         _       1.8     3.8      6.8      7.4      9.3    11.2      13.0    t0.1      18.6
TOTAL BENEFITS                   -      5.1    39.6    98.0   230.2   320.7   543.3    665.0    675.4   838.8
B. PROJECT COSTS
B1. Capital Costs
Right Bank Transbasin C.      126.7   231.1    226.2       -       7.0    -0.8      0.3      16.7    -1.4        -
Main and Branch Canals           -    210.3    83.4   229.2    193.9   65.8   372.7    817.9            -        -
Irrigat. &Dr. Dev.             23.8    68.0    186.2    32.2   243.3   166.3    191.4    131.3    107.4    138.9
Soc. & Admin. Infrast.          5.8    28.0    16.5   154.1    31.7    41.0    32.5    23.6           29.4    40.7
Equipment                      20.8    26.8      2.6        -     27.7      2.2    80.1      55.8    83.5      3.9
Roads                            -        -        -     18.4      8.5      4.6      5.4     7.8      2.4    14.7
Cashew & Fuetwood               1.4    85.7        -     23.0    43.5    101.6       8.4     21.6   -21.1      9.3
Tech. Ass. & Mon.              14.7    15.3    29.1      31.2    34.9    59.6    76.7    124.5    54.7    99.5
SUBTOTAL 1                    193.2   065.2    544.0   818.1    590.5   1030.2    76.5   099M.0    264.9   305.0
B2. Recurrent Costs
Staff Sala. &Trav.               -     19.3      3.6   119.3    76.1    108.6    97.3    114.0    102.5    104.8
VehiclesOP                     18.7       -        -     12.3    57.9    41.7    31.9        11.0    17.1      11.4
Equipment OP                     -        -        -     16.8      2.2      1.1    36.0      8.5      6.9    -04
Materials                        -       1.7       -      0.2      1.1      5.6     2.1      2.8      3.6      3.3
Other OP                         -        -        -      2.3    26.5    30.8        4.1     7.2      14.3     7.6
SUBTOTAL2                      18.7    21.0      3.6   160.9   163.8    187.8    171.4    143.5    143.4   126.7
B3. Crop Production Costs
Paddy Prod. Costs                -      4.7    32.6    44.4    131.3   181.7   244.9   249.5    319.4    354.0
OFC Prod. Costs                  -        -      0.7      1.8      2.8      2.1      9.4     17.2     13.2    20.2
Dairying Prod. Costs             -      0.6      1.2      1.9      2.6      3.1      3.7     4.5      SA       6.2
B4. Net Benefits Forgone
Net Benefits Foregone          14.1    14.1     17.2    18.4    15.3    18.6    28.9    34.8         23.9    29.0
TOTAL COSTS                   226.0    705.6   659.3   1033.5   906.2   1401.4   1224.8   1448.5   760.2   841.1
C. TOTAL NET BENEFITS          -226.0  -700.5  -559.7  -935.S   -76.0  -1080.7   -81.5  -783.5   -84.8    -S.3
Note: The error pointed out in Section 2.0 of Part II (paddy benefits) has been co rected.



59
Projet Completion Report
SRI LANKA: Third Mahawell Ganga Delopment Poect (Cr. 1166ee)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-Evauaton
Table 8: Economic Cash Flow (Re Million)
t992    1993    1994    1995    1966    1997    1668         199 2000-04  200541
A. PROJECT BENEFITS
Paddy                        729.4   77.1    841.8   913.4   888.0   904.4   904.4   922.8   622.8    8893
Other Field Crops             65.4    68.7    68.7    68.7    66.7    68.7    66.7    e8 7          68.7    88.7
Fuelwood                         -       -        -        -       -        -        -      6.0      6.0      6.0
Cashew                         0.7      1.3      2.2     3.2      4.2      5.0     6.8      6.2      8.3      8.3
Homestead Plot                20.1    23.6    25.3    26.1    26.1    26.1    26.1    26.1    26.1    26.1
Dairying                      21.0    21.0    21.0    21.0    21.0    210     21.0    21.0    21.0           2t0
TOTAL BENEFITS               836.6   8816.    958.9  1032.4  1006.0   1026.2  1026.0   1060.8   1060.9   897.9
B. PROJECT COSTS
a1. Capital Costs
Right Bank Tranebasin C.         -       -        -        -       -        -                 - _              -
Main and Branch Canals          -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -
Irrigat. & Dr. Dev.          100.5    42.9    21.8         -       -        -        -       -        -        -
Soc. & Admin. lnfrast.        23.1    24.6      9.6        -       -        -        -        -
Equipment                      0.7      0.7     0.7        -       -        -        -        -
Roads                         14.5      8.1      1.5       -       -        -        -        -       -        -
Cashew & Fuelwood              8.7      6.8      3.9       -       -        -        -        -
Tech. Ass. & Mon.            106.8    91.6       1.5 
SUBTOTAL 1                   254.3   173.7    38.9         -       -        -        -        -       -        -
82. Recurrent Costs
Staff Sala.&Trav.             64.5    79.8    61.4    61.4    61.4    61.4    61.4    61.4.    61.4    61A
Vehicles OP                   12.8    15.1    15.1     15.1         15.1     15.1     15.1     15.1     16.1    15.1
Equipment OP                   3.3      0.8       -        -       -        -        -        -
Materials                      3.1      5.6      8.0     8.0      8.0      8.0     8.0      8.0      8.0      8.0
Other OP                      27.4    24.4    20.4    20.4    20.4    204          204     204      20.4    20.4
SUBTOTAL2                    111.1    125.7   104.9   104.9   104.9   104.9   104.9    1044    104.9   104.9
83. Crop Production Costs
Paddy Prod. Costs            364.2   412.4   454.4   475.9   475.f   476.9   475.9   475.9   475.9   475.9
OFC Prod. Costs               28.4    29.8    29.8    29.8    29.8    29.8    29.8    29.8    29.8    29.8
Dairying Prod. Costs           7.0      7.0      7.0     7.0      7.0      7.0     7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0
84. Net Benefits Forgone
Net Benefits Foregone         24.1    18.8    18.5    20.0    18.3    180          18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0
TOTAL COSTS                 789.1    767.4   653.6   637.6  6e3.9   635.6    05.6   636.6   635.6   686.6
C. TOTAL NET BENEFITS           47.5   119.3   305.4   394.8   370.1    3898.    390.4   415.2   415.3   362.3



