Document of
The World Bank                      FILE CPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3082-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
June 1, 1981
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1            =   Rs 18.0
Rs 1            =   US$0.0556
Rs 1 million    =   US$55,560
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)              =   0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)              =   1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)   =   640 ac (259 ha)
1 foot (ft)              =   30.5 centimeters (cm)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GDP       -    Gross Domestic Product
MW        -    Megawatt
M         -    Million
MA        -    Mahaweli Authority
MDB       -    Mahaweli Development Board
MEA       -    Mahaweli Economic Agency
GLOSSARY
chena        slash and burn or "shifting" agriculture
district =   the first subdivision in the country for Government
administrative purposes (22 districts in Sri Lanka)
dry zone =   northern and eastern two-thirds of Sri Lanka
ganga    =   major river
maha     =   northeast monsoon season (October to February)
oya          small river
paddy    =   unhusked rice
tank     5   reservoir for local rainwater storage
wet zone =   southwestern one-third of Sri Lanka, including
Colombo, the Capital
yala     5   southwest monsoon season (April to September)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Amount:              Special Drawing Rights 73.3 M (US$90.0 M equivalent).
Terms:               Standard.
Co-financiers:       The Government of Japan and the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development.
Project              The proposed project would represent IDA's first involve-
Description:      ment in area development under the Accelerated Mahaweli
Program. It would encompass development for irrigation
and settlement of the downstream area to be served by the
Victoria Dam Project, currently under implementation. The
project would include: (i) completion of the Minipe Right
Bank Transbasin Canal scheduled to supply full irrigation
facilities to the System C developmental area and supple-
mental irrigation to System B, located in Sri Lanka's
intermediate and dry zones; (ii) provision of irrigation
and drainage infrastructure, land clearing and on-farm
development, social and managerial infrastructure, fuel-
wood and cashew plantations, and settlement services in
the northern part of System C, including about 18,500 ha
of newly irrigated area; and (iii) technical assistance,
monitoring, equipment, and maintenance services bene-
fitting the whole of System C involving 24,100 ha of newly
irrigated land and 3,600 ha of currently irrigated area.
Of the 27,700 directly benefiting families, about 87%
would be new farmer settlers most of whom are currently
landless or operating sub-economic holdings. The project
involves no special risks beyond those commonly associated
with irrigation/settlement schemes.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost: /a                                            US$ Million Equivalent
Local  Foreign   Total
Civil Works
Construction Camp                         1.5      1.0      2.5
Right Bank Transbasin Canal              12.2    18.3    30.5
Irrigation System & Land Development  19.4    22.5    41.9
Roads                                     1.6      1.3      2.9
Social & Administration
Infrastructure
Social Infrastructure                     4.1      1.8      5.9
Administration Offices & Quarters         4.5      1.9      6.4
Engineering, Supervision &
Administration                        10.0       -      10.0
Equipment & Vehicles                      0.5      9.1      9.6
Settlement Assistance                     1.8      0.3      2.1
Monitoring Program                        0.7       -       0.7
Technical Assistance & Training           0.5      3.6      4.1
Base Cost                       56.8    59.8   116.6
Physical Contingencies                    6.0      6.8    12.8
O&M During Project Construction           3.0      0.5      3.5
Price Escalation                         48.6    20.3    68.9
Total Project Cost             114.4    87.4   201.8
Financing Plan:                                               US$ Million Equivalent
Local  Foreign   Total
IDA                                      48.9    41.1    90.0
Government of Japan                      13.5    31.5    45.0
Kuwait Fund                              30.5    14.5    45.0
Government of Sri Lanka                  21.5      0.3    21.8
Total                             114.4    87.4   201.8
Estimated                                       US$ Million Equivalent
Disbursements:    IDA FY           1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
Annual         20.5  23.5  11.5  10.0  10.0  10.0   4.5
Cumulative    20.5  44.0  55.5  65.5  75.5  85.5  90.0
Rate of Return:       18%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 3128-CE, dated May 26, 1981.
Maps:                No. IBRD 13477R1 and IBRD 15154R.
/a   The project would be exempted from all taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
1.        I submi- the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for
Special Drawing Rights 73.3 M (US$90 M equivalent) on standard terms
to help finance a Mahaweli Ganga Development Project III. Co-financing
arrangements are being made with the Government of Japan and the Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development (para 44).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report, "Sri Lanka:  Policies and Prospects
for Economic Adjustment" (Report No. 3466-CE, May 15, 1981) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on May 26, 1981. Country Data are provided in Annex I.
3.        After several years of relative stagnation, Sri Lanka's economy has
experienced sustained growth. This growth has been the direct result of the
economic liberalization of 1977, and the development push associated with it.
Until 1977, Sri Lanka's growth performance had been below both need and poten-
tial. Although GDP growth in the 1960s, at 4.4% per annum, was above the
average for low income countries, growth slackened sharply in the 1970-77
period to 2.9% per annum, just below the average for low income countries.
Through much of this period, the terms of trade deteriorated steadily, eroding
even these modest gains; as a consequence, per capita gross national income
rose by a mere 0.9% per annum during the 1960-76 period. The slowdown in
economic growth in the 1970-77 period is attributable to a combination of
factors, including inadequate investment, poor management of the economy,
and a policy environment unconducive to growth and investment, which were
compounded by poor weather in some years and a sharp rise in the cost of
imported food and petroleum.
4.        The three tree crops--tea, rubber and coconuts--which are still
the mainstay of the economy, suffered from low replanting and inadequate
incentives. These problems were exacerbated by a dual exchange rate system,
introduced in 1968, that discriminated against these crops, and by the uncer-
tainties surrounding a protracted nationalization (1972-75) of the larger
estates. After the exceptional output growth of the 1960s, rice yields and
cropping intensities declined in the 1970-77 period due to poor institutional
support. Investment in manufacturing was also low, and the inefficiency of
most public and private sector firms, nurtured in a highly protected environ-
ment, resulted in growth of manufacturing of 1% per annum. The only bright
spots were subsidiary food crops and industrial exports which benefited from
good incentives.



5.        An inadequate public savings effort, caused by inelastic revenues
and uncontrolled growth in recurrent expenditures, inhibited public investment.
Private savings and investment were constrained by an unfavorable policy
environment. The low growth rates and the slow changes in the structure of
output matched neither the jobs nor the changes in employment structure that
the growing labor force required. Slow output growth, the excessive capital
intensity of investment, the mismatch between the job aspirations of those
with post-primary education and the jobs available to them, the post war
demographic bulge, and rising female participation rates contributed to a
massive increase in open unemployment, estimated at over 1 million, or some
18% of the labor force in 1977.
6.        In sharp contrast to this poor economic performance, Sri Lanka's
social achievements in relation to per capita income have been outstanding.
Sri Lanka has about one and one-half times the life expectancy, almost thrice
the literacy, one-quarter the infant mortality and half the birth rate that
would be expected for a country at its per capita income level. Nutrition
levels have been adequate, and in the 1960s there were parallel gains in
income distribution. These improvements in the quality of life, in particular
the rise in health standards, the spread of education and the availability of
subsidized food, have been important factors in the decline in mortality. The
increasing age of marriage, the spread of female education and employment, and
a vigorous family planning program, have also contributed to a sharp decline
in fertility. As a consequence, population growth, net of migration, has
dropped steadily, from 2.7% per annum in the 1953-63 intercensal period to
2.2% qer annum in the 1963-71 period, and 1.7% per annum during 1971-81.
7.        The gains in the social field were made possible by favorable initial
conditions. Compulsory primary education was introduced as early as 1901. The
food ration was introduced in 1942. Thus, at the time of Independence in 1948,
Sri Lanka already enjoyed high levels of adult literacy and life expectancy.
These initial gains were consolidated and expanded in the post-Independence
period through large expenditures on social services and the food subsidy,
which accounted for two-fifths to one-half of government revenues in the 1960s
and early 1970s. These expenditures were traditionally financed by capturing
the surpluses of the three major tree crops, which provided the Government
with easy sources of revenue and foreign exchange. These surpluses began to
decline in the late 1960s as government policies discriminated against these
crops and export unit prices weakened. With growth in other productive sectors
in the economy also decelerating in the 1970-77 period, the budgetary resources
available for social programs were squeezed by inelastic revenues and rapid
inflation. As a consequence, expenditures on social services other than the
food subsidy began to decline as a proportion of total current expenditures
and of GDP, threatening the hard-won gains in health and education. In short,
the economy was no longer generating the resources needed to sustain a large
program of welfare expenditures. Moreover, the very size of those programs
reduced the scope for policy makers to shift resources to development.
8.        The policy changes introduced in 1977, following the election of
the United National Party, were intended to break this vicious circle. The
new Government identified its objectives as the sustained revival and resus-
citation of the economy and increased employment through (i) increased capa-
city utilization in the productive sectors, (ii) stimulation of savings and



- 3 -
investment, and (iii) efforts to encourage exports, and import substitution in
foodgrains. A program of policy reforms was developed in close consultation
with the IMF. These reforms were supported initially by an IMF standby
arrangement covering 1978 for SDR 93 million. On January 26, 1979 the Fund's
Executive Board approved an SDR 260 million Extended Arrangement to cover the
1979-81 period. The principal aim of the reform program was to dismantle
controls over resource allocation and initiate price adjustments with a view
to establishing more realistic relative prices. By 1980, these goals had
largely been achieved.
9.        The program of reforms comprised a number of major policy initia-
tives. The exchange rate was unified 1/ on November 16, 1977 at a depreciated
rate of Rs 16 = US$1.00 and allowed to float. This implied a depreciation of
46% against the official rate prevailing prior to unification, and 11.2% with
respect to the Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificate rate. The trade and
payments regime was liberalized. Public sector import monopolies were almost
entirely terminated. Prior licensing of imports was abolished for all but
a handful of commodities. The tariff structure was revised and simplified.
Other budgetary taxes and subsidies were adjusted to reflect the change in
trade and exchange rate policies. In particular, rice and sugar rations
were confined to the poorer half of the population, and the food subsidy
was eliminated through a series of adjustments in administered prices. On
September 1, 1979 the Government introduced a system of food and kerosene
stamps for families with monthly incomes less than Rs 300 to replace specific
subsidies and food rationing, and to target benefits to the poor. To help
offset the adverse impact of these changes on real incomes, public sector
wages were periodically adjusted upwards. Public corporations were asked to
pass on cost increases, except for fertilizer, petroleum, milk, and public
transport, where price increases were initially deferred to cushion the impact
on consumers. The Government subsequently eliminated the overall subsidy on
petroleum products and made sizable adjustments in bus and train fares,
electricity and fertilizer prices. The burden of selected subsidies and
transfers, as a consequence, fell from around 9% of GDP in 1978 to around
5% in 1980. These changes, taken together with higher aid receipts, have
helped permit a sizable increase in capital expenditures.
10.       Agricultural pricing policies have changed dramatically.  The
domestic support price for paddy was increased by 21% in November 1977, by
25% in November 1980, and by a further 5% in February 1981 following a sub-
stantial increase in fertilizer prices. With the related increase in flour
prices, incentives for paddy and other flour substitutes benefited. At the
same time there has been a large policy-induced decline in the role of the
state in domestic rice trade. Fresh coconut prices were also increased and
the export duty on coconut products was appropriately adjusted. While the
unification of the exchange rate ended formal discrimination against tree
crops, high export duties, particularly on tea, continued to siphon off most
I/   Prior to unification, all exports other than tea, rubber and coconut
products and all imports other than food, fertilizers and drugs were
channelled through the certificate market. Since November 1972, the
FEEC rate was maintained at a 65% premium over the official rate.



- 4 -
of the operating surplus for the Government. As tea prices fell and produc-
tion costs rose in 1978-79, the Government responded to the reduced producer
margins by a lowering of taxes on tea. The Government has also ended most
price controls, and reformed the interest rate and tax systems. The burden
of company and personal taxation was lowered, and the taxation system was
rationalized with a view to increasing revenue elasticity; nevertheless, the
overall revenue elasticity to economic growth and domestic inflation remains
low as taxes on slowly growing tree crop exports have averaged over 30% of
current revenues. Interest rates were also raised sharply to encourage
savings and discourage speculative imports. However, inflation eroded these
rates and in April 1980 further upward adjustments were made.
11.       The economic reforms have been accompanied by a major effort to
step up public investment. The Government's capital expenditures jumped
from 6% of GDP in 1977 to an average of 13% in 1978 and 1979, and 19% in 1980,
as government departments responded to the initial improvement in the budgetary
resource position by embarking on long overdue replacement investments and new
projects that had been shelved earlier for lack of resources. At the same
time, the Government embarked on three major new programs which are to be the
lead projects in a five-year rolling public investment program. These are:
(i) accelerated implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program, by
far the largest multi-purpose river basin development program ever undertaken
in Sri Lanka (paras 25-27); (ii) a 200 square-mile free trade zone north of
Colombo under a newly constituted Greater Colombo Economic Commission which
has established the first of several Investment Promotion Zones near Colombo's
international airport and by end-1980 had signed agreements with 64 investors
involving a total investment of US$130 million; and (iii) a massive housing and
urban renewal program with its main focus on the Colombo metropolitan region,
including the construction of a new capital complex at Kotte, a suburb of
Colombo. Budgetary expenditures on these three programs will amount to Rs 34
billion, or 52% of projected budgetary resources over the 1981-85 period. The
underlying public investment strategy is to balance the large investment
requirements of the Government's high priority programs against the urgent
rehabilitation and fresh investment needs in other sectors. The main thrust
of the public sector program is to lay the foundation for longer term develop-
ment, both by improving the efficiency of use of existing infrastructure
investments and by expanding the longer term growth capacity of the economy.
The strategy thus implicitly relies on the private sector to respond to the
economic reforms and the stimulus of the public sector investment program, and
provide much of the short-term growth. Private fixed investment has so far
responded well, increasing from about 7% of GDP in 1977 to 15% by 1980, and
helping overall fixed investment to exceed 33% of GDP.
12.       In response to the policy reforms and the accompanying acceleration
in investment, economic growth in 1978-1980 averaged an impressive 6.8% per
annum. This growth was shared by almost all sectors of the economy, particu-
larly construction and services. The only major exception has been the tree
crop sector. The impressive performance is due to a number of factors includ-
ing the improved availability of inputs following import liberalization, an
increased role for the private sector in distribution, and the removal of
price controls. Although there is little data available on employment,
Central Bank estimates suggest that unemployment dropped from 18% of the
labor force to 15% between 1977 and 1979.



- 5 -
13.       Despite this strong performance, major weaknesses in economic
performance emerged in 1980. In particular, the national savings effort has
not matched the rapid rise in investment. Gross national savings fluctuated
around 15% of GDP during the 1978-80 period, while recourse to foreign savings
to finance the higher investment rose from 4.5% of GDP in 1978 to 19.5% in
1980. Although the Government has succeeded in containing the costly consumer
subsidy and transfer programs, which has led to their decline as a percent of
GDP (para 9), relatively inelastic revenues combined with steadily rising
other recurrent expenditures and declining terms of trade resulted in hardly
any public savings over the 1978-80 period. As a result, the Government has
financed its rapidly rising capital expenditures through foreign aid, and
by increasing its level of domestic borrowings. Initially the Government
was able to meet its domestic financing requirements through non-expansionary
borrowings from captive financial institutions, which had been able to mobil-
ize increased private savings following the interest rate reform. However,
resources mobilized through these channels have not grown as rapidly as the
budgetary deficit, and the Government has been increasingly forced to undertake
expansionary borrowings from the Central Bank. Between 1978 and 1979, these
rose from 0.4% to 1.2% of GDP and in 1980 increased sharply to 10.5% of GDP.
14.       Inflation has also increased sharply since 1977.  The exchange rate
adjustment, other policy-induced price increases and related wage increases,
the removal of price controls, and the build-up of external assets, which
added to the money supply, contributed significantly to inflationary pressures
in 1978 and 1979. However, these were moderated by bumper paddy harvests,
increased capacity utilization in the economy, increased availability of
imports, and the beneficial effects of competition from imports and in domes-
tic distribution. Since then, rapid growth in the broad money supply--38% in
1979 and 32% iAn 1980--has added a sizable "built-in" increase to the system.
Together with the corrective price increases designed to reduce budgetary
subsidies and keep pace with the rapid increases in international petroleum,
wheat and sugar prices, these pressures have caused inflation (as measured by
the Colombo Consumer Price Index) to accelerate from an average of 11% in 1978
and 1979, to 26% in 1980.
15.       The rapid expansion in economic activity has been reflected most
vividly in the balance of payments. Import volume growth since 1978 has
averaged 15%. Between 1978 and 1980, the net petroleum import bill more than
tripled and increased from 11% to 36% of non-petroleum exports, while capital
goods imports more than doubled in response to the acceleration in investment.
However, exports have shown barely any volume growth due mainly to declining
tree crop export volumes, which offset strong growth in garments exports.
These adverse trade volume trends were compounded by a 20% terms of trade
deterioration over the same period. The rapid growth in tourism receipts
and private remittances from abroad in this period failed to offset the deter-
ioration on trade account and the current account deficit rose from $124
million (4.5% of GDP) to $805 million in 1980 (19.5% of GDP). In 1978 and
1979, rapidly rising non-monetary capital inflows due mainly to increased net
aid disbursements more than offset the current account deficit and Sri Lanka
continued to add to its net international reserves, albeit at a declining
rate. In 1980, however, net international reserves fell by $220 million, and
by end-1980 gross international reserves stood at $377 million, or equivalent
to less than nine weeks of imports of goods and non-factor services. With the



- 6 -
rapid drawdown in reserves, the public sector, especially the public corpora-
tions, have begun to make significant use of commercial financing arrangements.
16.       The Government realized in early 1981 that continuation of the
1980 trends would risk continued high inflation and unsustainable pressures
on the balance of payments, and took corrective steps. The 1981 budget
proposes to reduce government capital expenditures from 19% of GDP in 1980 to
14% of GDP in 1981, and the overall budgetary deficit was reduced from 21% to
15% between 1980 and 1981. In addition, the Government has moved to limit
public sector purchases of equipment and construction of new buildings and
taken steps to raise additional resources and impose a control mechanism over
capital expenditures by public corporations. Continued strong measures will
be required throughout the medium term to ensure that public sector investment
is consistent with available resources, as many of the large development
schemes the Government has initiated are only now gathering full momentum.
17.       Aid donors have responded enthusiastically to the Government's devel-
opment initiatives--the average level of aid commitments in 1978-80 was almost
120% higher in nominal terms than in 1975-77; and almost 40% higher in real
terms. Most of the growth came in project aid, reflecting the Government's
efforts to increase investment, particularly in the Accelerated Mahaweli
Program. Given that public investment is already over-programmed, continued
high levels of aid will depend upon donors' ability to shift from project to
non-project aid and to finance a sizable portion of local costs (see para 44)
in order to provide increased budgetary and balance of payments support, and
upon the Government maintaining donor confidence in its economic policies
and management through a vigorous domestic resource mobilization program
and continued restraint on government expenditures. External public debt
outstanding and disbursed stood at US$1,328 million at the end of 1980,
amounting to about 35% of GDP. However, it is almost all long-term conces-
sional debt. As a result, the debt service burden is relatively low--the
debt service ratio in 1980 excluding IMF repurchases stood at 9.3% of
exports of goods and non-factor services, declining from 13.3% in 1977.
While this sustained decline is due in part to improved export earnings, the
main cause has been a decline in outstanding short- and medium-term commer-
cial borrowings. Unless the ratio of the current account deficit to GDP
improves, Sri Lanka will again have to begin undertaking significant shorter
maturity commercial borrowings to fill the gap between the current account
deficit and likely concessional aid flows. In that case, the debt service
ratio could rise quickly.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
18.       Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the Bank
Group has approved eight loans totalling US$72.9 million (net of cancellations)
and 27 credits totalling US$409 million (net of cancellations and exchange
adjustments) in support of 33 projects. About 43% of Bank Group assistance
has been for agriculture (irrigation, agricultural, and dairy development),
17% for power, 15% for transport, and the remainder for development finance
company operations, a program credit (mainly involving the import of raw
materials for industry), water supply, telecommunications and small and medium



industries. Eight loans and eight credits have been fully disbursed so
far. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations as of
March 31, 1981, together with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
19.       An IFC equity investment of about US$100,000 equivalent in the
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) and an IFC non-revolving
line of credit of US$2.0 million to the government-owned Bank of Ceylon for
on-lending to private small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises were
approved in FY78. IFC also approved an investment of US$3.68 million in a
synthetic textile mill, and US$986,000 in a polypropylene bag manufacturing
plant in FY79. During FY80 IFC approved an increase in equity investment of
about US$51,000 equivalent in DFCC and an investment of US$260,000 in an
equipment leasing company. In FY81, an investment of about US$0.7 million in
equity and about US$17 million in loans for a new hotel project in Colombo was
approved.
20.       The Bank Group's current strategy is focused on the agricultural
sector to support Government efforts to increase food production and reduce
its dependence on food imports, and to raise productivity, employment, incomes
and living standards of the rural population in Sri Lanka. Projects to sup-
port basic infrastructure are also included. In addition to providing financ-
ing for the ongoing Mahaweli Ganga Development Project II and the Mahaweli
Ganga Technical Assistance Project, the Bank Group is assisting the Government
in accelerating the implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program
principally through the coordination of external assistance for project
preparation and implementation. A village irrigation rehabilitation project
is scheduled for consideration by the Board on June 11, 1981. A second tea
rehabilitation project, a second small and medium industries project and a
Mahaweli Power Transmission Project are being appraised.
21.       The Bank Group presently accounts for 9.7% (IBRD, 2.3%; IDA, 7.4%)
of Sri Lanka's total debt outstanding and disbursed, and 6.5% (over 80% IBRD)
of debt service on medium and long term debt. It is projected that the Bank
Group's share in total existing external debt outstanding and disbursed will
increase to 17% by 1985 (with the IBRD's share declining to 1.3%). The Bank
and IDA shares in the debt service are expected to decline to about 4% by 1985.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Overview
22.       Agriculture remains of central importance to the economic develop-
ment of Sri Lanka. In 1980, it contributed about 28% of total GDP, over 50%
of total employment, 60% of export earnings, and 29% of government revenues.
In addition, much of the activity in the manufacturing, transport, and the
services sectors relate to either supply of agricultural inputs or processing
agricultural output.
23.       Agricultural development has been concentrated to date in the wet
and intermediate zones which lie in the southwest portion of the island.
These zones, accounting for only one-third of Sri Lanka's surface area,



contain about two-thirds of the population and 50% of its paddyland. Agri-
cultural growth in these zones depends primarily on increasing productivity of
already developed land. In contrast, the dry zone to the north is sparsely
populated and underdeveloped despite continuing migration and colonization.
Permanent agriculture there accounts for less than 30% of the 2.4 M ha which
are considered potentially arable, with an additional 40% under subsistence-
type slash and burn (chena) agriculture. Cultivation in the southwest monsoon
season (yala) is confined to irrigated areas, but even in these, water and
other constraints limit average land use intensities to about 110-120%.
Considerable potential exists in Sri Lanka for both increasing cropping
intensities on already developed land and expanding cultivated area. Even on
rainfed lands, there is considerable scope for stabilizing chena and raising
productivity. While paddy will probably continue to be the dominant crop in
irrigated areas, the dry zone in general holds most promise for agricultural
diversification.
Objectives and Strategy for the Future
24.       The present Government recognizes the pivotal role of agriculture
in stimulating economic growth and rural development in Sri Lanka. Its
medium-term strategy for agriculture emphasizes better utilization of existing
potential through institutional and policy reform, as well as strategically
selected investments to increase the production base. Among programs given
high priority are: (a) establishing appropriate price incentives for pro-
ducers; (b) strengthening agricultural support services such as research and
extension, credit, farm power supply, and fertilizer distribution; and (c)
stronger irrigation water management. Following adoption of measures in 1977
designed to implement the above and due partly to favorable weather, the
sector responded well the following year. Agricultural GDP grew by 5.4%
in 1978, compared to a 2% p.a. average over the 1970-77 period. While damage
due to a severe cyclone in November 1978 and failure of the southwest monsoon
in 1979 resulted in only 2% agricultural growth during 1979, output recovered
in 1980, increasing by 3.1%. There has been steady growth in paddy, and
following the removal of the flour subsidy and introduction of floor prices in
1980, increased production of subsidiary food crops. Through continuation of
its adopted strategy, the Government hopes to boost agricultural growth to 5%
p.a. over the next five years. Given adequate attention to potential imple-
mentation constraints, this target should be attainable. For the longer-term,
the Government is emphasizing further expansion of irrigated agriculture into
the dry zone through accelerated development of its major river basins, such
as the Mahaweli Ganga Basin.
The Mahaweli Ganga Development Program
25.       The Program 1/ is based on a Master Plan prepared jointly by a UNDP/
FAO team and Sri Lankan engineers in 1965-68. The Plan envisaged development
of about 365,000 ha of irrigable land in the dry zone, as well as about 500 MW
of hydropower. It was divided into three phases, each including several proj-
ects, for stepwise implementation over a 30-year period. Late in 1977, the
1/   The Mahaweli Ganga Development Program or Scheme includes about 365,000 ha
of net irrigable land situated in the Mahaweli Ganga and Maduru Oya Basins
and the North-Central part of Sri Lanka.



- 9 -
Government realized that at the current rate of construction and population
growth, the Program as formulated would not have the desired impact of rapidly
alleviating unemployment and serious food and power shortages, and that it
should be accelerated. An Implementation Strategy Study, financed by the
Netherlands, was then carried out to: (a) review and re-evaluate the Master
Plan and each of its separate projects; (b) examine the implications of
various alternative phasings of its projects; and (c) recommend a specific
action plan taking into account anticipated constraints.
26.       As a result of this Study, the Government decided to limit initial
works on the Accelerated Program (1980-85) to four headworks (Victoria,
Kotmale, Randenigala, and Maduru Oya) having a total installed hydroelectric
capacity of about 500 MW and to about 60,000 ha in Systems B and C. 1/ Exter-
nal assistance has been secured to finance three headworks projects, namely
Victoria (UK), Maduru Oya (Canada), and Randenigala (Federal Republic of
Germany). The fourth project (Kotmale) is being financed partly by Swedish
import support funds. The US is providing finance for downstream development
of the Maduru Oya Project (System B) and has also financed an in-depth study
of the environmental impact of the Accelerated Program. Canada and the UK
financed feasibility studies of Systems B and C, respectively. The Asian
Development Bank is providing assistance to plan and install roads in the
Accelerated area, and the EEC is providing assistance to finance downstream
development of Zone 2 in System C. The proposed project would assist in
financing downstream development in System C, and marks the first involve-
ment of IDA and other project co-financiers (Japan and the Kuwait Fund) in
area development effort under the Accelerated Program.
27.       Over the past year, due to rapid domestic and international inflation
and to the  n-½ eased costs associated with the more difficult site conditions
for the KoLmaLe project than originally estimated, the overall costs of the
Program have risen substantially. In response to this, the Government made
various adjustments (such as reducing the height of Kotmale Dam and deferring
downstream development of the right bank of System B). Nevertheless, expendi-
tures on the program are projected at US$1.6 billion in the 1981-85 period, or
about 44% of projected resources for the entire public investment program.
Such an ambitious program will strain available financial and real resources,
particularly in 1982 and 1983. The financial constraints can be minimized
to the extent that donors step up levels of assistance for the program and
Government increases its own domestic resource mobilization efforts. Some
donors have already moved in this direction, and Government has indicated
its intention to take measures to raise domestic resources. Real resources,
however, will continue to be a serious constraint, and an active dialogue on
this continues among Government, the Bank, and other interested donors.
Bank Group's Involvement in Mahaweli Development
28.       With Bank Group assistance (Loan 653-CE and Credit 174-CE, US$14.5
million each) under the first Mahaweli project, the Program began in 1970 with
1/   The total Accelerated Mahaweli Development Program encompasses about one-
third of the Scheme's net irrigable area, representing delineated Systems
A, B, C, D-1, D-2, E, F and G.



- 10 -
construction of transbasin diversion headworks at Polgolla on the Mahaweli
Ganga and at Bowatenna on the Amban Ganga, including a 40 MW hydropower plant
at Polgolla. A second 40 MW hydropower plant at Bowatenna, assisted by the
Asian Development Bank, is nearing completion. Although project completion
was delayed two years, the first Mahaweli Project was completed satisfactorily
in 1978. The main objectives of the Project were to improve water supply to
about 52,650 ha of existing irrigated land, provide a full water supply to
about 29,000 ha of new land and supply 40 MW of hydropower. A project com-
pletion report for Mahaweli I indicates that the project was well designed
and fulfilled its objectives. Together with Canada, the EEC, the Netherlands,
UK and US, IDA is financing a second phase of Mahaweli Development, involving
irrigation and social infrastructure for about 17,500 ha in System H of the
Mahaweli Scheme (Credit 701-CE, US$19 million). About 85% of irrigation works
and 40% of social infrastructure were completed by April 1981. After a good
start in implementation, progress has slowed somewhat during 1980 and 1981 due
primarily to shortage of local funds. The Government has agreed to provide
sufficient funds from within the Mahaweli Program allocation to ensure suc-
cessful completion of the Project by December 1982. Actual disbursements from
the IDA Credit (about US$5.1 million at April 30, 1981) are lagging behind
appraisal estimates.  The rate of disbursements achieved, however, understates
actual implementation progress mainly because of the devaluation of the rupee
since appraisal with no concomitant adjustment in disbursement percentages,
resulting in lower foreign exchange values for civil works. Disbursements are
expected to improve substantially in 1981 and 1982 due to revised disbursement
percentages. Under a technical assistance project (Credit 979-CE, US$3.0
million) IDA, with EEC co-financing, is providing technical assistance for a
study to determine the optimal use of surplus water from the Mahaweli Ganga,
ongoing review of designs and tendering for Right Bank Transbasin Canal works,
and other studies and design work related to System C. Consultants have been
employed to assist the Government with these studies, and their work is
progressing satisfactorily.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
29.       The project area, System C (Map IBRD 15154R), comprises about one-
half of the downstream development area to be served by the Victoria Dam
Project, a principal component in the Government's Accelerated Mahaweli
Program. System C encompasses about 24% of the area that will be irrigated
under the Accelerated Program. In 1978, Hunting Technical Services Ltd. com-
pleted a preliminary feasibility report that concluded that System C develop-
ment would represent a viable investment and an appropriate next phase in the
Mahaweli Program. An interim feasibility report was issued in December 1979,
which formed the basis of an IDA appraisal carried out in March/April 1980.
A report entitled "Sri Lanka - Mahaweli Ganga Development Project III" (No.
3128-CE) dated May 26, 1981 is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., from April 28 to
May 6, 1981. The Borrower's delegation was led by Mr. Ivan Samarawickrama,
Secretary, Ministry of Mahaweli Development. A Supplementary Project Data
Sheet and Special Conditions of the proposed Credit are given in Annex III.



- 11 -
Project Objectives
30.       The proposed project would be in consonance with the Government's
development objectives of reducing imports of agricultural commodities (prin-
cipally foodgrains), increasing exports, and generating employment opportuni-
ties. The project aims to create a viable financial base in irrigated farming
for about 24,100 new settler families, most of whom would be selected from the
lower income strata of the population. As settlement and agricultural produc-
tion expand, secondary and tertiary industries would develop, increasing
further opportunities for economic growth and employment for another 7,200
families.
Project Description
31.       The proposed project would cover specifically Zones 3-6 of System C
involving an irrigated area of about 18,500 ha, but would also include activi-
ties to facilitate the development of System C as a whole involving a total
of 24,100 ha of newly irrigated land and 3,600 ha of currently irrigated area.
The project would be implemented over six years and would include the follow-
ing works, facilities, and programs:
(a) Minipe Right Bank Transbasin Canal and allied structures
from km 4.7 to its end near the Ulhitiya Reservoir
(about 26 km).
(b) Within Zones 3-6:
(i) Construction of construction camp and workshops;
(ii)  Construction of main and branch canals, including
the Main Canal No. 2;
(iii)  Construction of distributor and field canals;
(iv)  Construction of main drains;
(v) Construction of secondary and field drains;
(vi)  Land clearing and on-farm development;
(vii)  Construction of social infrastructure including schools
and teachers' quarters, medical and public health
facilities, community development centers, administra-
tive service buildings, and agro-chemical, seed and
food stores;
(viii) Construction of market, village, and hamlet roads;
(ix)  Establishment of fuelwood and cashew plantations;
(x) Assistance to settlers through provision of core house
grants, seeds, and tools; and
(xi)  Construction of offices and staff quarters and provision
of vehicles for the Mahaweli Economic Agency.



- 12 -
(c) Within Total System C:
(i) Provision of maintenance equipment and workshops;
(ii) Construction of irrigation infrastructure and provision
of equipment for the Giranduru Kotte agricultural
development training center and farm;
(iii) Implementation of a program to monitor and evaluate
the project's agro-economic impact as well as irri-
gation deliveries and system losses;
(iv) Engineering, supervision, and management of project works;
(v) Introduction of a sound water management system;
(vi) Assistance to settlers through the establishment of a
farm machinery hire service and comprehensive agricul-
tural support services; and
(vii) Provision of technical assistance and training.
Project Organization and Management
32.       The Mahaweli Authority (MA) has overall responsibility for imple-
menting the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program and its subsequent management.
It has been entrusted by the Ministry of Mahaweli Development with wide-ranging
powers to implement the Program, including coordination of all government
institutions involved with carrying out the Program. This Program would be
implemented principally by the two operational agencies of MA, namely the
Mahaweli Development Board (MDB) and the Mahaweli Economic Agency (MEA).
MDB would be responsible for all physical works under the project and would
function principally as a design and construction agency for downstream
development (irrigation and social infrastructure and on-farm development).
MEA would be responsible for post-construction implementation of the project.
Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit would be the establishment
of the MEA with sufficient powers to ensure efficient use of water resources,
and the appointments of the MEA Managing Director, the four MEA head office
Managers, and the Project Manager for System C (Section 6.01(b) and (c) of
the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)). The Project Manager for System C
would report to the Managing Director of MEA.
33.       Other Government agencies would also provide essential facilities
and services to ensure project success. Agencies such as the Paddy Marketing
Board and Marketing Department would expand outlets in System C. The Sri
Lanka Cashew Corporation and the Forestry Department would collaborate with
MEA in establishing and maintaining cashew and fuelwood plantations. Commer-
cial banking institutions would provide required rural banking services to
project beneficiaries. The Ministry of Health would run health units provided
under the project, and the Ministry of Education would staff and equip the
schools. Multipurpose Cooperative Societies and Agrarian Service Centers
would be formed to supplement the private sector in providing input and output
marketing services.



- 13 -
Major Project Works
34.       The Minipe Right Bank Transbasin Canal would convey water from the
Mahaweli Ganga at Minipe to the Ulhitiya Oya/Ratkinda Reservoirs, where it
would be regulated for release to Systems B and C. The construction of the
new Minipe Anicut (diversion structure), the first 4.7 km of the Transbasin
Canal (including structures), and the embankments and outlet works of the
Ulhitiya Oya and Ratkinda Reservoirs were contracted to Government construc-
tion agencies and private firms before project appraisal and are currently
under construction. The remainder of the Canal and auxiliary works would be
financed under the project. A contract for this work has been awarded (para
45). Final designs for the Canal have been completed, and construction
working drawings are currently under preparation. Field location surveys
of main and branch canal alignments are in progress. Final designs of the
irrigation and drainage systems, as well as social infrastructure, are cur-
rently being prepared by consultants financed by IDA and the EEC (para 28).
Land Clearing and On-Farm Development
35.       Land clearing techniques and procedures have in the past proved less
than satisfactory, although some improvements were introduced in System H.
A better standard of land clearing and on-farm development is proposed for
System C to help settlers attain full production levels rapidly. All clearing
work would be contracted privately and would be scheduled for completion just
prior to start of on-farm development work. The on-farm work would be carried
out under private contracts, combining mechanized and manual operations, the
latter by settlers.
Social and Community Infrast;ucture
36.       Most existing infrastructure in System C is located in Zones 1-2.
Zones 3-6 are covered principally by jungle. Similarly, Zones 1-2 contain
about 95% of the estimated 30,000 current inhabitants within System C, about
80% of whom are directly engaged in agriculture. About 31,300 new families
(about 180,000 persons) would settle in System C after development, including
24,100 farmer-settlers and 7,200 tradesmen, artisans, and service personnel,
including Government staff. Given current budgetary limitations, the project
would provide new settlers with the minimum but adequate health, educational,
and other social infrastructure under a sites-and-services approach to town
development.
Giranduru Kotte Training Center and Farm
37.       Farmer-settlers, some with no practical irrigation experience, would
require training to gain proficiency in water management techniques. Farmers
and project staff would be trained at the proposed training Center. The farm
at the Center would encompass the command area of one distributor canal (about
250 ha) and would demonstrate diverse cropping and irrigation systems. The
Center, being financed by the EEC, would have necessary classrooms, research
buildings, and laboratories. Equipment and irrigation infrastructure for the
Center and the farm would be provided under the project.



- 14 -
Settlement and Agricultural Development
38.       The settlement program in System C would proceed simultaneously with
that in System B at rates considered achievable and realistic. Settlement is
expected to peak in 1986 with 5,300 families established in System C and to
average about 4,800 families p.a. over the five-year period. In total, 24,100
new farmer-settler families would be established in System C by 1986.
39.       Farmer-settlers would each be allocated a 1.0 ha irrigated plot and
a 0.2 ha houseplot. Non-farmer settlers and Government employees would be
allocated 0.1 ha houseplots. Farmer-settlers would receive their houseplots
and farms about six months before irrigation water becomes available. Until
incomes are obtained from agricultural pursuits, settlers would have the
opportunity to work for competitive wages in on-farm land development. Each
farmer-settler family would be provided through the project with a house grant
and cash allotment for tools and seeds. Settlers would also be eligible for
food aid for a period of 12 months after arrival under an agreement between
the Government and the World Food Programme.
40.       About 90% of the newly irrigated area in System C would be developed
to double-cropped paddy cultivation. Average cropping intensity of 180% is
expected at full development. On the remaining lands, paddy followed by
upland annual crops, or perennial crops would be produced. Houseplots would
be developed to provide diverse agricultural commodities both for home con-
sumption and off-farm sales. The agricultural extension system to be intro-
duced in System C under the Mahaweli Authority would be consistent with the
training and visit system planned under the nationwide Agricultural Extension
and Adaptive Research Project assisted by IDA (Section 3.06 of the DCA).
Adequate credit to the project area residents would be provided; such credit
would be supported by adequate supervisory staff and facilities and would be
reviewed periodically and adjusted as required (Section 3.07 of the DCA).
The project would support such banking operations by providing 10 simply
constructed facilities to be staffed and operated by existing banking insti-
tutions. The Government would allocate sufficient amounts of water for the
project from the Mahaweli Ganga (Section 3.08 of the DCA). Such amounts are
estimated to average about 500 M cu m annually, which represent about 13% of
the estimated long-term average flow of the Mahaweli Ganga at Minipe, or 22%
of the lowest year of record.
Monitoring and Evaluation
41.       A monitoring and evaluation system would be developed under the
project to review progress in project implementation. In addition to the
physical construction program, the system would focus on (a) input delivery
and use, and (b) output achievement in terms of increased production, improved
services and living standards, and water management. A special monitoring and
evaluation program would be established to assess project performance over the
1982-90 period, and the details of this program would be furnished to IDA by
March 31, 1982 (Section 3.09(a) of the DCA). The Government would implement
the monitoring and evaluation program by September 30, 1982 (Section 3.09(b)
of the DCA).



- 15 -
Technical Assistance and Training
42.       The project would provide technical assistance for planning and
scheduling project implementation works, contract administration and construc-
tion supervision of irrigation and drainage works and social infrastructure
in Zones 3-6, and for general agricultural development and water management
aspects of the project. The Government would employ consultants on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA (Section 3.02 of the DCA). The project would
also provide training of Government staff in countries where specific programs
are available in planning, design, and execution of irrigation development and
settlement projects. The project would require an estimated 27 man-years of
technical assistance expected to cost on average about US$12,000 equivalent
per man-month.
Cost and Financing
43.       Total costs of the project are estimated at US$201.8 1M, of which
US$87.4 M would be in foreign exchange. No import duties and taxes would be
charged on expenditures for the project. Cost estimates are based on prices
prevailing in mid-1980. Unit prices used for main and branch canals are based
on recent bid prices for similar work. The cost of the Transbasin Canal is
the contractor's bid price for its construction, awarded after International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) conducted in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Physical contingency factors are applied to costs of civil works and social
infrastructure at 15% and 10%, respectively. Price contingencies were cal-
culated on the following basis: 25% in 1980 and 1981, 15% in 1982, 12% in
1983, 10% in 1984, and 8% for 1985 and 1986 for local costs and 12.5% in 1980,
9% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982, and 7.5% for 1984 and 1985 and 6% for 1986 for
foreign costs.
44.       The Government is making arrangements with Japan and the Kuwait Fund
for co-financing the project. These arrangements were discussed during a co-
financing meeting, chaired by IDA, held in Tokyo in April 1981. Japan is
seriously considering an official request from the Government to co-finance
about US$45.0 M equivalent on a parallel basis. The Kuwait Fund pledged to
co-finance, also on a parallel basis, about US$45.0 M equivalent. Thus, with
the proposed IDA Credit of US$90.0 14 equivalent, total external financing
would amount to US$180.0 1 equivalent or about 89% of total project costs,
including 81% of local costs. Arrangements satisfactory to IDA for commitments
from co-financiers are conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit
(Section 6.01(a) of the DCA). The proposed IDA Credit would finance about
47% of foreign exchange costs and 42% of local costs. The remaining costs
(US$21.8 M equivalent) would be financed by the Government. Despite a number
of recent measures to raise additional resources in support of its investment
program (para 16), Sri Lanka's budgetary situation remains tight. A major
reason for this is the adverse impact on revenues of the relatively slow
increase in export volumes and prices, and the pressures on expenditures
arising from the rapid increase in import prices. Even though additional
resource mobilization measures are under consideration, the tight budgetary
situation will take time to resolve. Local cost financing in support of
Sri Lanka's own resource mobilization efforts will not only provide valuable
relief to these budgetary pressures but also supplement foreign exchange
resources needed in support of the balance of payments.



- 16 -
Procurement- /and Disbursement
45.       Discrete project components have been identified and agreed with
each prospective donor. Items to be financed by Japan and the Kuwait Fund
would be procured in accordance with their respective procurement guidelines.
Items to be financed by IDA would be procured in accordance with IDA guidelines
as follows: (a) Civil Works. (i) a contract for constructing the Transbasin
Canal (US$30.1 M equivalent) was procured through ICB in accordance with IDA
guidelines. The contract was signed in August 1980 and construction work is
underway. Gates for the Transbasin Canal (US$0.4 M) are being procured
through ICB; (ii) main drains (US$0.5 M) and construction camp (US$2.5 M)
would be procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable
to IDA; and (iii) land clearing (US$6.3 M) and on-farm development (US$7.5 M)
would be accomplished by mechanized and manual methods. Tenders for machine
work would be grouped into contracts of at least US$0.75 M and the work would
be procured through LCB. Land clearing to be done manually would be divided
into small contracts and awarded through LCB and through fixed rate contracts
to small local contractors and settlers; and (b) Equipment. Equipment and
vehicles to be financed by IDA (about US$1.3 M) would be procured through ICB.
Small off-the-shelf items, costing less than US$50,000 each and for which
international tendering is not practical, would be procured after comparing
prices from not less than three independent suppliers in accordance with
Government procurement procedures acceptable to IDA. Such purchases, however,
would be limited to an aggregate of US$0.5 M.
46.       Disbursements from the proposed IDA Credit would cover:  (a) 100%
of foreign expenditures and 90% of local expenditures for civil works and
materials for the Transbasin Canal; (b) 90% of expenditures for civil works
and materials for construction camp, main drains, land clearing, and on-farm
aevelopment; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured and 90% of expendi-
tures for locally procured equipment, vehicles and spare parts; (d) 90% of
expenditures for settlement assistance; (e) 50% of expenditures for staff
costs for engineering and supervision; and (f) 100% of expenditures for moni-
toring and evaluation surveys. Disbursements for settlement assistance and
staff costs for engineering and supervision would be made against statements
of expenditures. Disbursements against other items would be fully documented.
Retroactive financing of up to US$10.0 M is recommended to cover expenditures
incurred after August 8, 1980, for mobilization and construction costs of the
Right Bank Transbasin Canal. If signing of the credit documents is delayed,
additional retroactive financing may be made available at the Government's
request.
Environmental Impact
47.       The Government, while active in promulgating conservation measures,
considers the Mahaweli development of critical importance for meeting food
production targets and settling a large portion of the Sri Lankan poor in
1/   Costs quoted are base costs, net of physical and price contingencies and
engineering and administrative costs.



- 17 -
viable farming-based communities supported by adequate infrastructure. To
formulate ways of minimizing environmental damage, the Government requested
USAID to undertake an in-depth analysis of the environmental impact of the
entire MIahaweli Program.  A final report on this study's findiu:- ang recom-
mendations is currently being reviewed by Government and has been slared withi
IDA.  The Government proposes that this well-prepared report form the basis o'
an action program to mitigate environmental degradation. The general conclu-
sion of the environmental assessment is that the benefits of the Mahaweli
Program are justifiable, but prudent and timely measures are required to mini-
mize and offset negative environmental impacts arising with Mahaweli develop-
ment. Also, with such measures, net environmental degradation under the
Program should be considerably less than is likely to occur without it given
the prospects of continued encroachment and unsystematic development.  The
Government would furnish to IDA, by December 31, 1981, for its review and
concurrence, an ecology conservation program for System C and the entire
Accelerated Mahaweli Ganga Development Program area (Section 3.10(a) of the
DCA). The Government would commence implementation of such a program by March
31, 1982 (Section 3.10(b) of the DCA). The proposed project is in consonance
with the recommendations of the USAID-financed environmental assessment advo-
cating, inter alia, development of fuelwood plantations, other agro-forestry
activities, well-designed drainage systems and social infrastructure.
Operation and Maintenance
48.       A master planning unit attached to MA would be responsible for
allocating Mahaweli Ganga water for power, irrigation and other uses and for
apportioning irrigation watil among the various Mahaweli projects. The Main-
tenance Division under the Deputy Project Manager (O&M) would be responsible
for maintaining the irrigation system down to the farm turnouts. Division
staff would carry out a regular program of maintenance so that complete system
coverage would be achieved at least once every two years. The MEA would serve
as an enforcement as well as advisory agency to ensure that irrigation water
is used efficiently by the farmers and that unauthorized diversions of water
do not occur.
Cost Recovery
49.       Investment costs of the proposed project works--Right Bank Trans-
basin Canal (pro-rated), irrigation and drainage infrastructure, land develop-
ment, roads, social and administrative infrastructure, equipment, settlement
assistance, monitoring, and technical assistance--would amount to about
Rs 1,170 M in present value (PV) terms. Recurrent expenses for project
works O&M would amount to about Rs 57 M PV, or about Rs 800/ha p.a. Thus,
the PV of investment and recurrent costs over the 50-year projected life
of the project would total about Rs 1,227 M.
50.       A fundamental objective of the Mahaweli Program is the establishment
of a viable and sustainable socio-economic envirorment for a large portion of
the poor in Sri Lanka. The incomes of the majority of settlers moving to the
project area would be below the absolute poverty level (US$105 per capita p.a.).
Without the project, therefore, the majority of potential settlers would be a



- 18 -
burden on the Government's budget since they would qualify for food stamps.
With the project, however, about Rs 118 M PV would be saved in public assis-
tance. Such saved resources would be available to finance other budgetary
requirements.
51.       Under the Irrigation Ordinance of 1946, as amended in 1968, the
Government is empowered to impose water charges towards recovery of capital
and O&M costs of irrigation systems. However, it was only in July 1978 that
the Government decided to start collecting water charges from farmers benefit-
ting from publicly-financed irrigation schemes. Rates were established at the
nominal levels of Rs 75/ha p.a. in major schemes with 150% cropping intensity
or over and Rs 50/ha p.a. in major schemes with less than 150% cropping inten-
sity. To start collection, the Government had first to update registers and
establish collection machinery. The task of updating registers has now been
substantially completed, and a beginning has been made in collection with small
amounts collected in 1979 and 1980. Based on the experience of the past two
years, Government is now taking appropriate measures to improve the system
and machinery of collection.
52.       The present level of water charge in major irrigation schemes
(Rs 75/ha) represents about 15% of estimated average costs of operation and
maintenance requirements for the entire Mahaweli Ganga Development Scheme
(about Rs 500/ha). In order to recover the full costs of operation and main-
tenance, the Government would increase water charges to a level sufficient
by September 30, 1991, to recover at least the average cost of operation and
maintenance in the areas of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Scheme 1/ (Section
4.04(a) of the DCA). Water charges would be raised annually starting
September 30, 1982 by seven percentage points p.a. during the first five years
and ten percentage points p.a. thereafter. Water charge collection within the
project area would total about Rs 33 M PV. The Government would also periodi-
cally review and may further adjust the level of water charges with a view to
recover costs in addition to operation and maintenance, taking into account
farmer incentives and ability to pay as well as the need to mobilize domestic
resources (Section 4.04(b) and (c) of the DCA).
53.       In addition to increasing water charges and in order to recover part
of the investment costs, the Government would commence implementation of a
program, by December 31, 1982, for the transfer of rights to project benefi-
ciaries of newly irrigated land and houseplots in the project area in accor-
dance with an installment plan and at a rate sufficient to recover the costs
of improvements of such lands (Section 4.05 of the DCA). The transfer price
for newly irrigated land would cover the full costs of settlement assistance,
land clearing, on-farm development, field canals and field drains, and any
other improvement costs agreed upon between the Government and IDA by
December 31, 1982. Rates for houseplot land would cover the full costs of
land clearing. The installment plan would include a ten-year payment period,
1/   Areas developed under earlier schemes and areas not benefitting directly
from the Mahaweli Program investments may, at present, be exempted from
the proposed increases in water charges. Such areas represent about
12% of the areas under the Mahaweli Ganga Development Scheme.



- 19 -
with a possible two-year extension for exceptional circumstances, and the
highest annual interest rate permitted under prevailing legislation for such
payments (currently 4%). Costs of improvements noted above are estimated to
total (in mid-1980 terms) about Rs 26,000 1/ per settler family receiving one
irrigated ha for cultivation and a 0.2 ha houseplot. The proposed land charge
mechanism offers a simple project-specific procedure for recovering part of
investment costs. The Government intends to implement a similar program of
recovery of land improvement costs in other areas to be developed under the
Mahaweli Ganga Development Scheme. To this end, the Government has recently
approved legislation that enables such recoveries. Through the proposed land
charge program, the Government would recover about Rs 36 M PV from settlers
in the project area.
54.       Through the saved public assistance (Rs 118 M PV), the anticipated
water charges collection in the project areas (Rs 33 M PV) and the proposed
land charges (Rs 36 M PV), the Government would recover about Rs 187 M PV or
15% of the PV of investment and recurrent costs of the project, totalling
about Rs 1,227 M. This level of recovery is considered reasonable in view
of the low income base of most beneficiaries without the project, the fact
that with the proposed water and land charges their average income with the
project (US$226 per capita p.a.) will only be on par with the current national
average, the impact of relatively high projected domestic inflation on the
real value of land installment payments and the historical difficulties of
implementing cost recovery schemes in Sri Lanka.
Project Benefits and Justification
55.       The project would enable development of currently unexploited and
underutilized land resources in the Mahaweli Ganga Basin for intensive agri-
cultural development. As a result, the project also would create a viable
financial base in irrigated farming for about 24,100 new settler families
in the entire System C, most of whom would be selected from the lower income
strata of the Sri Lankan population. About 3,600 existing farm families in
Zones 1-2 would benefit from more assured water supplies. As agricultural
production expands, secondary and tertiary industries would also develop,
thereby increasing further opportunities for economic growth and employment
supporting another 7,200 non-farming families within System C. By reducing
rice imports and increasing exports (coffee, cocoa, pepper, cashews), the
project would have a beneficial impact on the Government's balance of pay-
ments. In total, the project, at full development, would generate annually,
as its principal economic benefits, an estimated 126,300 tons of incremental
rice, about 330 tons each of pepper, cocoa, and coffee, 29,400 tons of fuel-
wood, 385 tons of cashew kernels, and an assortment of other annual crops
predominantly for local consumption.
1/   Inclusion of other land improvement costs such as distributor canals,
main and secondary drains, and main and branch canals would increase
the transfer price to about Rs 55,200 per family.



- 20 -
56.       About 90% of direct project beneficiaries would be new settler
families most of whom are currently landless or operating subeconomic holdings.
Most of these would lie below the absolute poverty level of US$105 (Rs 1,890)
per capita p.a. and, therefore, would qualify for the Food Stamp Scheme (i.e.,
earning less than Rs 300/month). The remaining 10% direct beneficiaries would
be farm families earning incomes above the absolute poverty line without the
project from moderately intensive irrigated farming under minor and major
tank schemes in Zones 1-2. With the project, benefitting farm families (on
average) would earn (per capita) incomes on par with the current national
average.
57.       The Sri Lankan economy is expected to realize net benefits from the
project of about Rs 1,025 M (US$56.9 M) in present worth terms, which, when
annualized over the 50-year expected project life, would yield about Rs 123 M
p.a. (US$6.8 M). Net returns per rupee of investment would be about Rs 0.70.
The economy would realize an economic rate of return from total project invest-
ments, inclusive of physical contingencies, of about 18%.
Project Risks
58.       The Mahaweli Program dominates the public investment program and
will severely strain financial and real resources. A risk that the project
faces is that adjustments to the public investment program to match resource
availabilities could have an adverse impact on the pace of downstream devel-
opment, particularly in 1982 and 1983. This risk would be greatly mitigated
by the high proportion of total downstream costs that are already borne by
donors and by likely additional aid flows and domestic resource mobilization
efforts in support of the public investment program. In addition, the Govern-
ment has indicated its intention to give downstream development the highest
priority. There remains the risk, however, of a shortage of real resources.
The availability of these will be carefully monitored and is part of an
ongoing dialogue between the Bank and Government. Full realization of esti-
mated project benefits is dependent upon efficient irrigation water and land
use that will require strong institutional support and effective agricultural
extension. Given the history of excessive water use by Sri Lankan farmers,
enforcement of operational rules for optimal water use will require consider-
able effort by MEA. Any serious failure in this regard could cause water
shortages particularly at the extremities of the irrigation system, thereby
causing benefit reduction. The project has attempted to mitigate these
problems by proposing a strong water management program and requiring MEA
to be given full enforcement powers. With these arrangements, the risk of
poor water management is minimized.
59.       Sensitivity analysis indicates that, if the project's implementation
period were lengthened by two years as a result of potential problems dis-
cussed in para 58, the net present worth for the project would fall from a
base case of Rs 1,025 M to Rs 600 M, and the economic rate of return would
decline from 18% to about 16%. In the unlikely event that full development
benefits are delayed by two more years, the combined effect would cause the
economic rate of return to fall to about 12%. Other tests reveal that the
project would remain economically attractive with up to a 23% reduction (180%
to 139%) in cropping intensity or in paddy yields projected with the project
(4.7 tons/ha to 3.6 tons/ha).



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Association and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
61.       Special conditions of the Credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness for the Credit include:
satisfactory arrangements for commitments for co-financing; the establishment
of the Mahaweli Economic Agency (MEA); and the appointment of the MEA Managing
Director, four head office Managers, and the Project Manager for System C.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 1, 1981



-22-            
-22-                                     ANNEX I
Page 1
SRI LANKA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SRI LAANK                   RELERUYCE (GOUPS (WEIGHTED AVRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                 - HQST RECEYT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            65.6                               MOST RECENT        Low INCIHE          MIDDLE INCOE
AGRICULTURAL     25.7              1960  /b   1970 L ESTTnATE  b   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA 6 PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 60.0       100.0    230.0              212.4             1114.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    107.0       138.0jL   109.0             166.0              842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     9.9       12.5      14.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9      21.9      25.6               20.8               39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    21.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      31.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                     151.0      191.0    218.0               193.2              376.1
PER SQ. K0M. AGRICULTURAL LAND    507.0     518.0    556.0              409.6             2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCEIT)
0-14 YRS.                        42.1        41.9     37.6               42.0               40.4
15-64 YRS.                        54.3       54.5      58.3              535.0               56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.6        3.6       4.1                3.0                3.4
POPULATION CURWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2. 5        2. 4     1. 7               2.2                2.4
URBAN                             4.8        4.3       3.7                3.9                4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    36.0       30.0      26.0               37.4               28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     9.0        7.0       6.0               14.6                7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             2.5        2.3       1.8                2.6                1.9
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..        55.3    113.0
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOHEN)   ..        8.0      41.0               15.6               39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         93.0      103.0    119.0               101.4              116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REOUIREKENTS)                  97.0      108.0      96. 0              92. 4             108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         44.0        47.0     43.0               49.8               60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      13.0        13.0      7.0               12.0               18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MDRTALITY RATE     7.0        3.0       2.0               17.9                5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   62.0       67.0      69.0               50.8               63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TMDUSAND)                          63.0       51.0        *-                *                 52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        31.0     20.0               30.2               42.4
URBAN                              ..        46.0     45.0               66.0               62.1
RURAL                             ..         14.0     13.0               20.0               29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        64.0     59.0               17.7               52.e
URBAN                              ..        76.0     68.0               71.3               71. 1
RURAL                              ..        61.0     55.0                 ..               42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         4500.0         *    6274. 0             6322. 7            4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    4150.0     2730.0   2259.0              9459.0             2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           319.0       331.0    331.0             1758.4              819.4
URBAN                              ..       '30.0    140.0
RURAL                              *        570.0    600.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        54.0     51.3                 *                28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5. 4/c     5.8
URBAN                             6. 3/c     6.3
RURAL                             5. 2/c     5. 5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             2.0/c      2.5
URBAN                             2. iLc     2. 7
RURAL                             2.0/c      2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DUELLINGS)
TOTAL                             7. 5Lc      9.0
URRAN                            35. 9C      34.5       ..
RURAL                             2.3/c       2.8 



- 23-
----                             ,~~ANNX  I
SRI LANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                   Page  2
SRI LANKA                     RERERE?EE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVUAGES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT         LOW INCOHE            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 95.0         99. 0     86. 0/d             80. 9                98. 6
MALE                 100.0        L04.0      89. Ojd             94.3                 99.2
FElALE                90.0        94.0       82.0/d              66.7                 97.7
SEIONDAIY:   TOTAL                 27.0         47. 0     47. 0Ld             26. 6                55. 5
MALE                  38.0        46.0       47.0/d              34.8                 60.7
FEMALE                16.0        48.0       48.0/d              18.2                 49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDAiR)    ..           1.0        1.0                9.9                  13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIKARY                            31.0           ..      29.0                41.1                 34.6
SECONDARY                            ..           ..        ..                20.5                 28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        75.0 /e      77.6      78.1                40.9                 85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          8. 0         7. 0      6. 8                1.8                  9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         36.0           ..      38.0                25.8                118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..                 2.4                 39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  36. 0        49.0        ..                13.4
CINEHA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0            ..       4.0                  ..                  4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LAB0R FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3390.9       4186.9    4930.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   22.6         23. 7     24.0                29.4                 36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              56.3         55. 1     54.0                70.5                 51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 13.5         14.4      15.0                11.6                 21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                34.3         33.5      34.6                37.9                 39.1
MALE                                 50.8         49.2      48.2                51.3                 48.5
FEMALE                               16.2         16.5      20.3                23.7                 29.6
ECONO8IC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3          1.4       1.2                 1.2                  1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INrCZE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 FERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.4            ..      18.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  52.1          43.4      42.8
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.5           7.5       7.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13. 7         19.2      19.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTr INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..               107. 8
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                86.5                192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOHE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                  ..                182.5
ESTIUIATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                46.2
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                51.7                 33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicacor are population-weighted arithmetic neans.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1963:  /d Due to changes in duration of levels in educaction, the ratios are not strictly comparable
over time;  /e 1962; /f 1972.
Most recent estimate of CNP per capits is for 1979. all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 24 -                                                                     ANNEX I
Page 3
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAl, iItICaTORS
Oc2et-   Acth-ugr. thu d-ta arc dra-   I'csll     ne   tonll  judged the most auhsnt                   n  tellble, It should also be notd sat theisy  toe be interl-
Th.ef ret.a.c    -tcpen               I-o' eo  ---tn  gnoup  f) tSr nub!'   .... coutrad il  aconty rop aith somehathigher a-e-ge  loom  thanseoesysgp
ja..t hato   h   ontintar hasf data  br that iodcoo  -  Sot  the  __nrg   of  -outreaa                                     theldiaoadepe-ds an the ana biitti Isof
daaad     I   c   ntt    ,ctlo.ttbe  cI.to  oreaion  a-esao     of tn    di_an-  -o anoher-   The.., -osge r  only o.stl inC . Iopnin  ni. o-1ue
LANS AREA (shoosen.d sqk.                                                                         ohutin.tosca    -..p.aation   -i-tc   by acmec t -pratsctag  Ph,-
Total - Totl.I_uc ternae        -oprisna  land arnaaod Lo1aoduaer.                                  itie. qolfced from  a   eica  schol                 ...nistey I.-aI.
ngjioliual -Ecciace  f ngcruluralareause  tepoarl  or Pe.aetp                      cuals             aaa'Pra   Populat Io didd  by esha .. t psati-
o-  crp.Paaurn,  sarkct end  ihtnhs  garden .. s tlie. tl.a; 197? data,                        mol  sodfeal  gsdoastse,Psciaassssdsstae                                     e .
GNP p-  -pft.                                      ~~~~~~~~~Panulati   oc UoetiNd - tonal. ubeba. sd s-1a   - Pepaltiem  (ntal,1
(Oil Pot CAPITO   tIll - ISP per  apita tsttaocta   r torrent caske  prtr-s  ca-  osha..and sosi)diolided by the is ...spcti,s smar ef thapits1 beds
colaced by Ns   o riococ   adWrl  an    cas(                    i7-9 el) ; 1960,                 avalable  in pohlio and psinase    --mls and spacilioad hespitsi aM in
1970, nd  l00ad.-                                                                                habllnitcaes. Hpitals  ee *o   -Sliats pa -a 'Iml  staffsd
stOOltI COsSItnPTllt td CuP:u - duusi tOouaptin  of ooscolalenray  (cal        tartare outInciode.  turd hosplnaa, hohsnasi  jlled. blch h                 ml  mshioa
and lgnite  petrleua.catur I ga  and htydro-, otatadantemlte-                             otns  ntprffnlpsald by a Pysle(onbasclaaeee.
dana.                                                                                 limited  scoga oP o'h  __t mdoltalltc   pastnsl.s typsa   sa                     ei
lotTtI,oyOb 000 0111 SoAOISICSccl. ia                                                ifade  -59. ps hiosi Nce-a ied stls_lecd h                  ppi ls. a    f11
lil.~~~_   .I      ,If.   1961, .97D,         i91hopItal                                   f_rl  s  arlositals  FeadmetlmdmtrIytte
Totl  oolatne  Hd-Yar(nllion   -A  of July 1; l9b0, 1970, and 1978                  edsissc-o  sen  nastel Red - fT.,   tnes  of admIssIon  to a  disah-sag
Oats                                                                                            frm   osisle divided by the ntb.p  of bads.
trite  Poc.la Iion (s-sceo  of-tcl         5m o  utnn   oa  Pottoanio-
aogootnia; lhO   197 0. and 1978 data-deesAc-  .  Sloe.o  doshoId   esa    hc ...acheWd  - tota.1ohe  egg  -.I-l
Pocolacion froleociont                                                 A itddsh..ohld' conIst  ofagsa   ot idlndml  eh. shone  ing 4nart.ns
PP.slanion loote r 2100  - Curren     ousioproetin                      .. icdI on l9ti        aod their metscl. A..         bordcorldur may at map non he inadad Is
total populacioc by oge end eon ccd their nosraliop aod ftrt ii my rates,  the hoosehold  tot moat istioci Purfossey It, ...h
froso  io   asnetssfo  mrtl sp  ets  oasie   f tin  lnea  sse-                  otag  nmhr  f1paoe  srrom    toal  aba.  adsasi    Asegana
Ine.  -Id fseo  fictleupcac    tigll itngal 07.5 Yet.   Th  pare-                  b-deelpin ... reepern-inelp                -b. ielig   .-ads- -n-'pideon   tsst sa
fertility  --codiog no i--oa  I.10    ad pas  ficaly PleI.         g  poforac.              ce    ofe-cit   (psc-ei of declliel-   El aha.edsoa 
Eahtod     pyI   thn"'Indon   ft ese 'ecmoalo   fmraIty                                      boovencicl dae11ingc aith  esti icyI  llivg quartsss      peltemnag
and fertcl Iy  orsode to  projantino Pupcc                                        of tocal. usbat. and rora1 dneilingss-apscn-lnl.
Stationary  ooosoo-lanaionc                    opltc   thorn  i. on gs-th niece
she bitsih late i  equa   toiodah rate, ad elan  the age  tatc    e
ma ma concuan.  This  a acittnd only oth rislility sates dettln  tOn=                                 1
Psmryshool       toa,metad feels  - Gross toal 1ml  and Seem
oft no merepieces iteelfe...colY.  The staionar   popolatflonais:Itosa                         -nroloo  of all agss at the pcim.sy 1-1 el asPrCetns's  of  -sP,ne""
ctImes"d  no the  acis of the p-J-eted caetreic of  h  popolalon                               pIay   rto-agc popciantono; nasail  gni- sathl   drsn ses  6-il
lo the peso  0100. aol ohe stte of decline of f-tilioyracet sepmce-pieas. bu-dh-                                  dto   lfrn   egeoo   rmr  smaim    o
Posulation isn Iitnedoc-nidnr-qols-st.least ioi-yyaae  tf ' appeve  primar  Imapl.tetn
total area.th1   a
Posualio  de  Sorotaa (csrcn) -Cbidseo(0-4 pere),nortingage(15            o       ialoan  s qolimat  et  roant of -. scadav  pp- dntieel-stttlm
Ad    q  ksaa)  -n  rairsd- (p1pyearsiso pe cr)a keentge  of0 si-y-ar Pd                         dnoiy. or -s dpatt..a.o seonar     -aLtaas.Mo
pen  pplat loafr               nd0-i   COh-7i-ad  b97-7f.                                        cresInd.    eele
-letoafr15-i   907,an.90O.asecnaeo  sonaladul    ..oltosaed1Wyr.adner
Trad  alotit gat  (or: titcand) ... dec  lIe   bith p erf.. fioc ad-yof mid-peartd
po 1min;6lOI,970o. ad6 19R   aa.T...O0Ti
pouaio rlti   9i.   sd07tdo,yae   saIng  ice  tite  ol ft percons; moieds  huaco,  ass
bet  orma  repod.atioeperiod      .11        .Ibepeloe   preeh   ag-se itf  id-          "1 Radio   I gca -es   leer   Iho -Iea   n diaiatdori      Al  oaf  se.slh ss   for rt d
al  s    pio e0m     in camo ag  grn.                                                 gonsafpatlbipr-thoa appprltin;  needd    alicmeddT-ry.ims
Ct.d.  -t  . '_   ) -AhI-1  ..th.p., I1I ....d  f  i-y.-               P....tetae  Cieculanlton iee   thoastand      -odaln   - Shows, th    -rsas   ini
loenpiFidl      rdacio   ntlal 19017l0d198dt9. il0)-  negocprcaiaraua                            i    of"dliS  g...eshl Inerest p snipaparn.  dafimbd1as a paridica  ssc
Pe,a_       asusrc   alre   rrcn   (rnYrmnm   Compooe.toombedtmoble unt. - 1VbiPrt                                                          .df-                               L-
etcrgyequinclett of nt fond euppilenavailatie. in counory  pefc it            ABRPOT
pwo dy.  Asliain  sopi ie  oprien domsi   pr-uto-         ipot        des        Tna  ao    oc  (thouans)-  loontam.. a.ly g-tbn .~ebssca  igldle
eoprti. adctoe   n,ok    innpla                      ld   nmlta,ses                   rd -hI   eg .  poblac and unhmpinydba  enldlgieosessiosi   tdtte TOV
MdntcOss aedi   odpoeco,cdlsn   ndctbso.Rqie                                               aInintn   ivooiueluntrh.a.               fo om TVaie  1961, 197  af
neP    aplp  f  ond     ys   Cp.Ntapl   ffo   adfnda   bv.a-                                  cdeecli d            atst   an  gasril   t e pesleatg    s of. nosZao1trs 
quiromans fcvS.  oih roon edinaotble tind  byt Ibi  psonidet for, ulniasm
aleoaso.cld.of hOnAg-gol, tota  prctlo pr  dsp-h' and 21geac"             aia 1970 and 1070  .dan.,  e    ,i,-Y-                                     .dI  h         btI
1171 1-_            liPksticla ldn date (s sth.  -., total. mi.sdfaled,d !       -. Paricipaio   ne
a-     It ore plonercha  thoiso ofp5 r-t of total- prti   od1   sn  0                          ecnagso   oal   aesdbeilclto                             fslsgaripciey
Child (ages  d-c) N ,,,.ido Oat  Ions iNton.odli:- Annul,deah  pe-        homu  is            no ths. tacal                   - ahon forte.- -,  .-d
mb       d data derdedffromIlotstables;Dlftii1970.and 197.data.bINC                                                                                 19D60TO197TiO
b   iEdl.T d                                                                                  Percahtc..e ofrPrivate rncome.1(bpi, dithcashF and tied).-fRecelnad by, riohost
Life T -ocuo  an_  HIrt   ner)-   ostage  oc ihe   ot yearn-o  lIfe  renatun et                                       0prss    ors   0pron.adpoo                             int
at . irtld I-th.   1970 and   19079dc, o. 97dt.f bouh ltg ld..  .1f                                                      '        ..     --    i6,1"0.d17    .
InatP    rano   asIe  titouafd) -00000  deth o-f intnt  uodf  one .Peas    PIPdT                      y TO pIGTc.llO0fPS     t-~%
of -geply tItosd lion irdby. Netastd-bsout Poert  lom   an (i$ erdoli)   asa!  adsasl 
ucea  to.. Sae dote  Coccn o   ositin_-ttu.ura. and  idsui -. dboltepoery   orn                                             level PI than incom   Isel tbnwic                Sa
Osos sppl  (Sluna trieate   eurtabli.hs tar  orD conasod bs                                                                                    ...neSntad ef19d60in
pescnoaon   f oeacrspotir   pouleion.S   nubnae    pil                                 ua   eaIopvryicm   io'YnsfI n                    -tile   of ane igspeecaita
fonan   rsunpe  lctd   o    er   hn  0    ats   so      tos   ayb  eroa  hcm  o   h  cacd               sa   le d i   ela   ro    h    aa
toodeeuchlosoti    ncnflOcs   fta  houee   7orura   areci                                  Clevlnist  adj.cmn   o   ias  ato.iig   tuha.c
resosbsurIanfh,,I   impl  chat th  ioaa.i aorm1dtt  upth-tuooliE-tmatd lsulsto  helo  ohnuePvryIom-Lvl(atmi-ah
do  onhae  c een  adiprotricat   pat  f  hedayivfeohoi  hoso roa   -  areo  o  poultin   trie  ndenaifsssoas  eaelngpavP
laid'  oase   need. th..f75__I_tf_ .                                            I                                       -1          -1 .___t..r
ucomacRI Ru costs Stacosal loesceat of dOtalatOin - total, urban" atd
rural- Noeer o  peope  (tnal.  sbao  mod  urci  so.'r-ned bynocrens19.   'glO   1 7   5dt                              h
disosld  as. pS-yoae   of1-5  1970sresdec977 poplatos..              cet   i-                                                   cnmi a,RcaPDttivao
Pniear c     nolude - the. toplleonf-    an  dipoel  n     -ub or       yff.dd.                   t.... - olhhcneamPhIonomi  dolpic sod, Fvojss Aifn                         tarr -
of humn onopna andteate-anso  b  oshe-coso e.yste1961 s6 th  use0 of7  d-.                .ber 1960 ..
pOt prfolee avd stDpidas ineesilatRtons.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 4
SRI LANKA: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
OUTPUT IN  1980 BY SECTOR                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (X, constant prices)
Value Added
Million    %                       1970-77        1977-80        1970-80
Agriculture                       1,038    27.6                       2.0              3.5           2.5
Industry a/                       1,116    29.6                       2.1              8.6           4.0
Services                          1,612    42.8                       3.7              7.6           4.9
Total b/                      3,766   100.0                       2.9             6.8           4.0
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1980
US$ Million          Z
GDP at Mlarket Prices                                4,130           100.0
Investment                                           1,480            35.8
Gross National Savings                                 675            16.3
Current Account Balance                                805            19.5
Exports of Goods and NFS                             1,295            31.3
Imports of Goods and NFS                             2,211            53.5
GOVERNM1ENT FINANCE
Central Government
(Rs Million)    X of GDP at Market Prices
1980          1975      1979      1980
Current Receipts c/                12,927           17.2      23.1       18.9
Current Expenditures d/             14,594          18.3      22.8      21.4
Current Surplus                    -1,667           -1.1       0.2      -2.4
Capital Expenditures e/             12,772           7.3      14.1       18.7
External Assistance                  5,717           3.2       7.2        8.4
a/  Manufacturing, mining, construction, and utilities.
b/  GDP at factor cost.
c/  Includes capital revenue.
WI  Includes advance accounts.
e/  Includes net lending.



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 5
SRI LANIKA: COUNTRY DATA
November
MONEY, CREDIT, AND PRICES                         1970       1975        1976       1977      1978       1979         1980
(end of period)                                                              (Rs Million)
Money and Quasi Money                            3,061      4,712      6,251      8,636    10,803    14,957         18,943
Bank Credit to Public Sector                     2,680      2,460      3,725      4,834     4,518      6,703        12,273
Bank Credit to Private Sector                    1,446      3,363      3,919      5,714      8,666    11,853        16,145
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as Z of CDP                 22.4       17.8        20.9      24.0       25.3      28.7
General Price Index (1970 - 100)                 100.0      143.3       145.2     147.0      164.8     182.6         230.3 a/
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                               +5.9       +6.7       +1.3       +1.2    +12.1       +10.8         +26.1 a/
Bank Credit to Public Sector                     +15.9      +9.4       +51.4      +35.0       -6.5     +48.4         +83.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector                     +0.7       +5.5      +16.5      +45.8     +51.7      +36.8         +36.2
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                       MIERCHIANDISE EXPORTS (1980)
1979      1980
(ISS Million)                                                        $ Million           %
Exports of Goods, NFS                      1,135      1,295                  Tea                                      373          35.7
Imports of Goods, NFS                      1,539     2,211                   Rubber                                   156          14.9
Resource Gap (deficit   -)                  -404      -916                   Coconut Products                          45           4.3
Interest Payments (net)                       -9        -12                  All Other Commodities                    471          45.1
Workers' Remittances                           -          -
Other Factor Payments (net)                   -7        -14                         Total                           1,045 b/      100.0
Net Transfers                                 48        137
Balance on Current Account                  -372       -805
Direct Foreign Investment                     47         43                EXTERNAL DEBT ($ liillion) c/
Net MLT Borrowing                            162        247
Disbursements                              225        309                                                      December         December
Amortization                                63         62                                                         1979            1980
Capital Grancs                               144        138
Other Capital (net)                          +67       +157                  Total Outstanding                     1,773.3          2,264.9
Change in Reserves (+ = increase)            +48       -220
Total Outstanding
Gross Reserves (end-year)                    626        377                    and Disbursed                       1,091.1         1,327.6
Net Reserves (end-year)                      258         38
DEBT SERVICE RATIO d/ (2)                   9.8              9.3
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                           IBRD/IDA LENDING, March 31, 1981 (S Million)
IBRD        IDA
1967-71                         End 1976
US$1.00 = Rs 5.93               USSI.0 0   Rs 8.83                           Outstanding and Disbursed                            30.5       106.2
Rs 1.00 = US$0.17               Rs 1.00 = US$0.11                            Undisbursed                                             -       255.8
Outstanding, including Undisbursed                  30.5        362.0
End 1972                        End 1977
US$1.0o  - Rs 6.70              US$1.00 = Rs 15.56
Rs 1.00 = US$0.15               Rs 1.00 = US$0.06
End 1973                        End 1978                                   Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificate (FEEC) Rates e/
US$1.00 = Rs 6.75               US$1.00 = Rs 15.51
Rs 1.00 = US$0.15               Rs 1.00 = US$0.06                          1968                        US$1.00 = Rs  8.54 (44% FEEC)
1969 to 1971                US$1.00 = Rs  9.19 (55% FEEC)
End 1974                        End 1979                                   1972 (end)                  US$1.00 = Rs 10.38 (55% FEEC)
US$1.00 = Rs 6.69               US$1.00 = Rs 15.45                         1973 (end)                  US$1.00 =Rs 11.13 (65Z FEEC)
Rs 1.00 = US$0.15               Rs 1.00 = US$0.06                          1974 (end)                  US$1.00 = Rs 11.04 (65% FEEC)
1975 (end)                  US$1.00 = Rs 12.72 (65% FEEC)
End 1975                        End 1980                                   1976 (end)                  USSI.00 = Rs 14.57 (65% FEEC)
US$1.00 = Rs 7.71               US$1.00   E Rs 18.00                       1977 (until Nov. 15)    US$1.00 = Rs 13.02 (65% FEEC)
Rs 1.00 - US$0.13               Rs 1.00 - US$0.06
a!  Full year data.
b/ Customs data.
ci Repayable in foreign currencies and with a maturity over one year.
d/ Ratio of debt service, excluding short-term capital repayments and IPF repurchases to exports of goods
and non-factor services.
e/  The certificates were abolished on November 15, 1977.
South Asia Programs Department
May 29, 1981



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1981)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                           Amount (net of
Credit                                                            cancellations)
No.  Year  Borrower          Purpose                        Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Eight loans and eight credits fully disbursed                 72.9   66.8
504    1974  Sri Lanka  Dairy Development                              9.0      5.7
666    1976  Sri Lanka  Tank Irrigation Modernization                  5.0      3.4
701    1977  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Development II                19.0      14.8
709    1977  Sri Lanka  Water Supply                                  9.2        .7
742    1977  Sri Lanka  DFC - Industrial IV                           8.0       1.8
818    1978  Sri Lanka  Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea)               21.0      17.3
819    1978  Sri Lanka  Tree Crop Diversification (Tea)               4.5       1.2
891    1979  Sri Lanka  Kurunegala Rural Development                 20.0      17.2
900    1979  Sri Lanka  Road Maintenance                             16.5      15.9
931    1979  Sri Lanka  Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research                        15.5      14.7
942    1979  Sri Lanka  Small and Medium Industries                  16.0      12.6
979    1980  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Technical
Assistance                                3.0       2.8
994    1980  Sri Lanka  Road Passenger Transport                     53.0      52.4
1017   1980  Sri Lanka  Rubber Rehabilitation                        16.0      15.8
1020   1980  Sri Lanka  Telecommunications                           30.0      30.0
1041   1980  Sri Lanka  Second Water Supply                          30.0      30.0
1048   1980  Sri Lanka  Sixth Power                                  19.5      19.5
1079   1981  Sri Lanka  Second Rural Development /a                  33.5      33.5
1130   1981  Sri Lanka  Construction Industry Project /a             13.5      13.5
Total,                                                        72.9  409.0    302.8
of which has been repaid                                   42.4    0.4
Total now outstanding                                         30.5  408.6
Amount sold,                               3.6
of which has been repaid                 3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b                           30.5    361.6
/a   Not yet effective.
74   Prior to exchange adjustments.
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of March 31, 1981)
Amount (US$ Million)
Year         Obligor                Type of Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1970  Pearl Textile               Textiles                   2.50   0.75      3.25
1977  The Development Finance   Development Banking
Corporation of Ceylon                                -      0.10     0.10
1978  Bank of Ceylon              Development Banking        2.00    -        2.00
1979  Cyntex                      Textiles                   3.15   0.53      3.68
1979  Mikechris Industries        Polypropylene Bag          0.90   0.10      1.00
1980  Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon   Development Banking          -      0.05     0.05
1980  LOLC                        Leasing                     -     0.26      0.26
Total Gross Commitments                          8.55   1.79    10.34
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                     3.78   0.74      4.52
Total Commitments now held by IFC               4.77   1.05       5.82



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 504 - Dairy Development Project; US$9.0 million of August 9, 1974;
Effective Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Project focus has been shifted from the provision of credit for
cattle purchase and on-farm development to the establishment of Dairy Producer
Associations along the lines of the successful Anand pattern in India. The
successful ongoing calf/heifer rearing and pasture production components have
been expanded. The closing date was extended by one year to permit Credit
proceeds to be used to finance preparation of the feasibility study for the
proposed milk processing plant near Kandy. The extension also provides IDA
with the opportunity to continue its dialogue with the Government on the
milk price/subsidy issue.
Cr. No. 666 - Tank Irrigation Modernization Project; US$5.0 million of
January 12, 1977; Effective Date: April 12, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Excellent progress has been made on the progress of the project
during the last six months. The staff and equipment provided are capable
and adequate to complete the project by end 1982 if required rupee funds
are made available by the Government as needed. However, the Government
currently is experiencing a severe shortfall of local funds and most Depart-
mental budgets have been sharply reduced (average of 25-35%). The water
management program initiated during the last maha season went very well (in
fact, the program averted a complete crop failure which would have occurred
due to drought conditions) and farmers' reaction to it was good. A similar
program will be introduced in the other four tanks during the next maha
season.
Cr. No. 701 - Mahaweli Ganga Development II Project; US$19.0 million
of June 27, 1977; Effective Date: December 29, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
A good start was made and project implementation continued to show
good progress. However, progress slowed somewhat during the last quarter of
1980 and 1981, due primarily to the shortage of local funds for the project.
Management problems and the turning over of settlement and operation and
maintenance responsibilities to Mahaweli Authority from Mahaweli Development
Board have also contributed to a slowing of work activities. The Government
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
AN4NEX II
Page 3
has agreed to provide sufficient funds in 1981 and 1982 for project imple-
mentation. Despite the above temporary setback, about 85% of the irrigation
works and 40% of irrigation infrastructure had been completed by April 1981.
Also, over 80% of the farms have now been settled. The farmer settlers appear,
for the most part, to be satisfied with their new farms and with the project.
The project is expected to be completed by end-1982.
Cr. No. 709 - Water Supply Project; US$9.2 million of June 30, 1977;
Effective Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The Project has made good progress in the procurement of equipment
and materials and in the construction of civil works. The IDA Credit and
the IDA administered CIDA Credit are almost entirely disbursed. Financial
Management of the National Water Supply and Drainage Board (WDB) has improved
with WDB now producing the financial information required for management.
WDB's progress in implementing consumer metering is unsatisfactory. It has
recently taken steps to accelerate the program.
Cr. No. 742 - Fourth Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Project;
US$8.0 million of September 30, 1977; Effective Date:
December 16, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Subprojects for U"$7.8 million, have been authorized. DFCC remains
a competent institution, with a rapidly increasing level of activity, which
could increase further now that DFCC's staffing problems are being addressed,
and possibilities for expanding DFCC's low equity base are being pursued.
Cr. No. 818 - Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea) Project; US$21.0 million
of July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 28, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project progress is close to target for field work, in spite of
severe drought in early 1980. Housing and health components are behind
schedule. Consultants have been engaged to help implement these components.
Tea margins have deteriorated due to doubling of tea fertilizer prices. The
Government is expected to take compensatory measures to restore tea margins.
Cr. No. 819 - Tree Crop Diversification (Tea) Project; US$4.5 million
of July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 15, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The National Agricultural Development and Settlement Authority,
the project executing agency, has developed into a mature development organi-
zation. Despite some delay in procurement of equipment, progress in field
work is impressive. Cluster selection and homestead and farm demarcation,
and soil conservation work have been completed. About 2,000 settlers have
occupied their houses. Farm planting schedule was disrupted by the severe
and prolonged drought last year. With better conditions this year, all
plantings are expected to be completed by end-1981.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 891 - Kurunegala Rural Development Project; US$20.0 million
of April 26, 1979; Effective Date: August 27, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is generally on schedule; rural electrification works
have already been completed; and rural roads and education works should be
completed by the end of the year. Problems on quality of construction of
irrigation and education works were identified at early stage of project imple-
mentation. Supervisory consultants, appointed for the Second Rural Development
Project (Cr. No. 1079), will help improve construction activities. Improve-
ments on the institutional arrangements for agricultural credit and agricul-
tural extension are somewhat slower than expected. High cost overruns were
noted in nearly all project components. Efforts are being made to cut down
cost by introducing farmes' donated labor for some of the activities.
Cr. No. 900 - Road Maintenance Project; US$16.5 million of June 22, 1979;
Effective Date: December 19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
A general 25% reduction in budget allocations for the present finan-
cial year, followed by a further 10%, has meant a rescheduling of proposed
expenditure for the project. This has been possible without sacrificing
principal project objectives but at the cost of deferring major rehabilitation
work until towards the end of the project. Meantime, institution building and
introduction of improved road maintenance methods continues, and providing it
is possible for Government to provide increased funds for subsequent years,
project completion is expected by March 1984, six months later than planned
at appraisal.
Cr. No. 931 - Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project; US$15.5
million of July 24, 1979; Effective Date: October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Implementation during the first year has been slower than anticipated
due to delays in procurement and staffing. Recently, however, most full time
staff have been recruited and procurement of vehicles and equipment are underway.
With these, implementation is likely to improve. Civil works are progressing
satisfactorily. Some questions have been raised as to the feasibility of
operating the T&V method of extension in the wet zones dominated by tree crops,
absentee landlord and inadequate infrastructure. These and other implementa-
tion issues would be reviewed by IDA and the Government in July, 1981.
Cr. No. 942 - Small and Medium Industries Project; US$16.0 million
of July 24, 1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal objectives of the project would be to encourage and
assist growth and productivity improvement of small and medium firms, defined
as enterprises having plant and equipment valued at less than Rs 1 million,
so as to increase their contribution to efficient low cost employment creation,
export expansion, regional development and economic growth. About 80% of the



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
total subloan amount has been committed, and disbursements which have acceler-
ated during the last six months, are expected to be completed one year ahead
of schedule. Most technical and marketing service assistance activities have
been launched.
Cr. No. 979 - Mahaweli Ganga Technical Assistance Project; US3.0 million of
April 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 7, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
The consultants for System C and Minipe Right Bank Transbasin Canal
are nearing the end of their consulting agreement with GOSL. The designs and
preliminary layouts of the irrigation system and hamlet infrastructure, for
the 1,000 ha sample area (actually 1,677 ha) have been completed and reviewed.
The preparation of working drawings for the transbasin canal is keeping pace
with the contractor's requirements. The consultants plan to phase out their
operations in June and July 1981. The consultants for the Transbasin Diversion
Study continue to make good progress, however delays in completion of topo-
graphic maps required for the Mi Oya Basin and the South East Dry Zone by
the Surveyor General's Department and the addition of a new study area have
delayed submission of the consultants' Planning Report by about five weeks.
The report will now be submitted by June 15, 1981 and a full review of the
consultants' alternative development plans is scheduled for the week of June
29, 1981 in Colombo between the consultants, GOSL and IDA. Additional staff
time will be required by the consultants, which was anticipated at the time
of contract approval. It appears adequate funds are available in the credit.
Cr. No. 994 - Road Passenger Transport Project; US$53 million of April 16,
1980; Effective Date: October 27, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Consultants have commenced work in the fields of procurement,
industrial engineering and accounting and route planning. Procurement is
lagging about 18 months behind appraisal estimates. No disbursements have
been made except for consultancy services. Because of the present delays,
the original plan of 2,100 bus chassis is unlikely to be accomplished either
in time or within the project costs. Current indications are that only 1,600
new buses will be put into service during the project period.
Cr. No. 1017 - Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project; US$16.0 million;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1986.
Most of the proposed institutional reorganization has been completed
and recruitment of extension staff is continuing. Preparation for the first
planting season (1981) is well underway. Response by farmers to participate
in replanting under the project has been highly satisfactory.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 1020 - Telecommunications Project; US$30.0 million of June 24, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The Government has already established a separate Telecommunications
Department as part of organizational improvements under the project. The
Government has also increased overseas telephone and telex rates. Procurement
is about two to three months behind schedule but all bid invitations are
expected to be issued by the end of September 1981.
Cr. No. 1041 - Water Supply and Sewerage II Project; US$30.0 million of
September 24, 1980; Effective Date: February 26, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
WDB has appointed engineering consultants to supervise the construc-
tion of the sewerage works under the Project and the financial consultants for
completion of WDB's organization management and financial study. On January
8, 1981, WDB signed an agreement for parallel financing in the amount of US$30
million with the Saudi Fund for Development.
Cr. No. 1048 - Sixth Power Project; US$19.5 million of September 24, 1980
Effective Date: March 30, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
Procurement is proceeding satisfactorily; tender documents for
four of the five contracts to be financed by IDA have been advertised. An
agreement for cofinancing in the amount of US$20.0 million was signed between
the Government and Saudi Fund for Development on January 8, 1981. The average
tariff for power supplied by the Ceylon Electricity Board was increased from
about Rs 0.30 to Rs 0.58/kWh on October 1, 1980. The first phase of manage-
ment consultancy has been completed and engineering consultants have been
appointed to design the project components to be financed by the Saudi Fund.
Cr. No. 1079 - Second Rural Development Project; US$33.5 million of February 2,
1981; Not Yet Effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The Credit Agreement was signed on February 2, 1981. Supervisory
consultants have been appointed and procurement of essential vehicles and
equipment initiated.
Cr. No. 1130 - Construction Industry Project; US$13.5 million of June 1, 1981;
Not Yet Effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The Credit Agreement was signed on June 1, 1981.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare the project
Fourteen months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Ministry of Mahaweli Development assisted by
consultants
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of the first mission to consider the project
November 1979
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
March 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
May 6, 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
October 1981
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:  Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Satisfactory arrangements for commitments for
co-financing (para 44);
(b) Establishment of the Mahaweli Economic Agency
(MEA) (para 32); and



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) Appointment of MEA Managing Director, four head office
Managers, and the Project Manager for System C (para 32).
Other Conditions
(a) The Government would allocate sufficient amounts of
water for the project from the Mahaweli Ganga (para 40);
(b)  The Government would implement a monitoring and evaluation
program, by September 30, 1982 (para 41);
(c) The Government would commence implementation of an ecology
conservation program, by March 31, 1982 (para 47);
(d) The Government would increase water charges to recover
at least the average cost of operation and maintenance
(para 52);
(e) The Government would also periodically review and may
further adjust the level of water charges with a view to
recover costs in addition to operation and maintenance
(para 52); and
(f) The Government would transfer the rights of newly irri-
gated land and houseplots to beneficiaries upon payment
for costs of land improvements (para 53).



:~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j~~~~~~~~~~~~~j~~~n                                                                                                                                                                                  ;
~~~~~~~~~) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~~~~~c 
Dmm






F  /    ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~  b   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                                                           ) ~~~~~~~~~ YCHINA
A  NI
I N D I A
F   O NNARUWA W                                                                                 <4jnerLANK   'I
Plannrd Brrr>4  X  A D  I S T R I C T                /                      -'A-CIAIV OCEAN            IN
77-                        rp"~~~~~~~~                         S   Aaagn 
wkSCOMOwA   \ 
SATRICTE                 |                   j         w                                             f                         5 L
VI' ~~~                                          ~~                                     ~I
J                                                                                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  ~ (OA  OCEAN. 
X  X                 F                   /"'             : /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' =-n 'i
MATA L E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/MO/R  T
'PETER VONR
He-b.          <£                       \..                                                     z   
R/ 
ruqKptte~~~ aOTSTvi                                                                 SRI LAIN]KA
u> ,    r,)  6)MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Area
Under Developmient by GOSL
Al-- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lProject Irigaled Areas
KAND                                                                                     E.~~~~~~~~~~~ i    ~ ~   isting Rice Cultivation
KAIuN                D                    $ m \  e-iiX Settlement Areas
EZ'IIZ^    Conservation Forests
DISTRI CT    .IA =                                  t     K/      DI S T R I C T               [777j Forest Plantotions, Cashew, Foelwaod, Grazing
OOAOOAA'iAZn    Existing Taoks
Tanks and Reservoirs Under Construction
A gricultrtl [evelopment Training Center and Farm
Towns
5I/rA BA NA                           ~~~~~~New Area Centers
g  jSA1SBANEV                                  0      New Village Centers
Mahiyangan  C6 ANAI                                Resident Project Engineer Ottices
0    Climatological Stations
!IA-ARA-                               -~~~~~~_____  Main, Roads
M- -       a-_- Mrket/ Link Roads
-        ' t  ' Proposed Main and Branch Canals
________  Proposed Distribution Canols
71*--                                         -         Bronch Canal Under Construction
Ex Fisting Mouin and Branch Canols
HtP'"r r x<   r,,  Z/A 0(4 + d                    =    BYRivers and Streams
......Zone Boundaries
System C Boundary
District Boundaries
Minip, Anicut                    --
ciiovtenrasv   i  2   3  0   5  A   7  8   PlO~~ ~~0 r
XILOMETERS 0   1    2 3   4               5 7     10
L fMILES0   1     2     3      4.   5'      O_6o



