Document of
The World Bank    F ILE CtIY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3128-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
May 26, 1981
South Asia Projects Department
Agricultural Division A
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1    =    Rs 18.0
Rs 1         US$0.0556
UNITS AND EQUIVALENTS
1 millimeter (mm)       =    0.0394 inches (in)
1 meter (m)             =    3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)        =    0.6214 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)          =    2.4711 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)         =    2.2046 pounds (lb)
1 mstric ton (ton)      =    1.0161 long tons (1 ton)
1 m /sec                =    35.3357 cubic feet/sec (cusec)
1 bushel of paddy             20.8655 kg
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED
AO    -   Agricultural Officer
ARTI  -   Agricultural Research and Training Institute
ASC   -   Agrarian Service Center
BC    -   Bank of Ceylon
CB    -   Central Bank
DPM   -   Deputy Project Manager
ERR   -   Economic Rate of Return
FD    -   Food Department
FSS   -   Food Stamp Scheme
GOSL  -   Government of Sri Lanka
GPS   -   Guaranteed Price Scheme
ICB   -   International Competitive Bidding
LCB   -   Local Competitive Bidding
LHG   -   Low Humic Gley Soils
MASL  -   Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka
MDB   -   Mahaweli Development Board
MEA   -   Mahaweli Economic Agency
MMD   -   Ministry of Mahaweli Development
MPCS  -   Multipurpose Cooperative Society
NPW   -   Net Present Worth
OCC   -   Opportunity Cost of Capital
OER   -   Official Exchange Rate
PB    -   People's Bank
PMB   -   Paddy Marketing Board
PV    -   Present Value
RBE   -   Red Brown Earths
SCF   -   Standard Conversion Factor
SER   -   Shadow Exchange Rate
SLCC  -   Sri Lanka Cashew Corporation
SMS   -   Senior Subject Matter Specialist
SV    -   Switching Value
T&V   -   Training and Visit
WFP   -   World Food Programme
WMA   -   Water Management Assistant
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   -    December 31



SRI LANKA                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   SECTORAL BACKGROUND  ......        ..................                             1
General       ..........................1.......................... 
Agricultural Sector .......          .................                             2
Irrigation Subsector ......          ................ .                           3
The Mahaweli Ganga Development Program  .... ............                         4
The Bank Group's Role in Mahaweli Ganga Development                   ........    5
Review of Implementation Progress of Mahaweli Ganga
Development Project II ..................................                      6
II.  PROJECT AREA ...............................................                        6
General  ....................................................                     6
Climate  ....................................................                     7
Topography and Drainage  ....................................                     8
Soils and Land Suitability for Development  ....                 .............    8
Agricultural Supporting Services.                                                 8
III.   THE PROJECT ................................................                      10
General ....................................................                     10
Principal Project Features  .................................                    10
Description of Project Works,  Facilities,  and Programs                         11
Cashew and Fuelwood Plantations  ............................                    19
Water Supply and Demand  ....................................                    19
Monitoring and Evaluation ..................................                     20
Technical Assistance  .......................................                    21
Cost Estimates  .............................................                    22
Implementation and Settlement Rate  .........................                    23
Financing  ..................................................                    24
Procurement Under the IDA Credit  ...........................                    25
Disbursement  ...............................................                    25
Accounts and Audits  ........................................                    26
Environmental  Impact  .......................................                   26
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .28
Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka  ............................                    28
Mahaweli Development Board .28
Mahaweli Economic Agency  ...................................                    29
Agricultural Supporting Services  ...........................                    30
Project Design and Construction ............................                     31
Monitoring and Evaluation ..................................                     31
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission that visited Sri
Lanka in March-April 1980 comprised of Messrs. T.H. Yoon, S. Baker, A. Seager,
W. Nickel, W. Peters, R. Goodland (IDA), R. Tekrony, R. Claringbould, and
J. Christopher (Consultants). Representatives of the EEC also participated
in project appraisal as a potential co-financier.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont.)
Page No.
Operation and Maintenance ..................................   31
Giranduru Kotte Irrigation Training Center and Farm ........   32
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES, FARM INCOME, AND
COST  RECOVERY   ............................................  33
Agricultural Development with the Project ....    ..............   33
Future Development without the Project .....................   34
Yields  and  Production   ......................................  34
Marketing and Pricing of Project Output ....................   35
Farm  Income   ................................................  38
Cost  Recovery   ..............................................  40
VI.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS .........................   43
Overview   ...................................................  43
Employment and Income Effects ..............................   43
Direct Foreign Exchange Effects ............................   44
Benefits to the Economy and Economic Analysis .44
Project Risks and Sensitivity Tests ........................   47
VII.    RECOMMENDATIONS   ............................................  49
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1
Table I   : Climatological Factors Related to Estimating Crop Water
Requirements
Table 2   : Commanded Land Class Inventory in System C
Table 3   : Expected Use of Commanded Land in System C
Table 4     Irrigation and Drainage System Summary-Zones 3 to 6 of
System C
Table 5     Social Infrastructure Buildings
Table 6     Social Infrastructure Buildings (Zones 3 to 6 only)
Table 7   : Management and Operational Infrastructure
Table 8   : Facilities to be Provided at the Agricultural Training
Center and Farm
Table 9     Settlement Assistance and Monitoring Programs
Table 10    Estimated Flow of the Mahaweli Ganga at Minipe
Table 11    Irrigation Water Requirements for Flooded Rice
Table 12    Estimated Total Yearly Water Requ rements for System C
at Head of Transbasin Canal (Mm )
Table 13    Estimated Annual Operation & Maintenance Costs
Table 14  : Cost Estimate Summary
Table 15  : List of Equipment and Vehicles
Table 16  : Schedule of Expenditures
Table 17  : Proposed Allocation of the Credit
Table 18    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements



- iii -
Table of Contents (cont.)
Chart 1   :  Schematic Future Cropping Pattern
Chart 2   : Comparison of River Flow at Minipe with Project Irrigation
Diversion
Chart 3   : Implementation Schedule
Chart 4   :  Procurement Schedule for Civil Works
Procurement Schedule for Equipment and Materials
Chart 5   : Organization Structure at Project Level
Chart 6   : Organization Structure at Block and Unit Level
Chart 7   : Schedule and Cost of Staff and Farmer Training
ANNEX 2   : Terms of Reference for Consulting Services
ANNEX 3
Table 1       Paddy Area and Production; Rice Availability, Procurement,
and Distribution, 1970-79
Table 2   : Project National Rice Balances
Table 3   : Summary of System C Cropped Area, Yields, and Production
ANNEX 4
Table 1   :  Prices Used in Financial and Economic Aanlyses
Table 2   : Crop Input Requirements
Table 3   : New Settler Farm Budget (Paddy - Paddy Rotation)
Table 4   : New Settler Farm Budget (Broadcast Paddy - Upland Annual
Crops Rotation)
Table 5   : New Settler Farm Budget (Perennial Crops)
Table 6   : Farm Budgets of Existing Farmers with Irrigated Holdings in
Major Tank Schemes (Paddy - Paddy Rotation)
Table 7   : Farm Budget of Existing Farmer With Irrigated Holding in
Minor Tank Scheme
Table 8   : Economic Cash Flow
Table 9   : Relative Importance of Project Cost and Benefit Streams with
Switching Values
Chart 1(a):  Locus of Present Values of Total Project Costs and Benefits
Chart l(b):  Locus of Total Project Cost and Benefit Switching Values
ANNEX 5   : Related Documents and Background Papers in Project File
MAPS
IBRD 13477R1 - Sri Lanka Mahaweli Ganga Development Project:
Existing and Proposed Irrigation Schemes
IBRD 15154   - Sri Lanka Mahaweli Ganga Development Project






SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Staff Appraisal Report
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
General
1.01      Sri Lanka is endowed with relatively favorable resources and
diverse agro-climatic conditions that permit wide ranging agricultural pur-
suits. It also possesses a highly literate population and has achieved
considerable success in curtailing population growth. Sri Lanka comprises
a total area of about 65,600 sq km, with an estimated population of about
14.9 M (mid-1981). While population has been increasing at about 2% p.a.
in recent years, emigration has reduced this growth to about 1.7%.  Per capita
GDP is about US$280, with only about 25% of the population estimated to have
annual incomes below the poverty level of US$105 per capita. 1/ About 76% of
Sri Lanka's inhabitants live in rural areas and are principally dependent
directly or indirectly on agriculture.
1.02      In contrast to its considerable social progress, Sri Lanka's eco-
nomic performance has until recently been characterized by low output and
employment growth. Real per capita GDP grew at 2.1% p.a. during the 1960s,
but subsequently declined to 1.3% p.a. during the 1970-76 period; aggravated
by deteriorating terms of trade, per capita gross national income rose between
1970-76 by only 0.9% p.a. Slowdown in economic growth in the 1970s was attri-
butable to a combination of factors including a series of partial failures of
monsoon rains, inadequate investment, ineffective and inappropriate government
policies toward growth and investment, and a sharp rise in the cost of imported
food and fuel. This disappointing economic performance contributed to increased
open unemployment.
1.03      With the new government elected in 1977 came broad policy changes
designed to address economic stagnation. The new Government of Sri Lanka
(GOSL) identified its objectives as reviving the economy and increasing
employment through: (a) greater capacity utilization in the productive
sectors; (b) stimulation of savings and investment; and (c) efforts to boost
exports and foodgrain import substitution. Major changes included exchange
rate unification at a depreciated rate, import trade liberalization, interest
rate increases to encourage savings, abolition of price controls on most
commodities, fiscal reforms, and upward revision in agricultural procurement
prices. Between 1978-80, GOSL took further steps to complement earlier
reforms including: (a) moves to eliminate public sector import monopolies
with respect to food and fertilizer; (b) establishment of new autonomous
authorities to carry out high priority programs; and (c) initiation of a
number of lead investment schemes including the Accelerated Mahaweli Ganga
Development Program, new housing and urban development, and establishment of a
free trade zone north of Colombo.
1/   Preliminary World Bank estimates, mid-1980.



1.04      Sri Lanka's economy reacted vigorously to these new policies.  Real
GDP grew by an impressive 8.2% in 1978, by 6.3% in 1979, and by 5.8% in 1980.
In the new economic climate, the private sector responded well. Accelerated
growth and investment helped ease the pressures of open unemployment. Never-
theless, by 1980 it became clear that GOSL's strategy carried certain risks.
Overheating of the economy, stemming largely from the ambitious public invest-
ment program was reflected in a sharp increase in inflation (implicit 1980 GDP
deflation factor of 24%) and the emergence of a severe balance of payments
problem necessitating a sizeable drawdown of reserves in 1980. Domestic
inflation has been aggravated by large and frequent price adjustments geared
to remove subsidies, administered wage increases, heavy demand on the limited
capacity of the construction sector, deficit financing, and adverse external
price developments. GOSL has begun to address these problems, most notably
through a recent substantial reduction in investment allocations in the 1981
budget and on-going scrutiny for further cuts in future expenditures and for
increased resource mobilization.
The Agricultural Sector
1.05      Agriculture plays a major role in the Sri Lanka's economy, account-
ing in 1980 for about 28% of total GDP, over 50% of total employment, about
60% of export earnings, and about 29% of government revenues. In addition,
much of the activity in the manufacturing, transport, and service sectors is
related either to supply of agricultural inputs or processing of agricultural
output. In rural areas, dependence on agriculture is almost total with over
95% of the population either directly or indirectly involved in agriculture.
Sri Lanka's climate is suitable for year-round cultivation, and variations in
precipitation, topography, temperature, and soils enable production of a wide
range of crops. Out of about 2.24 M ha under permanent cultivation (34% of
land area), paddy accounts for 0.65 M ha; tree crops (coconut, tea, and
rubber), 0.93 M ha; and other perennial crops, 0.04 M ha.  The remaining
0.62 M ha comprises mixed rainfed farming, mostly as small gardens around
homesteads. An additional 1.0 M ha are under shifting slash and burn cultiva-
tion, locally known as chena.
1.06      Policy changes recently introduced by GOSL in the agricultural
sector were a response to the disappointing growth recorded in the early and
mid-1970s. Average growth, 3.4% p.a. during the 1960s, had declined to only
1.9% p.a. over the 1970-77 period. Initial response to new policy initiatives
was encouraging. Recovery of agriculture actually started in 1977 with a
10.4% increase in agricultural production stemming from a 33.2% boost in paddy
production. This fine performance was followed in 1978 by a further 5.4% rise
in agricultural production--the first sustained increase since the late 1960s.
Paddy, increasing by 12.6%, accounted for most of this increment and was
undoubtedly helped by a 21.2% adjustment in the publicly guaranteed (GPS 1/)
price in November 1977. Growth in agricultural production declined to only
1/   Guaranteed Price Scheme.



- 3 -
2.0% in 1979 mainly due to drought but rose to 3.1% 1/ in 1980 despite con-
tinued abnormally low rainfall in the yala season. 2/
1.07      GOSL had hoped to achieve an ambitious target of 2.21 M tons of
paddy in 1980, 15.3% above the record 1979 crop of 1.92 M tons. However,
this appears to have been somewhat optimistic given the severe delay in the
SW monsoon and its resulting impact on the 1980 yala crop. 2/ Based on
preliminary statistics, the total 1980 paddy crop is estimated at about
2.13 M tons. Generally, favorable weather during the maha season, the overall
liberalized environment, and the initial impact of the Mahaweli Program were
chiefly responsible for such success in paddy output. To maintain producer
incentives, the GPS paddy price was raised by 31% during the 1980/81 maha
season, partly to offset fertilizer price increases of 55-136% introduced in
January 1981.
Irrigation Subsector
1.08      Annual mean rainfall in Sri Lanka's wet and intermediate agro-
climatic zones, located in the southwest quadrant of the island, ranges from
about 2,200 to 3,900 mm and is fairly well distributed throughout the year.
Paddy can be grown in these zones under rainfed conditions, not only in the
maha season, but in some areas in the yala as well. Irrigation development
in the wet zone has been limited primarily to run-of-the-river diversion.
In contrast, annual rainfall in the dry zone, averaging about 1,300 mm, is
concentrated in the maha season and displays considerable year-to-year vari-
ability. Irrigation, therefore, is essential for cultivation in the yala
season, and some supplemental irrigation is often necessary for the maha crop.
The dry zone, containing about 285,000 ha of irrigated land, accounts for
about 78% of the total irrigated area. Traditional irrigation schemes are
based on storage tanks designed to provide supplemental irrigation to the maha
crop, with any residual water used for limited dry season cropping. There are
a total of about 180 such schemes having a storage capacity in excess of 2.5 M
m (irrigating nearly 162,000 ha) and a large number of smaller schemes.
Traditionally, maintenance of these schemes has been the responsibility of
farmers, with only major headworks and main canals under government purview.
Water is allowed to flow continuously, running from field to field with only
limited development of tertiary channels. Not only have most schemes deterior-
ated, but initial designs were also highly wasteful. With proper operation,
improved water management practices, and introduction of appropriate cropping
systems (in particular to optimize use of rainfall and to diversify into
non-paddy crops on more permeable soils), substantial increases in cropped
areas could be attained with existing water supplies. Therefore, under the
ongoing Tank Irrigation Modernization and Mahaweli II Projects (Crs. 666-CE
and 701-CE), Rural Development Projects I (891-CE) and II (1079-CE), and the
1/   Provisional estimate.
2/   Maha is the northeast monsoon season (October-February); yala is the
southwest monsoon season (April-September).



-4-
proposed Village Irrigation Rehabilitation Project 1/, IDA is providing
support for improved water management and a prototype for future development
of other dry zone tanks.  For the longer-term, GOSL is emphasizing expansion
of irrigated agriculture into the dry zone through development of Sri Lanka's
major river basins, such as the Mahaweli Ganga Basin.
The Mahaweli Ganga Development Program 2/
1.09      The basic objectives underlying the Mahaweli Ganga Development
Program stem from a need to overcome three major problems facing Sri Lanka:
(a) unemployment; (b) excessive imports of food and other agricultural pro-
ducts; and (c) a shortage of power for industrial development and rural
electrification. About 225,000 farm families would be settled on newly
developed land, and over a million people would be employed in agricultural
and allied pursuits. Agricultural output would reduce the need to import rice
and other food items for which the foreign exchange bill was about US$425 M in
1980, or about 40% of export earnings.
1.10      The Program is based on a Master Plan prepared jointly by a UNDP/FAO
team and Sri Lankan engineers in 1965-68. The Plan envisaged development
of about 365,000 ha of irrigable land in the dry zone, as well as about 500
MW of hydropower. It was divided into three phases, each including several
projects for stepwise implementation over a 30-year period. Implementation
of the Plan began in 1970 (para 1.13). Late in 1977, however, GOSL realized
that at the current rate of construction and population growth, the Program
would not have much near-term impact in mitigating the unemployment problem
and serious food and power shortages, and that it should be accelerated.
An Implementation Strategy Study was carried out with financing from the
Netherlands to: (a) review and re-evaluate the UNDP/FAO Master Plan and each
of its separate projects; (b) examine the implications of various alternative
phasings of the feasible projects; and (c) recommend a specific action plan
taking into account technical, financial, economic, institutional, and manpower
constraints. While the Study was underway, GOSL selected five major projects
comprising five dams and hydropower plants with a total potential capacity
of 500-600 MW of power and downstream development of about 112,000 ha to be
included under its Accelerated Program. Donors were approached for support
for different components of the program and responded promptly. Meanwhile,
the Study, which was completed in late 1979, concluded that (a) the base costs
of the overall Program had been greatly under-estimated; (b) two of the five
projects (Randenigala and Moragahakanda) were not required for irrigation in
the Accelerated Program, as the Kotmale, Victoria and the Maduru Oya Dams
1/   Board presentation scheduled for June 1981.
2/  'The Mahaweli Ganga Development Program or Scheme, as shown in the UNDP/
FAO Mahaweli Ganga Master Plan of 1968, includes about 365,000 ha of net
irrigable land situated in the Mahaweli Ganga and Maduru Oya Basins
(192,000 ha) and the North-Central part of Sri Lanka (173,000 ha). The
Accelerated Mahaweli Development Program encompasses about one-third of
the Scheme's net irrigable area, representing Systems A, B, C, D-1, D-2,
E, F, and G.



- 5 -
would provide sufficient regulation to irrigate the entire Accelerated area;
(c) power demand studies confirmed that substantial additions to existing
capacity were needed (later feasibility studies justified proceeding with
Randenigala on the basis of power alone).
1.11      GOSL accepted these conclusions and revised the Accelerated Program
accordingly. Initial works of the Program (1980-85) were confined to four
headworks projects having a total installed capacity of about 500 MW (Kotmale,
financed partly by Swedish import support funds; Victoria, by a L 100 M grant
from the UK; Maduru Oya, by a Canadian loan of C$76 M; and Randenigala, by a
DM 400 M loan from the Federal Republic of Germany). Downstream development
was to be limited to about 60,000 ha in Systems B and C together with the
Minipe Anicut, the Right Bank Transbasin Canal, and the Ulhitya and Ratkinda
Reservoirs. The US is providing finance for downstream development of the
Maduru Oya Project (System B) (US$90 M) and has financed an in-depth study of
the environmental impact of the Accelerated Program (paras 3.48-3.51). Canada
and the UK financed feasibility studies of Systems B and C, respectively. The
EEC is supporting development of Zone 2 in System C, while the Asian Develop-
ment Bank is providing assistance to plan and construct roads in the Accele-
rated Program area. Under a technical assistance credit, IDA and the EEC are
financing consultancy services to review designs and tender documents for the
Transbasin Canal and for the detailed designs and engineering of irrigation
infrastructure in System C (para 3.38). Even though the Bank Group has
assisted in Mahaweli development over the last decade (para 1.13), the pro-
posed project in System C would mark its first area development effort under
the Accelerated Program.
1.12      The overall costs of the Program have risen substantially during
the past years, due to rapid domestic and international inflation and to
the increased costs associated with more difficult site conditions for the
Kotmale project than originally estimated. GOSL responded to this by making
various adjustments (such as reducing the height of Kotmale Dam and deferring
downstream development on the right bank of System B). Nevertheless, expen-
ditures on the program are projected at US$1.6 billion in the 1981-85 period,
or about 44% of projected resources for the entire public investment program.
Such an ambitious program will strain available financial and real resources,
particularly in 1982 and 1983. Financial constraints can be minimized to the
extent that donors step up assistance levels for the Program and GOSL increases
its own domestic resource mobilization efforts. Some donors have already
moved in this direction, and GOSL proposes to take measures to raise domestic
resources.
The Bank Group's Role in Mahaweli Ganga Development
1.13      With Bank Group assistance, initial construction in the Program
began in 1970 (Cr. 653-CE and Ln. 174-CE) with diversion headworks at Polgolla
on the Mahaweli Ganga and at Bowatenna on the Amban Ganga, including a 40 MW
hydro-power plant at Polgolla. The project was completed in 1978. This
project provided an improved water supply to about 52,650 ha of existing
irrigated land and new irrigation to about 29,000 ha in System H. A project
completion report for Mahaweli I indicates that the project was well designed
and is fulfilling its objectives. Under the second IDA credit (Cr. 701-CE),



-6-
with co-financing from Canada, the Netherlands, UK, US, and EEC, construction
work is in progress on irrigation infrastructure for about 60% of this 29,000
ha newly irrigated area. 1/   The project also includes settlement assistance
and agricultural extension and support services. Under a technical assistance
credit (Cr. 979-CE), IDA, with EEC co-financing, is providing technical assis-
tance for a study to determine optimal use of surplus water from the Mahaweli
Ganga. In addition to financing earlier Mahaweli projects, the Bank has also
assisted GOSL in its efforts to accelerate the Program, principally through
external assistance coordination for project preparation and implementation.
Review of Implementation Progress of Mahaweli Ganga Development Project II
1.14      About 85% of irrigation system works and 40% of social infrastruc-
ture were completed by April 1981. The remaining works are planned to be
completed by end 1982. GOSL has agreed to provide sufficient funds from
within its Mahaweli Program allocation to ensure successful completion of
the Project by end 1982. Actual disbursements from the IDA Credit were
about US$5.1 M at the end of April 1981, compared with an appraisal estimate
of about US$16.0 M. The rate of disbursements achieved understates actual
implementation progress principally because of the devaluation of the rupee
since appraisal, resulting in lower foreign exchange values for civil works
for which the IDA Credit and Netherlands and EEC loans are mainly disbursed.
Since no concomitant adjustments in disbursement percentages were made,
disbursements against foreign exchange equivalents of civil works costs have
been much lower than anticipated. IDA has agreed to a recent GOSL request to
increase disbursement percentages for civil works. Also, GOSL implementing
agencies have been successful in effecting economies in construction costs and
by using previously acquired equipment, which resulted in lower disbursements
than anticipated. In view of the above, some funds from the IDA Credit may
not be utilized and may be cancelled. The recovery of land improvement and
O&M costs of the irrigation system in the Project was to be carried out under
the Sale of State Lands Law No. 43 of 1973 and the Land Betterment Law of
1977. However, neither of these laws could be effectively implemented as a
series of technical and procedural problems arose which defied resolution.
GOSL has again provided for the recovery of costs of O&M through water charges
under the Irrigation Ordinance No. 32 of 1946. It has also provided for the
transfer of land to settlers upon payment for costs of land improvements under
the Land Development Ordinance of 1936 as amended by an act in April 1981.
The technical and procedural arrangements for the implementation of these laws
are now being made and are expected to be finalized by September 30, 1981.
These laws will be implemented nationwide and will cover all settlers within
the Mahaweli Ganga Development Project II area.
II. PROJECT AREA
General
2.01      The project area comprises the northern half of System C (Map
13477R1), totalling about 66,700 ha situated in the east-central sector of
1/   GOSL independently undertook development of the remaining 40%.



- 7 -
Sri Lanka. System C comprises about 24% of the area to be irrigated under
the Accelerated Mahaweli Program and represents about one half of the down-
stream development area to be served by the Victoria Dam Project, a principal
component of the Accelerated Program (para 1.10). The proposed project would
cover specifically Zones 3-6 of System C and include a net irrigated area of
18,500 ha out of the 66,700 ha gross System C area. The project would also
include activities to facilitate the development of System C as a whole
(para 3.01). Located along the right bank of Mahaweli Ganga just downstream
from the Minipe Anicut, System C extends about 70 km north and, at its widest
part, 20 km east from the Mahaweli River (Mahaweli Ganga). The Right Bank
Transbasin Canal forms the eastern boundary of the project area to its mid-
point at Ratkinda Oya Reservoir (Map 15154). Situated in Badulla, Polonnaruwa,
and Amparai Districts, System C traverses both the intermediate and dry agro-
climatic zones. At present, permanent settlements have been established in
only the southern part of the System, principally around three rehabilitated
major tanks, minor village tanks, and small lift irrigation schemes.
2.02      Gradually over the last 25 years, unsanctioned encroachment has
destroyed a large portion of the forest cover north of these settlements.
As a result, by 1979 only the northwest third of the area remained under
relatively dense mixed evergreen forest, all located within the project area.
However, traces and roads have since been cut into the forest to enable soil
and topographic surveys and timber extraction to be undertaken, thereby making
the area increasingly accessible to encroachers and illicit timber removal.
Much of the 29,000 ha of forested area in the northern part of System C is
currently being cleared of marketable timber in preparation for settlement
and agricultural development.
2.03      Most of the northern half of System C has no infrastructure or
resident population. The southern half is more developed and contains about
95% of the estimated 30,000 inhabitants (1979) within the System. About 80%
of the population is engaged directly in agriculture. Such activities are
basically confined to Zone 1 where about 1,770 ha of irrigated paddyland is
served mainly from several major tanks and 1,800 ha is served from small
scattered tanks. In Zones 2-6, another 500 ha of rainfed and partially
irrigated paddy and about 3,000 ha of chena are cultivated each year. Recent
pressure on land has been such that areas are being brought under chena again
before forest growth regenerates from the previous slashing cycle. Communica-
tions, health, education, and technical services are concentrated around the
town of Mahiyangana at the southern end of the System. Most farm families
outside the areas serviced by tanks earn less than Rs 3,600 p.a. (US$200),
the eligibility level for the national Food Stamp Scheme (FSS).
Climate
2.04      System C lies partly in the intermediate climatic zone and partly
in the dry zone. The project area (Zones 3-6) is located principally in the
dry zone. Annual mean rainfall varies from about 2,250 mm in the southern
end of System C (Zones 1-2) to about 1,750 mm in the north. About 60% of
this rainfall occurs during the NE monsoon period of November-February (maha),
and the balance, during the SW monsoon period of May-September (yala). The
unpredictability of rainfall in the maha makes irrigation necessary to ensure
high and stable yields. Crop cultivation during the yala is almost entirely



- 8 - I
dependent on irrigation. The climate is tropical with maximum temperatures
ranging from 30 to 36 0C and minimum temperatures, from 20 to 24 0C, making
year-round cropping feasible (Annex 1, Table 1). Winds are gusty in the yala
season.
Topography and Drainage
2.05      Potentially irrigable land in the northern half of System C is
scattered in irregular blocks. Area lands are undulating and incised with
numerous gullies. North-south inclined ridges, some rather steep and high,
are prevalent and result in a sharp distinction between irrigable soils in
valleys and shallow, non-irrigable, sloping land on sides of ridges. Land
slopes in this area range from the almost flat bottom to slopes of 6-10% on
sidehill areas. Slopes in major blocks to be developed range from 0-6%,
with an average of 1-3% over most of the area. Because of the diverse
erosional pattern, shallow natural drainageways have developed in more steeply
sloping areas. The coarser, freely draining soils located on higher lands
are mostly underlain by bedrock at relatively shallow depths. The southern
portion of System C (Zones 1-2), in comparison, is flatter and exhibits an
average slope of 1-2%.
Soils and Land Suitability for Development
2.06      System C soils consist mainly of two types:  poorly drained Low
Humic Gleys (LHGs) in flat valley bottoms, and relatively better draining Red
Brown Earths (RBEs) in higher, more steeply sloping areas. Between these two
types are intermediate, imperfectly drained soils. RBEs are subject to high
erodability due to poor structure, and the majority of these are underlain
with bedrock at depths ranging from 2-3 m, as are many of the imperfectly
drained soils. Soil salinity, alkalinity, and other possible adverse proper-
ties such as iron toxicity will not be problems for agricultural development
considering (a) area rainfall levels and quality of water to be used for
irrigation, and (b) drainage proposed. Available data indicate that soil
acidity will not be significant.
2.07      Project area lands are predominantly more suitable for paddy than
other crops because of the soil-water regimen expected to develop with forest
removal and irrigation. Prevailing characteristics of shallow soil to drain-
age or construction barrier (bedrock) preclude the irrigation of crops that
must be "irrigated dry" because of the high cost of subsurface drainage
required. Relatively small non-contiguous parcels exist, however, that would
be suitable for such diversified cropping. These areas were not identified
during feasibility studies, but would be determined during detailed investi-
gations carried out during pre-construction activities. A land use inventory,
based on earlier semi-detailed soil surveys and preliminary land use studies,
is shown in Annex 1, Table 2.
Agricultural Supporting Services
2.08      At present, no agricultural supporting services are available in
Zones 3-6 or in the northern part of Zone 2. Zones 1-2 contain normal trad-
ing and infrastructure facilities. Mahiyangana and, to a lesser extent,



- 9 -
Alluterama are the only trading centers of significance. In these latter
zones, fertilizers, pesticides, and seeds are readily available through
Agrarian Service Centers (ASC) as well as from private traders. Banking
facilities for short- and medium-term credit also exist; however, agricultural
extension services are understaffed. The latter are scheduled to improve as
implementation of with the IDA-supported nationwide Agricultural Extension
and Adaptive Research Project (Cr. 931-CE) gains momentum.
2.09      Rural Credit.  Institutional rural credit in Sri Lanka is disbursed
principally by the two nationalized commercial banks, the People's Bank (PB)
and the Bank of Ceylon (BC). 1/ PB operates through Multipurpose Cooperative
Societies (MPCS) and their banking divisions, Cooperative Rural Banks.  BC
provides credit services through its main branches with representation main-
tained at ASCs. National rural credit policy is established by a Rural Advisory
Board chaired by the Governor of the Central Bank (CB). CB's Department of
Rural Credit functions as the Board's secretariat and executive. PB maintains
a branch office in System C only at Mahiyangana, and BC has representation
there through the local ASC.
2.10      A long-standing problem of rural credit in general, and agricultural
credit in particular, has been a high default rate, which was aggravated during
the 1977/78 maha season (70%) when GOSL relaxed lending criteria. However, to
remedy past trends, first, the CB guarantee for agricultural credit disbursed
by PB and BC was withdrawn in 1978 forcing the banks to be more cautious about
borrower creditworthiness and loan recovery. Second, GOSL launched an aggres-
sive recovery drive nationwide, holding defaulters accountable for arrears and
making repayment or rescheduling conditions for new credit.
2.11      With this recent crackdown came improved nationwide recoveries in
1979 (58% 2/), but also a drastic curtailment of rural lending. Total rural
credit contracted from Rs 326.0 M in 1978 to Rs 106.1 M in 1979, within
which crop cultivation loans fell from Rs 259.5 M in 1978 to Rs 55.9 M in
1979. The transition, while justified on budgetary grounds, was abrupt in
the sense that the institutional credit system previously had been void of
responsible credit supervision conducive to repayment discipline. However,
a national rescheduling effort, part of the new recovery program, should allow
future expansion of a sounder agricultural credit program, hopefully predicated
on an improved credit delivery system and healthier farmer-bank relationships.
2.12      Cultivation loans for annual crops are generally provided for 6-10
months at 9.0% interest p.a. with a penalty of 5% charged on overdues. Such
loans are granted according to established scales of finance for different
crops and are provided partly in kind (inputs) with direct payment to suppliers
and partly in cash. Longer-term credit is available to farmers for investments
such as tractor purchase involving 80% bank financing, 14% interest, p.a., and
three years repayment. In view of the sharp rise in inflation particularly
1/   The Hatton National Bank Ltd. supplies a small number of crop cultivation
loans under the Comprehensive Rural Credit Scheme.
2/   As of December 1979.  Recovery estimate based on cultivation loans (6-10
months terms) only.



- 10 -
since 1978, agricultural on-lending rates are currently negative in real terms.
GOSL, however, is taking steps to reduce inflation and thereby curb the impli-
cit subsidy on such interest rates. Other institutional credit schemes of
interest to prospective settlers under the project would include small-scale
industrial credit (e.g., rice hullers, sewing machines, bicycle repair shops),
house establishment credit (under consideration), and animal husbandry
financing.
III. THE PROJECT
General
3.01      The proposed project would be the third irrigated agricultural
development project assisted by the Bank Group under the Mahaweli Ganga
Development Program and the first downstream development to be undertaken
under GOSL's Accelerated Program. The project would provide new irrigation
capability for about 24,100 ha and enhanced capability for about 3,620 ha in
System C, comprising in total about 42% of the gross area of the System.
Within Zones 3-6 (18,500 ha net of newly irrigated area), the project would
provide: irrigation and drainage infrastructure; construction camps; land
clearing and on-farm development; social infrastructure; market, village
and hamlet roads; fuelwood and cashew plantations; management offices, quar-
ters and vehicles; and settlement assistance. 1/ Within the total System C
area, the project would provide: assistance for completing the Right Bank
Transbasin Canal; technical assistance; monitoring programs; maintenance
equipment and workshops; equipment and facilities for a farm machinery hire
service; and equipment for a training center and farm.
Principal Project Features
3.02      Works, facilities, and programs to be implemented over a six-year
period would include:
(a)  Minipe Right Bank Transbasin Canal and allied structures
from km 4.7 to its end near the Ulhitiya Reservoir
(about 26 km);
(b) Within Zones 3-6:
(i) Construction of construction camp and workshops;
(ii) Construction of main and branch canals, including
the Main Canal No. 2;
1/   GOSL is currently undertaking similar investments in Zone 2 (5,300 ha
net of newly irrigated area) with EEC assistance. GOSL will implement
a similar program in Zone 1 (300 ha net of newly irrigated area) after
completion of Zones 2-6. About 3,620 ha of currently irrigated area in
Zones 1-2 would receive additional water and would benefit from technical
infrastructure supplied under the project.



- 11 -
(iii) Construction of distributor and field canals;
(iv)  Construction of main drains;
(v)  Construction of secondary and field drains;
(vi)  Land clearing and on-farm development;
(vii)  Construction of social infrastructure including schools
and teachers' quarters, medical and public health
facilities, community development centers, administra-
tive service buildings, and agro-chemical, seed and
food stores;
(viii)  Construction of market, village, and hamlet roads;
(ix)  Establishment of fuelwood and cashew plantations;
(x)  Assistance to settlers through provision of core house
grants, seeds, and tools; and
(xi)  Construction of offices and staff quarters and provision
of vehicles for the Mahaweli Economic Agency.
(c) Within Total System C:
(i)  Provision of maintenance equipment and workshops;
(ii)  Construction of irrigation infrastructure and provision
of equipment for the Giranduru Kotte agricultural
development training center and farm;
(iii)  Implementation of a program to monitor and evaluate
the project's agro-economic impact as well as irri-
gation deliveries and system losses;
(iv)  Engineering, supervision, and management of project works;
(v)  Introduction of a sound water management system;
(vi)  Assistance to settlers through the establishment of
a farm machinery hire service and comprehensive agri-
cultural support services; and
(vii)  Provision of technical assistance and training.
Description of Project Works, Facilities, and Programs
3.03      Minipe Right Bank Transbasin Canal.  The Transbasin Canal would
convey water from the Mahaweli Ganga at Minipe to the Ulhitiya Oya/Ratkinda



- 12 -
Reservoirs, where it would be regulated for release to Systems B and C. Con-
struction of the new Minipe Anicut, 1/ the first 4.7 km of the Transbasin
Canal (including allied structures), and the embankments and outlet works of
the Ulhitiya Oya and Ratkinda Reservoirs were contracted to GOSL construction
agencies and private contractors before project appraisal. The remaining
portion of the Transbasin Canal (about 26 km) would be included in the project.
A contract for this latter work (excluding regulatory gates estimated to cost
about Rs 8 M) costing Rs 537.8 M was awarded in August 1980, following ICB
in accordance with JDA guidelines. 2/ The diversion capacity of the canal
would be about 64 m /sec; it would be concrete-lined to reduce seepage losses,
maintenance problems, and unauthorized diversions from the canal. Final
designs for the Transbasin Canal have been completed and the preparation of
working drawings is keeping pace with construction development. The following
major auxilliary structures would be constructed, the first three under GOSL
financing:
Structures                                   Status
Minipe Head Sluice                            Contracted to GOSL agency
Badula Oya Crossing (aqueduct)                Contracted to GOSL agency
Badula Oya Tunnel                             Awarded to private contractor
Loggal Oya Level Crossing, spillway,
and inlet and outlet structures
Hepola Oya Level Crossing, spillway,          Included in contract awarded
and inlet and outlet structures             August 1980.
Diyabana Oya Level Crossing, spillway,
and inlet and outlet structures
Ulhitiya Oya Inlet Structure
3.04      Irrigation and Drainage Systems.  Irrigation deliveries to Zones
3-6 would be conveyed from the Ratkinda regulating reservoir by Main Canal
No. 2. 3/ Branch and distributor canals (D-canals), located on tops of ridges
where practical to command the largest area possible, would distribute water
throughout the project area. Balancing reservoirs would be located along the
canals at appropriate locations to provide operational flexibility, reduce
1/   Diversion structure.
2/   It is estimated that US$10.0 M would be disbursed retroactively from the
IDA credit for mobilization and initial construction costs of the Right
Bank Transbasin Canal incurred subsequent to August 8, 1980 (para 3.46).
3/   Main Canal No. 1, starting at the lJlhitiya Oya regulating reservoir,
would provide irrigation water to a separate irrigation system serving
Zone 2, which is not included in the project.



- 13 -
operational losses, and limit peak canal design capacity requirements. Reflec-
ting GOSL's objective to optimize the use of available water, an integral part
of the system plan would be to design some of the lower lying canals to inter-
cept drainage flows and thereby make full use of return flows within the
project area. Main and branch canals would be lined only in areas of rock
excavation or where canal alignment would traverse extremely porous soils.
3.05      The basic pattern of development would be to group proposed 1.0 ha
farms in blocks of about 10-15 farms, supplied by a single farm canal from one
distributor turnout. The location and design of distributor and farm canals
is being guided by ongoing irrigation system trials in Block 404 of System H. 1/
pipe irrigation pilot design to determine its applicability to Sri Lankan
conditions and whether it would result in more efficient and equitable distri-
bution of water with increased production. The development plan to be adopted
for the project would be determined by the final design of a 1,000-ha repres-
entative area undertaken by the Consultant (paras 3.07 and 3.38). It is
planned to distribute water at the farm canal level by simple rotation among
farmers in the turnout group. To improve farmer irrigation and water manage-
ment capability, cooperation among farmers, and efficiency of water use, an
irrigation training program for both project staff and farmers would be
provided at the training center to be established in Zone 2 (para 3.18).
3.06      Because bedrock underlies the major part of the more permeable RBE
soils at relatively shallow depths, most of the area would be developed for
double-cropped paddy, which would require a relatively simple surface drainage
system to provide drainage at harvest. Where return flows are to be used
within the project area, the system would be designed accordingly. Small
areas of perennial and diversified annual crops would be grown in free drain-
ing soils where drainage problems are not expected to develop.
3.07      A summary of the proposed irrigation and drainage system for Zones
3-6, based on designs employed in System H, is given in Annex 1, Table 4.
Field location surveys of main and branch canal alignments are in progress.
Final designs of the irrigation and drainage systems, as well as of required
social infrastructure, are currently being prepared (para 3.38), and final
design specifications and tender documents are scheduled for completion in
1981. Detailed designs of the 1,000 ha representative area (down to farm
level) include distribution and farm canal layouts, structure designs, and
on-farm development plans.
3.08      Land Clearing.  Present land use in Zones 3-6 consists of about
29,000 ha of forest, 2,000 ha of grassland, 6,500 ha of chena, and 100 ha of
rainfed paddy. About 82% of this area would be cleared or modified in devel-
oping the estimated 31,000 gross ha required for irrigated farms, project
infrastructure, residential areas, and plantations. However, a 1,000 ha block
of Sri Lankan Dry Mixed Evergreen Forest would be preserved as a conservation
area.
1/   These trials were undertaken as part of feasibility studies for System C.
They investigated four different field irrigation systems and various
settlement patterns, modes of on-farm development, and lining materials.



- 14 -
3.09      Land clearing techniques and procedures used for new settlement
in recent years have not proved entirely satisfactory, although some improve-
ments have been introduced in System H. A better standard of land clearing
and on-farm development is proposed for System C to help settlers attain full
production levels rapidly. Before clearing commences, all usable trees would
be removed by the State Timber Corporation and its contractors. This work
is now in progress. Medium density forest would be cleared by dozers with
straight or stinger blades. Hand-felling of isolated trees and removal of
stumps and roots by dozers with rippers and front-end rakes would be carried
out in light forest/chena areas. Settlers would be encouraged to use felled
trees and underbrush for fuelwood. All clearing work would be contracted
privately and would be scheduled for completion just prior to start of on-
farm development work. Medium density forest clearing is estimated to cost
Rs 6,000/ha, and light density forest/chena clearing, Rs 2,000/ha, averaging
about Rs 5,200/ha. During clearing, dozers would also do rough levelling
and filling.
3.10      On-Farm Development.  To achieve efficient water use, farms must be
laid out well, fields levelled properly, and bunds constructed and maintained
satisfactorily. Considerable improvement in on-farm development is being
achieved in System H, compared to earlier attempts, by combining mechanized
and manual operations, the latter performed under contract with settlers.
To effect further improvements in the project area, mechanized work would be
contracted privately, specifying use of heavy duty disc harrows pulled by light
to medium crawler tractors, enabling land preparation to proceed year-round.
Such tractors could also be used in levelling/grading work. The following
sequence of operations is proposed: (a) rough levelling; (b) preliminary land
shaping; (c) heavy disc harrowing to chop roots and loosen soil; (d) surveying
grades and locating bunds; (e) land grading, forming, and cross levelling; (f)
establishing farm bunds, soil conservation contour bunds, field channels, and
drains; and (g) final levelling. Machines would be used for activities (a) to
(c); GOSL technical staff would perform (d); either machines or manual labor
would accomplish (e); and (f) and (g) would be contracted to settlers. In the
event that the settlers cannot accomplish (f) and (g) satisfactorily, private
contractors would be employed. Costs of on-farm development work are expected
to average about Rs 4,500/ha for mechanized development plus Rs 4,000/ha for
remaining manual work. Proper phasing of clearing and on-farm development
would be required to avoid costly clearing of secondary growth and reconstruc-
tion of works previously completed.
3.11      Social Infrastructure and Community Development Facilities.  Most
existing infrastructure in System C is located in Zones 1-2. The only facility
in Zones 3-6 is a primary school in Yakkure. The project would provide settlers
with adequate health, educational, and other facilities to attain living stand-
ards comparable to other developed areas in Sri Lanka. A unit, comprising
about 250 farmer and 75 non-farmer settlers, would be the basic project develop-
ment unit, and its service center would be the first element of social infra-
structure constructed after completion of main roads. A village center would
be developed for every four unit centers, and an area center would be developed
for every eight unit centers. A town center would be established to serve
every ten village centers. Two town centers would also be established,
Giranduru Kotte (Zone 2) and Dehiatte Kandiya (Zone 4). A total of about 75
unit centers and 18 village centers would be established in Zones 3-6.



- 15 -
3.12      About 31,300 new families (about 180,000 persons) would settle in
System C after development, including 24,100 farmer-settlers and 7,200 trades-
men, artisans, and service personnel, including GOSL staff. The project would
provide social infrastructure required in Zones 3-6, including quarters for
teachers, medical staff, and postal employees. Community development centers
and principal public service buildings would also be provided. A sites-and-
services approach to town development would be carried out under the project.
A summary of the infrastructure to be provided under the project is given
in Annex 1, Tables 5 and 6. Settlement assistance proposed is described in
paras 3.22-3.23.
3.13      Since most of the expected settler population is likely to be
young, immediate educational requirements would be mainly at the primary and
junior secondary level, with senior secondary schools to follow later. To
minimize walking distances, a primary school would be provided for each unit.
Thus, about 96 new primary schools would be required in System C, 75 to be
provided under the project in Zones 3-6. Junior secondary schools would be
situated in each of the 24 village centers (18 in Zones 3-6) and have about
250 pupils per school. One senior secondary school would be established at
Giranduru Kotte (Zone 2) and one in Dehiatte Kandiya (Zone 4); the latter
would be financed under the project. Limited boarding facilities would be
provided for pupils coming from distant parts of the project area. School
buildings and quarters for principals and head teachers would be provided
under the project and would be of standard design. Since junior teaching
staff would probably be drawn from the resident population, housing would
be provided for only about one half of the primary school teachers and all
of the junior secondary school teachers. All senior secondary school staff
would be provided housing. The Ministry of Education would equip the schools
and defray recurrent costs of the buildings, teachers' salaries, and other
expenses.
3.14      The Ministry of Health currently faces major staffing problems for
all posts in its service and finds particular difficulty in filling vacancies
in remote rural areas, principally because of higher salaries available abroad
and in private practice. To circumvent this constraint, the project would
rely on strategically located medical facilities with effective ambulance and
mobile unit service. The Mahiyangana district hospital would continue as the
focal point of medical and public health services. A touring public health
team for malaria control and a touring dispensary team holding clinics in
village public dispensaries are based at this hospital. Two peripheral health
units, each with a 48-bed hospital, one in Giranduru Kotte and one in Dehiatte
Kandiya (the latter to be financed under the project), would also serve the
population of System C. The project would provide nine public health dispen-
saries and clinics at area centers for 37 public health midwives in Zones 3-6.
Each midwife would serve two hamlets.
3.15      Meeting halls would be provided in each of the village centers.
Other facilities provided would include town council offices, police stations
and police posts, telephone and postal facilities, rural banks, and markets.
Storage for fertilizers, seeds, and food provided by the World Food Programme
(WFP) also would be provided at the unit center level.



- 16 -
3.16      Roads.  The Asian Development Bank is assisting Sri Lanka in plan-
ning and developing the major road network in the downstream development area
under the Accelerated Program. Necessary market roads and other roads in the
hamlets, towns, and village centers would be provided in Zones 3-6 under the
project. About 90 km of market roads (9 m in width and unpaved), 70 km of
11 m wide urban roads (5 km metalled and tarred), and 240 km of graded
laterite-surfaced hamlet roads (4.3 m wide) would be provided.
3.17      Management and Operational Infrastructure.  The project would be
managed by the Mahaweli Economic Agency (MEA). Offices and quarters for MEA
staff would be provided under the project. During project implementation,
MEA's recurrent costs (e.g. salaries, allowances, vehicle operation) would be
covered as part of the O&M costs of the project. Housing would be provided
for all MEA management staff at the unit and block levels and at project head-
quarters as well as for half of the vehicle and tractor drivers. The project
would provide office buildings at all levels, a central workshop and store,
shed and minor repair facilities for the machinery hire unit, and facilities
for fuelwood and cashew nurseries. A summary of management and operational
infrastructure required for the project is shown in Annex 1, Table 7.
3.18      Giranduru Kotte Training Center and Farm.  Farmer-settlers, some
with no practical irrigation experience, would require training to gain
proficiency in water management techniques. They would need to learn the
fundamentals of, and accept responsibility for, operating and maintaining the
irrigation system downstream of D-canal turnouts. The keys to the success
of the Mahaweli Program and its individual projects are knowledgeable, effi-
cient farmers, capable of managing water resources effectively in cooperation
with other farmers in the same turnout area. With water use in similar
irrigation projects currently running 2-3 times higher than actually needed,
it is evident that a major effort must be made to (a) construct proper irri-
gation systems to control water issues efficiently and to distribute them
equitably, and (b) train farmers to be good water managers. The proposed
irrigation system for System C would provide the former. Staff and farmer
training programs at the proposed Center in Giranduru Kotte are expected to
accomplish the latter.
3.19      The Farm at the Center would encompass the commanded area of one
distributor canal (about 250 ha) and would demonstrate diverse cropping
and irrigation systems. The Center, to be financed by the EEC, would have
necessary classrooms, research buildings, and laboratories for demonstrating
correct agricultural practices and irrigation techniques. Hostel accommoda-
tions would be provided for 100 participants attending basic courses.
Quarters for resident staff, offices, workshops and ancillary buildings
would also be provided. Equipment and irrigation infrastructure for the
Center and Farm would be provided under the project.
3.20      The Center would organize (a) pre-service and in-service training
for management operations staff; (b) training for contact farmers and com-
munity leaders; and (c) as space permits, training for other farmers within
System C. The Center would also serve as a venue for demonstrations and field
days for the settler community. Small demonstration plantations of fuelwood
and cashews would be developed. A list of the facilities to be provided by
the EEC is shown in Annex 1, Table 8.



- 17 -
3.21      Settlement.  Farmer-settlers would each be allotted a 1.0 ha irri-
gated plot and 0.2 ha for an unirrigated houseplot (para 5.03). Non-farmer
settlers and GOSL employees in the area would be allotted 0.1 ha unirrigated
houseplots.
3.22      Displaced persons (e.g., from reservoir areas) with agricultural
background would receive priority in plot allotments. Other farmer-settlers
would be expected to meet the following criteria established by GOSL:
(a) currently owning no more than 0.4 ha of agricultural land;
(b) proven experience in agriculture either as a sharecropper
or agricultural laborer--priority would be given to appli-
cants who participated in the Department of Agriculture's
Practical Farm School Certificate course; and
(c) availability of family labor: applicant must be married
w`Lth children or be the breadwinner of an extended family.
Farmer-settlers would receive their houseplots and farms about six months
before irrigation water becomes available. Therefore, their first harvest
would be obtained about one year after settlement.
3.23      A total of 24,100 new farmers are expected to settle on irrigated
land developed in System C, 18,500 of whom would be located in Zones 3-6.
These would be given the opportunity to work for competitive wages in develop-
ing their lands, including preparation of farm ditches and drains. Each
farmer-settler family would also be provided under the project with a core
house grant (Rs 1,500) and Rs 500 to purchase field tools and seed (Annex 1,
Table 9). Other settlers would be expected to construct houses and business
establishments from their own resources, institutional credit, or other
development programs provided by GOSL independently from the project. Settlers
would be eligible to receive food aid for a period of 12 months after arrival
under an agreement between GOSL and WFP. No difficulty is foreseen in
attracting sufficient settlers for the project.
3.24      Land Use.  Most irrigable land in the project area would be devel-
oped for paddy production rather than for "irrigated dry" crops due to the
soil-water regimen expected to result with the project. This would be the
most economically viable alternative and is in consonance with GOSL's goal
of self-sufficiency in basic foodgrains. Expected irrigable land use would
be as follows:
Crop Rotation                    Area (ha)      Area (%)
Paddy-paddy                       16,000           86
Paddy-upland crops                 1,500            8
Perennial crops                    1,000            6
Total                        18,500          100
The proposed cropping calendar for these crops at full development is shown
in Annex 1, Chart 1.



- 18 -
3.25      Agricultural Extension.  A strong agricultural extension program
would be provided to ensure that expected yields and intensities are achieved
as quickly as possible. Extension staff would receive thorough training be-
fore and after arrival in the project area. Periodic courses at the Giranduru
Kotte Center (para 3.18) would complement proposed pre-service training of
field staff. The extension program provided would be consistent with the
Training and Visit (T&V) 1/ system currently being introduced throughout Sri
Lanka. Assurances were received from GOSL that implementation of agricultural
extension services established in the project area under MASL would be in
accordance with the systematic approach agreed to under the nationwide Agri-
cultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project assisted by IDA.
3.26      Farm Machinery Hire Service.  The proposed development of the
project area is principally for double-cropped paddy. The maha crop should
be planted by end-November to make most effective use of maha rains. There-
fore, farmers must have sufficient farm power to complete land preparation
within a period of about 6-8 weeks before the maha and 4-6 weeks before the
yala, as well as assistance to thresh the maha crop. Since necessary farm
power would not be available from farmers' own resources during the early
stages of the project, MEA would operate a tractor hire service consisting
of 150 four-wheel 40-50 HP tractors with suitable tillage implements provided
under the project. It would not be necessary to replace these MEA tractors
because the farming community eventually is expected to acquire sufficient
two-wheel tractors and draft animals to make a publicly operated tractor
hire service no longer necessary. Provision would be made for both individual
livestock holdings and communal grazing areas.
3.27      Traditional threshing practices using animal power would not be
adequate to handle the paddy crop expected with the project. Therefore, the
project would provide axial-flow and drum-type (tractor or engine powered)
threshers for MEA to hire out to farmers during the first 6-10 years of the
project. After that, it is expected that the farmers would obtain threshing
equipment with their own resources.
3.28      Agricultural Supporting Services.  The marketing and distribution
of seeds, fertilizers, and pesticides would be supported by the construction
of a central store at Dehiatte Kandiya and by smaller stores to serve as
retail outlets at unit-level. Existing storage at Giranduru Kotte is suffi-
cient for such use. Since fertilizers would be blended and stored in large
quantities at the Ceylon Fertilizer Corporation regional depot at nearby
Badulla, the project would provide only minimum on-site storage facilities,
but would provide sufficient transport vehicles to replenish stocks on short
notice. Supplies over the long-term are expected to come from bulk depots
at Polonnaruwa.
3.29      Rural Credit.  Most farmer-settlers within the project area would
be selected from the landless, unemployed, and underemployed segments of the
population and would be dependent upon credit to obtain basic cultivation
and domestic requirements. Furthermore, about 10-20% of the new occupants
1/   Daniel Benor and James Q. Harrison, Agricultural Extension:  The Training
and Visit System, World Bank, Washington, 1977.



- 19 -
of System C would belong to the trading and service sectors and would require
development capital to finance investments in support activities. Institu-
tional credit, therefore, would be an integral part of the settlement require-
ments. Recent efforts to improve credit recoveries, including rescheduling
(para 2.11), are not expected to affect adversely credit eligibility for those
settlers selected under the project.
3.30      The project would support overall banking operations in the project
area by providing ten simply constructed rural bank facilities (para 2.09)
in village centers. In addition, settlers and current residents alike are
expected to benefit directly from complementary programs currently being
carried out by major banking institutions to expand rural lending based on
repayment and supervisory discipline, to reinforce their field organizations
and facilities, and to broaden lending schemes as new rural financing needs
arise. Their lending schemes and scales of finance, both existing and envis-
aged, should, however, be reviewed periodically to ensure that financial
assistance is not eroded by inflation. To permit realization of agricultural
production potential from project investments and to ensure growth of a viable
service sector, assurances were received from GOSL that it would make arrange-
ments to provide adequate credit to project area residents, that such institu-
tional credit would be supported by adequate supervisory staff and facilities,
and that credit arrangements would reviewed periodically and adjusted as
required.
Cashew and Fuelwood Plantations
3.31      Cashews.  For optimal utilization of out-of-command areas and in
support of the country's policy of increasing exports of high-value commodi-
ties, about 2,000 ha of unirrigated land would be planted to cashew trees.
Land clearing would be carried out under the project. About 500 ha would be
planted to cashew each year over a four-year period beginning in 1983 either
by private entrepreneurs or by the Sri Lanka Cashew Corporation. Establish-
ment costs have been estimated at about Rs 2,400/ha with maintenance costs
averaging about Rs 920/ha each year thereafter, all to be borne by the planters.
3.32      Fuelwood.  To reduce the country's reliance on imported fuel and
provide a convenient source of fuel for settlers, the project would establish
fuelwood plantations after clearing and development of the project area. Plan-
tations would be systematically harvested and replanted. About 3,000 ha of
land would be required to satisfy local needs. Plantations would be concen-
trated in marginal, out-of-command areas.   The fuelwood component of the
project would be in line with the well-conceived afforestation program being
carried out nationwide by the Forestry Department. About 300 ha would be
planted to fuelwood trees each year over a ten-year period beginning in 1983
to ensure a continuous supply for area settlers. The plantation would be
established either by the Forestry Department or by MEA with technical guidance
from the Forestry Department.
Water Supply and Demand
3.33      Based on a 28-year water requirements study carried out during
appraisal, the total aveSage annual irrigation diversion requirement for System
C would be about 500 M m , most of which would be supplied from Mahaweli Ganga



- 20 -
diversions. Return flow and local inflow from irrigation within System C
would be used to the extent possible to satisfy remaining irrigation require-
ments. Comparisons of estimated Mahaweli Ganga flow at Minipe and estimated
diversion requirements of System C (Annex 1, Chart 2) show that adequate water
would be available for diversion. An assurance was received from GOSL that
it would allocate to System C the full amount of water required fr3m the
Mahaweli Ganga for project use, estimated to average about 500 M m annually.
3.34      Water Quality.  The chemical quality of water in the Mahaweli Ganga
and in small catchments located in the project area is excellent for irriga-
tion. Water quality would deteriorate somewhat with the expected use of
return flows but would still remain satisfactory. Also, analyses from 16
water samples collected from wells and reservoirs within System C indicate
surface and groundwater supplies would be of good quality for domestic use.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.35      A monitoring and evaluation system would be developed under the
project to review progress in project implementation and success in meeting
its objectives. This system would focus on two basic areas: (a) input
delivery and use covering civil works construction, on-farm development,
equipment procurement, settlement, project costs, O&M, agricultural input
provision, and credit; and (b) output achievement in terms of increased
production, improved services and living standards, and water management
(including irrigation deliveries and system losses).
3.36      Two specific activities would be carried out under the project--
agro-economic surveys and a water management evaluation. Other relevant
evaluation activities would be specified during the first year of project
implementation. The two monitoring exercises mentioned above are briefly
described as follows:
(a)  Agro-economic Surveys.  Separate surveys would be made in
the currently developed area (Zone 1) and in areas to be
developed to ascertain the project's impact on production
levels, farm incomes, income distribution, settlement pro-
gress and problems. These would start in 1982 with benchmark
measurements and would continue on a periodic basis to 1990.
Management effectiveness, farmer training, and adaptability
and performance of farmer turnout groups also would be
evaluated. Effectiveness of the project in achieving
planned development and production goals would be studied,
and causes of deviation from the planned project's targets
would be identified. Results from these studies would be
used to make adjustments necessary to improve implementation
and to guide future settlement efforts in similar projects
(para 4.10).
(b)  Irrigation Deliveries and System Losses.  A water management
program would be set up to determine irrigation deliveries
accurately throughout the system and areas of unacceptable
seepage and/or operational loss. Where necessary to obtain



- 21 -
continuous measurements, gauging stations with automatic
recorders would be established. Data obtained would be used
in determining system operation criteria and possible system
design modifications, including identification of canal sections
in need of lining. Farm irrigation efficiency studies for paddy
cultivation on both LHG and RBE soils would be made to determine
percolation losses and water application losses under flooded
conditions. Data obtained would be used to guide development
of future systems with similar conditions (para 4.10).
3.37      Assurances were received from GOSL that a special monitoring and
evaluation program would be established to assess project performance over
the 1982-90 period, that details of this program would be submitted for
review by IDA by March 31, 1982 and that it would implement a monitoring
and evaluation program satisfactory to IDA by September 30, 1982. Estimated
costs of monitoring activities are given in Annex 1, Table 9.
Technical Assistance
3.38      A consortium of consultants (Consultant), 1/ financed under an EEC
Special Action Credit, has been retained by GOSL to review final designs and
prepare tender documents for the Transbasin Canal and to proceed with pre-
construction investigations and final designs for System C development (paras
3.03 and 3.07). The Consultant, financed earlier by the UK, previously
prepared the Feasibility Study for System C. Designs and tender documents
for the Transbasin Canal have been completed.
3.39      The project would provide additional technical assistance for
planning and scheduling project implementation work, contract administration
and construction supervision of irrigation and drainage works and social
infrastructure in Zones 3-6 and for general agricultural and water management
aspects of the project. The following specialists would be provided:
Proposed Period
Speciality                        of Assignment
(man-years)
Senior Construction Engineer                    4
Planning and Scheduling Advisor                 3
Contract Administration Engineer                 3
Senior Construction Inspector                   4
Construction Management Engineer
(records)                                     3
Agricultural Advisor                             3
Water Management Specialist                      3
On-Farm Development Advisor                      4
Total                                     27
1/   Hunting Technical Services Ltd. in association with Sir Alexander Gibb
and Partners, and Huszar Brammah and Associated.



- 22 -
3.40      Terms of reference for consultancy services required are presented
in Annex 2. Total costs of these services are estimated at about US$3.9 M,
inclusive of travel, shipping, and other expenses. Average man-month cost
for consultancy services would be about US$12,000. An assurance was received
from GOSL that the consultants required to assist in project impletation would
be appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The project would
include training for GOSL staff in countries where specific programs are
available in planning, design, and execution of irrigation development and
settlement projects. Cost of such training is estimated at about US$0.2 M.
Cost Estimates
3.41      Total costs of the project are estimated at about US$201.8 M,
including US$68.9 M for price escalation. No import duties and taxes would
be charged under the project. The foreign exchange cost would be about
US$87.4 M, or 43%. Cost estimates are based on prices prevailing in mid-1980.
Unit prices used for main and branch canals are based on recent bid prices for
similar work. The cost of the Transbasin Canal is the contractor's bid price
for constructing the canal, awarded after ICB conducted in accordance with
IDA guidelines. Cost estimates for land clearing and onfarm development are
based on recent MDB experience in System H, upgraded to take account of
standards proposed in the project area. Costs of distributor and field canals
are based on typical layouts constructed for irrigation research trials in
Block 404 of System H. MDB's costs for administration and engineering are
estimated to be about 10% of construction costs for civil works and 8% of such
costs for social infrastructure. Physical contingency factors of 15% and 10%
are applied to costs of civil works and social infrastructure, respectively.
Price contingencies are estimated to be about 52% of base costs, including
physical contingencies and O&M, in accordance with inflation rates specified
in Table 3.1. O&M costs at full development are estimated to average Rs 690/ha
(US$16/ac) as shown in Annex 1, Table 13. Cost estimates are detailed in
Annex 1, Table 14 and are summarized below in Table 3.1. Cost estimates of
equipment to be provided under the project are shown in Annex 1, Table 15.



- 23 -
Table 3.1: SUMMARY COST ESTIMATE
Foreign
Local Foreign Total Exchange
_-------US$ M------    ()
Civil Works
Construction Camp                                    1.5     1.0      2.5       40
Right Bank Transbasin Canal                        12.2    18.3    30.5         60
Irrigation System & Land Development
in Zones 3-6                                     19.4    22.5    41.9         54
Roads                                                1.6     1.3      2.9       45
Social & Administration Infrastructure
Social Infrastructure                               4.1      1.8      5.9       30
Administration Offices & Quarters                    4.5      1.9     6.4       30
Engineering, Supervision & Administration           10.0      -      10.0        -
Equipment & Vehicles                                 0.5     9.1      9.6       95
Settlement Assistance                                1.8     0.3      2.1       14
Monitoring Program                                   0.7      -       0.7        -
Technical Assistance & Training                     0.5      3.6      4.1       88
O&M During Project Construction                     3.0      0.5      3.5       14
Base Cost                                     59.8    60.3   120.1         50
Physical Contingencies                              6.0      6.8    12.8        53
Price Escalation /a                                48.6    20.3    68.9         30
Total Project Cost                           114.4    87.4   201.8        43
/a                        1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
(percent p.a.)
Foreign Costs       12.5    9.0        8.5      7.5      7.5      7.5      6.0
Local Costs         25.0   25.0       15.0    12.0    10.0        8.0      8.0
Implementation Schedule and Settlement Rate
3.42       The project would be completed in six years, or by December 1986.
A detailed schedule of project implementation is provided in Annex 1, Chart 3.
Settlement in System C is expected to proceed simultaneously with that in
System B and therefore, could be subject to various constraints. Table 3.2,
however, represents a projected settlement rate that is considered achievable
and realistic:
Table 3.2: ESTIMATED SETTLEMENT RATE FOR SYSTEM C /a
(families)
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   Total
Zone 1            -       -       -      -      300      300
Zone 2         4,300  1,000       -      -       -    5,300
Zones 3-6         -   3,500  5,000  5,000  5,000  18,500
Total       4,300  4,500  5,000  5,000  5,300  24,100
/a   Assumes simultaneous settlement in System B.



- 24 -
Financing
3.43      Co-financing arrangements for the project are being finalized by
GOSL. The Kuwait Fund has pledged US$45.0 M equivalent to finance about 22%
of total project costs, including approximately 17% of foreign costs and 27%
of local costs. Japan is seriously considering an official request from GOSL
for a concessionary loan of US$45.0 M, which would also finance about 22% of
total project costs, including 36% of foreign costs and 12% of local costs.
The above bilateral assistance combined with the proposed IDA contribution
of US$90.0 M would finance about 89% of total project costs, including approxi-
mately 81% of local costs. The remaining funds required (US$21.8 M equivalent)
would be provided by GOSL. A condition of effectiveness for the IDA credit
would be the satisfactory arrangements for commitments from the co-financiers
participating in project financing. An assurance was received from GOSL that
adequate and timely funds would be provided for project implementation. An
estimated schedule of expenditures and an IDA credit allocation schedule are
shown in Annex 1, Tables 16 and 17, respectively. Financing of discrete proj-
ect components has been tentatively agreed with the prospective cofinanciers
as shown in the following table:
Category                                  GOSL    IDA    Kuwait    Japan
--%---             --- --- --7
Civil Works
Construction Camp                               10      90
Right Bank Transbasin Canal                      5      95                  -
Works in Zones 3-6:
Main & Branch Canals                          -       -       -         100
Distributor & Field Canals                    -       -      100         -
Main Drains                                  10      90       -          -
Secondary & Field Drains                      -      -       100         -
Land Clearing                                10      90       -          -
On-Farm Development                          10      90       -          -
Roads                                         -       -      100         -
Engineering, Supervision, Administration        50      50       -          -
Social & Administrative Infrastructure          22       -       78/a       -
Engineering, Supervision, Administration        50      50       -          -
Equipment and Vehicles                            1     14       -          85
Settlement Assistance                           10      90       -          -
Monitoring                                       -    100        -          -
Technical Assistance                            16       -       -          84
O&M During Construction                        100       -       -          -
Unallocated                                      -       2       -
TOTAL                                      11     45        22         22
/a   100% of expenditures financed until funds are exhausted.



- 25 -
Procurement Under the IDA Credit 1/
3.44      Civil Works.  Civil works would be procured as follows:
(a)  A contract for constructing the Transbasin Canal (US$30.1 M
equivalent) was procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines. The contract
was signed in August 1980 and construction is underway. Gates
for the Transbasin Canal (US$0.4 M equivalent) are being pro-
cured through ICB.
(b)  Main drains ($0.5 M equivalent) and construction camps ($2.5 M
equivalent) would be procured through local competitive bidding
(LCB) procedures acceptable to IDA.
(c)  Land clearing (US$6.3 M equivalent) and on-farm development
(US$7.5 M equivalent) would be accomplished by mechanized
and manual methods. Tenders for machine work would be
grouped into contracts of at least US$0.75 M and the work
would be procured through LCB. Land clearing to be done
manually would be divided into small contracts and awarded
through LCB and through fixed rate contracts to small local
contractors and settlers.
3.45      Equipment and Vehicles (Annex 1, Table 15).  Equipment and vehicles
totalling about US$1.3 M would be financed by IDA. Small off-the-shelf items,
costing less than US$50,000 and for which international tendering is not
practical, would be procured after comparing prices from not less than three
independent suppliers in accordance with GOSL procurement procedures accept-
able to IDA. Such purchases, however, would be limited to an aggregate total
of US$0.5 M. The balance equipment and vehicles would be procured through
ICB in accordance wiht IDA guidelines. A 15% preference margin would be
extended to local manufacturers in bid evaluation. An estimated equipment
procurement schedule is presented in Annex 1, Chart 4.
Disbursement
3.46      Disbursements from the IDA credit would be made for:  (i) 100%
of foreign expenditures and 90% of local expenditures for the Transbasin
Canal and gates and 90% of expenditures for other civil works; (ii) 100%
of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment, vehicles and spares;
(iii) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured equip-
ment; (iv) 90% of expenditures for other locally procured equipment, vehicles
and spares; (v) 90% of expenditures for settlement assistance; (vi) 100%
of expenditures for monitoring surveys; and (vii) 50% of expenditures for
staff costs for engineering and supervision. Disbursements for items (v)
and (vii) would be made against statements of expenditure, documentation
for which would be audited and retained for review by IDA supervision mis-
sions. All other disbursements would be made against full documentation.
1/   Costs quoted are base costs, net of physical and price contingencies
and engineering and administration costs.



- 26 -
The Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka (para 4.01) would be responsible for
the preparation, review, and submission of applications of disbursement
to IDA. The estimated credit disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 1,
Table 18. It is expected that disbursements would be completed by December
31, 1987, about one year after project completion. The project would include
US$10.0 M of retroactive financing for mobilization and construction costs of
the Right Bank Transbasin Canal (para 3.03) incurred subsequent to August 8,
1980.
Accounts and Audits
3.47      MEA and MDB would be subject to normal GOSL expenditure control
and auditing procedures, which are considered satisfactory. Project accounts
would be maintained separately by these agencies in a readily identifiable
form to enable them to be audited separately from overall accounts by an
independent auditor on a timely basis. Assurances were received from GOSL
that:
(a) separate accounts would be established and maintained for
the project by MASL, MEA and MDB;
(b) accounts and financial statements would be audited annually
by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA;
(c) copies of unaudited annual project accounts would be sent
to IDA for review not later than six months after the end
of each fiscal year, followed by certified copies of the
audited accounts and auditor's report within 12 months of
the end of each fiscal year; and
(d) the auditor's report would include, inter alia, a statement
that funds disbursed against statements of expenditure
had been used for the purposes for which they were provided.
Environmental Impact
3.48      With increasing population pressure and density, particularly within
the wet agroclimatic zone, has come a gradual and generally unorganized human
migration from the southern portions of the island, into the less densely
populated northern areas. This trend has led specifically to rising encroach-
ment into remaining forested areas, where forests are felled, wildlife directly
endangered, and land placed under relatively low productive and resource-
debilitating chena cultivation. Such a process has been occurring throughout
the Mahaweli region for at least the last 25 years. In System C, most of the
lands south of Horabora Wewa had largely been deforested prior to 1957. The
center of System C, from Horabora Wewa north to the confluence of the Ulhitiya
Oya with Mahaweli Ganga, has gradually been stripped of its forest cover over
the 1963-80 period with the influx of encroachers. Much of the 29,000 ha area
of dry mixed evergreen forest in the northern half of System C is currently
being cleared of marketable timber preparatory to development. These remaining
forested areas, however, also represent important habitats and migratory



- 27 -
routes for wildlife, including eight endangered/threatened species 1/ and a
total of 36 species endemic to Sri Lanka. Most conspicuous within this group
are the estimated 200 wild elephants inhabiting System C forests, representing
about 10% of the remaining Sri Lankan herd.
3.49      GOSL has taken an active role in promulgating environmental safe-
guards and conservation programs, as exemplified by its commitment to a system
of natural parks and reserves. However, GOSL also considers the Mahaweli
development area of critical importance for expanding food production and for
settling a large portion of the Sri Lankan poor in viable farming-based com-
munities supported by adequate social infrastructure. GOSL recognized early
on in Mahaweli planning the possibility of significant environmental problems.
As a result, GOSL arranged with USAID to undertake an in-depth analysis of the
environmental impact of the Accelerated Mahaweli Program. USAID contracted
with a US firm (TAMS) 2/ to carry out the study, and the final TAMS report
(dated October 1980) was distributed in December 1980. The TAMS environmental
assessment recognizes as justifiable the substantial benefits expected from
the Accelerated Program--employment, agricultural import substitution, and
power. However, to achieve these benefits, a large commitment of natural
resources is considered necessary, a commitment that could result in a number
of adverse environmental impacts, many of which are considered unavoidable. On
the other hand, certain negative effects can be avoided or mitigated through
timely action, and certain unavoidable impacts in one area can be counter-
balanced by action elsewhere in areas facing less pressure for agriculture-
based settlement. The general view of the TAMS report, however, is that with
prudent action, net environmental degradation under the Mahaweli Program would
be considerably less than is expected to occur were the project not implemented.
3.50      Hunting Technical Services Ltd. (in its final Development Plan
Report for System C--December 1980) recommends the inclusion of the area
within the potential Rotalawela Reservoir floodplain for agricultural develop-
ment in System C should the reservoir not be needed for transbasin development.
IDA, however, supports the TAMS recommendation for the inclusion of a portion
of the area lying within the potential Rotalawela Reservoir flood-plain, which
contains critical riverine habitat for endangered and endemic species, within
the Wasgomuwa Strict Nature Reserve as a means of maintaining the geographical
integrity of this important habitat area. 3/ In addition, the proposed
project would be in consonance with other TAMS recommendations advocating,
inter alia, development of fuelwood plantations, other agro-forestry activi-
ties, well-designed drainage systems, and social infrastructure.
1/   Elephant, leopard, redface malkoha, mugger crocodile, bengal monitor,
python, purple faced langur and toque macaque.
2/   Tippetts, Abbett, McCarthy and Stratton.
3/   Such a proposal in no way conflicts with the development design proposed
in this report since this geographical area was excluded from the IDA-
appraised project in anticipation of a future Rotalawela Reservoir in
this area (Map 15154R).



- 28 -
3.51      GOSL is currently reviewing the detailed TAMS findings, but is
in general agreement with recommendations made. GOSL has been requested to
prepare an action program based on the TAMS assessment that would contain
specific environmentally-oriented measures for financing. Specific actions
GOSL proposes to carry out are the rehabilitation of older tanks in areas
not to be developed in order to increase the carrying capacity of protected
wildlife habitat and to designate catchment areas as protected natural sanc-
tuaries. Assurances have been obtained from GOSL that it would furnish to IDA
for its review and concurrence by December 31, 1981 a program to avoid and
minimize negative environmental impacts of development in System C and under
the entire Accelerated Mahaweli Program. Assurances have also been received
that it would commence implementation by March 31, 1982 of such a conservation
program satisfactory to IDA.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka (MASL)
4.01      The Minister of Mahaweli Development (MMD) is empowered by the
Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka Act of 1979 to declare any block of land that
can be developed from the water resources of Mahaweli Ganga, or any other
major river, as a "Special Area." System C, along with Systems B and H, has
already been so designated.  MASL, established by the same Act and under MMD,
is responsible for implementing the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program within
these special areas. It is empowered to establish any corporation or other
operational entity and to take any other steps considered necessary to imple-
ment the scheme. MASL is controlled by five Directors: three appointed by
the Minister of Mahaweli Development, and the Secretaries of the Ministries of
Finance and Mahaweli Development ex-officio. One of the appointees is selected
to be MASL Director-General and Chief Executive. MASL would have overall
responsibility for coordinating project implementation and its subsequent
management. Actual execution would be carried out through the two operational
agencies described below. Division of operational responsibility would also be
carried over into System B, System H, and all other areas developed or to be
developed under the Mahaweli Program.
Mahaweli Development Board (MDB)
4.02      MDB was established in 1970, under the then Ministry of Irrigation,
Power, and Highways, to plan and implement the development of Mahaweli Ganga's
water resources and has successfully implemented the Bank Group-supported
Mahaweli Ganga Development Projects I and II. Since establishment of MMD in
1978, MDB has been an agency of that Ministry. MDB is financed from regular
GOSL budgetary appropriations and is well staffed with qualified personnel.
MDB responsibilities have diminished somewhat, however, with the establish-
ment of MASL and the pending establishment of MEA (para 4.03). MDB, respon-
sible for all physical works under the project, functions principally as a
planning, design, and construction agency for downstream development (irriga-
tion and social infrastructure).



- 29 -
Mahaweli Economic Agency (MEA)
4.03      Function.  MEA would be responsible for post-construction implemen-
tation of projects, including (a) settlement and O&M of irrigation systems
developed under the Mahaweli Program, (b) on-farm development, (c) agricultural
development and water management, (d) community development, (e) assistance in
input/output marketing, (f) agricultural and other advisory services, (g) land
allocations, and (h) promotion of secondary industries. MEA's head office
would be in Colombo. A seven-member Board of Directors appointed by MMD would
oversee MEA's activities. One of these would function as MEA Managing Director
and Chief Executive. 1/ The Managing Director would be assisted by four
Managers (Finance and Administration; Community Services; Production, Credit,
and Marketing; and Investment and Business Development) and an Internal
Auditor. Project Coordinators for each of the major downstream projects would
serve as staff links between Project Managers in the field and the Managing
Director.
4.04      The Project Manager for System C would be stationed in Giranduru
Kotte and have six Deputy Project Managers (DPM) to guide and supervise the
work of field technical officers as well as to maintain technical contact
with MEA headquarters staff. The project area would be divided into 12
blocks, each having about 2,000 farmer-settlers. A Block Manager would be
supported by teclnical officers and accounting and clerical staff. Each Block
Manager would supervise eight Unit Managers, each of whom would serve about
250 farmer-settlers with assistance from an agricultural assistant (KVS) and
water management assistant (WMA). The full organizational structure proposed
for the project is shown in Annex 1, Charts 5 and 6. Conditions of effective-
ness of the proposed IDA credit would be the establishment of MEA with dele-
gated authority from MASL to ensure efficient use of water resources, and the
appointments of the MEA Managing Director, the four MEA head office Managers,
and the Project Manager for System C. 2/
4.05      Settlement Services.  Most of the goods and services required by the
settlers (e.g., shopping facilities, farm input supplies, and output marketing)
would be provided by existing GOSL agencies (e.g. Paddy Marketing Board (PMB),
ASCs, PB, CB), cooperatives (MPCSs), and private traders. MEA would be expected
to act as a facilitator of private enterprise and to operate as a buyer/supplier
of last resort. MEA would assist commercial banking institutions in all aspects
of rural credit operations, including agricultural production and investment
credit.
4.06      Farm Machinery Hire Service.  MEA would operate a farm machinery
hire service (para 3.26) principally designed to bridge an anticipated farm
power gap until farmers acquire sufficient work animals and two-wheel tractors
to prepare and cultivate their lands. This service would be controlled by an
Operations Manager reporting to the DPM (Agriculture). The service would ope-
1/   GOSL has already designated a senior civil servant experienced in
agriculture to fill this post. He has been instrumental in project
preparation for System C.
2/   The Project Manager has already been appointed.



- 30 -
rate about 150 farm tractors and tractor-powered threshers. The Operations
Manager would have three Technical Officers each of whom would manage five
Group Supervisors. Each Group Supervisor would oversee ten tractors.
4.07      Plantation and Grazing Lands Management.  About 3,000 ha of out-
of-command land not required for settlers' residential communities would be
developed to fuelwood plantations by MEA or the Forestry Department. Cashew
plantations would occupy a further 2,000 ha to be developed either by private
entrepreneurs leasing mini-estates of 15-20 ha of cleared land from MEA or by
the Sri Lanka Cashew Corporation. Remaining lands (about 3,500 ha), would be
kept under forest or be reserved for communal grazing and livestock holdings.
The DPM (Agriculture) would be responsible for plantations and grazing lands
with assistance of a Forest Officer from the Forestry Department experienced
in relevant management practices. These areas would be patrolled to prevent
encroachment. Maintenance operations would be performed by casual labor
principally in off-peak periods.
Agricultural Supporting Services
4.08      Fertilizer supplies required for the project would be channeled
from the Ceylon Fertilizer Corporation. Six regional fertilizer depots are
being established in Sri Lanka along railway lines, including one in Badulla
that would serve the project area. Fertilizers from the urea plant in Colombo
or from ports would be blended in depots, bagged, and dispatched to district
warehouses as required. Private traders, MPCSs, and ASCs would provide the
marketing link to farmers. MEA would build and operate a fertilizer store
in the project area, and until a retail network based on public and private
agencies is fully established, would operate retail outlets in townships and
villages. Pesticides are imported as finished products and are usually bought
by farmers from outlets also supplying fertilizers. MEA would serve as sup-
plier of last resort within the project area using the same outlets as for
fertilizers. Seeds (paddy, maize, groundnuts, and pulses) are produced under
supervision of the Department of Agriculture and sold through ASCs. Since
the project does not require special seed varieties, normal seed supply
channels would readily satisfy demand. MEA, however, would ensure adequate
availability of seeds for the project and use proposed fertilizer outlets for
their distribution. Seedlings and cuttings for pepper, cacao, and coffee would
be produced in the project area from material provided by the Minor Export
Crops Research Institute at Matale. The proposed training center near Giran-
duru Kotte would also produce planting materials. Agricultural research would
consist principally of adaptive research for the project area. Findings from
regional research stations would be tested in the area's research farm at the
Giranduru Kotte Training Center. This farm would also provide seasonal train-
ing for all grades of extension workers and would demonstrate recommended
cropping sequences, cultural practices, and other techniques pertaining to
improved farm activities. Basic research relevant for the project area is
currently being carried out in Maha Illupallama (dry zone irrigated crop
husbandry), Batalagoda (paddy breeding), and Matale (cacao, coffee, and
pepper).



- 31 -
Project Design and Construction
4.09      Final planning studies and assistance in the preparation of final
designs and tender documents for project works would be provided by the
Consultant to MDB (paras 3.03, 3.07, and 3.38). Consultants would assist
MDB in preparing specifications and tender documents for project equipment
and vehicles and in supervising project implementation, contract administra-
tion, construction inspection and quality control, determining payments to
contractors, and in coordinating and scheduling of work.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.10      A monitoring and evaluation unit attached to the office of MEA's
Managing Director would be responsible for (a) assessing project implementa-
tion performance and (b) for undertaking and coordinating proposed evaluation
of selected topics discussed in para 3.35. Some of these surveys, especially
the proposed agro-economic studies (para 3.36), could be contracted to one
or more qualified research groups (e.g., the Agricultural Research and Train-
ing Institute (ARTI)) under the supervision of the unit. The proposed monitor-
ing unit would also have responsibility for similar reviews under other Mahaweli
projects and for establishing general evaluation standards and criteria. In
addition, at the field level, the Project Manager would have a small monitor-
ing staff linked to the headquarters unit. Finally, monitoring of water
management, irrigation deliveries, and system losses (para 3.36) would be
the responsibility of the water management staff in the office of DPM (O&M),
under the direct supervision of a senior irrigation engineer. A special unit
would be established for this purpose.
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
4.11      A master planning unit, attached to MASL and communicating with
MEA's headquarters office, would be responsible for allocating Mahaweli Ganga
water for power, irrigation, and other uses and for apportioning irrigation
water among the various Mahaweli projects. Bulk water issues to each project
would be made by MDB, under the direction of the master planning unit. In the
case of System C, this would include water issues to Main Canal No. 1 serving
Zone 2 and Main Canal No. 2 serving Zones 3-6. The water management unit in
the DPM (O&M) office would operate and control water deliveries in the main
and branch canals to each block. The Water Management Supervisor in each
block office would be charged with making water issues as needed to distri-
bution canals. The Water Management Assistant (WMA) at the unit level would
assist farmers within each turnout area (averaging about 12 farmers/turnout)
to distribute water equitably on a rotation basis. He would be responsible
for communicating information about water requirements and management to the
farmers and for recommendirg farmers for participation in periodic training
programs. The WMA would also organize turnout groups and guide them in
maintaining field ditches and drains.



- 32 -
4.12      The Maintenance Division under the DPM (O&M) would be responsible
for maintaining the irrigation system down to farm turnouts. Division staff
would carry out a regular program of maintenance so that complete system
coverage would be achieved at least once every two years. The system would
be maintained in proper condition to ensure that it operates efficiently and
as planned. Modifications would be made as required to reduce seepage and
improve operation.
4.13      Water allocations within each block would depend on the localized
rainfall and the state of crops at scheduled delivery times. The Water Man-
agement Supervisors and Agricultural Officers (AO) at block-level would review
block water requirements at least weekly, and this information would be con-
veyed to the DPM (O&M) by Block Managers. The Operations Division would then
adjust water issues from intermediate reservoirs or reallocate water within
the system according to reported needs and rainfall. MEA would serve as an
enforcement as well as advisory agency to ensure irrigation water is used
efficiently by the farmers and that unauthorized diversions of water do not
occur.
Giranduru Kotte Irrigation Training Center and Farm
4.14      The Center would be the focal point of project staff and settler
training and would provide facilities and instructors necessary for the
various training programs proposed under the project. It would also maintain
an Adaptive Research Farm for System C where new crops and cultural practices
would be tried and demonstrated before being recommended to farmers. It would
produce planting material for perennial crops as well as fruit trees for house-
plots. The Center would be headed by a resident Principal, with assistance
from a Vice-Principal, both having experience in agriculture, adult education,
and administration. The senior Subject Matter Specialist (SMS) in the office
of DPM (Agriculture) and an operations officer in the office of the DPM (Irri-
gation and Water Management) would coordinate with the Principal in developing
cropping and water management trials to be carried on at the 250 ha farm asso-
ciated with the Center. The Farm would be developed for both paddy and
diversified "irrigated dry" cropping, and various types of irrigation systems,
provided under the project, would be installed for training and research
purposes. Short courses would be arranged regularly in agriculture, water
management, and community development. Annual orientation seminars would also
be held for MEA non-technical staff and for farmer-settlers.
4.15      Agricultural Training Courses
(a) Two seven-day training courses would be organized before
each main cropping season for area agricultural staff (96
KVSs and 12 AOs). Apart from Center staff, instructors
would be SMSs attached to the DPM (Agriculture) office
and participating AOs.
(b) About 300 contact farmers would also receive pre-season
training for about two days, arranged to overlap with
that provided for AOs and KVSs.



- 33 -
(c) Field days would be held for farmer groups throughout
the growing seasons to demonstrate particular cultural
practices.
4.16      Water Management Training Courses
(a) In view of the importance of efficient water use to the
success of the Mahaweli Program, water management training
would be compulsory for all MEA staff involved in agri-
culture or irrigation system operation. Irrigation
engineers and Water Management Supervisors would attend
(i) a basic training course lasting about four weeks,
including about 10 days' field work, and (ii) periodic
refresher sessions. WMAs would undergo two weeks of basic
training in water management practices before posting and
would receive additional training at six-month intervals.
Instructors would be senior irrigation staff, outside
lecturers, and Consultant's staff.
(b) Farmer training in efficient water management practices,
operating rules, and other related fields would be a
priority of MEA and the Center. The objective would be to
have as many area farmers as possible eventually undergo a
two-week training program at the Center, during which they
would review thoroughly technical and regulatory matters
related to water management and would learn by using the
various irrigation facilities provided at the Training
Center Farm.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES,
FARM INCOME, AND COST RECOVERY
Agricultural Development with the Project
5.01      About 24,100 ha in System C would receive new irrigation with
the project. Of this total, about 18,500 ha would be located within the IDA
project area (Zones 3-6), and 5,600, outside the project area (Zones 1-2). In
addition to new irrigation capability, the project would provide more assured
water supply to about 3,620 ha (Zones 1-2), thereby allowing higher cropping
intensity than possible without project investments. Out-of-command areas
would be developed to fuelwood and cashew plantations, and grazing areas.
5.02      Irrigated Area.  About 86% of the newly irrigated area in Zones
3-6, or 90% in Zones 1-6, would be placed under a double-cropped paddy rota-
tion with 100% cropping intensity expected in the maha and 80% on the yala by
full development (para 6.09). Approximately half the cropped area under paddy
would be transplanted. Maha plantings, beginning in mid-October, would be
with 3.5-4.0-month varieties. Yala plantings, completed by mid-April, would
require 3.5-month varieties to allow July harvest. Such a cropping schedule



- 34 -
would ensure optimal utilization of rainfall and, therefore, of supplemental
irrigation. Approximately 1,500 ha of commanded land in Zones 3-6 are not
sufficiently water-retentive to permit yala cultivation of paddy. On this
land a maha crop of paddy can be expected, followed in the yala by a variety
of annual crops such as cowpeas, groundnuts, and maize. Average cropping
intensity would be the same as in the paddy rotation discussed above. A
further 1,000 ha would have even lighter soils, and/or would be located on
steeper terrain. These would be planted to pepper, Robusta coffee, and cacao.
About 1,820 ha currently under major tank schemes and 1,800 ha under minor
tank systems would receive more assured water with the project and would
generally continue growing double-cropped paddy. Average cropping intensity
on the former would increase from about 150% (currently and without the
project) to 180% (with the project). On the latter, it would rise from
about 120% to 180% at full development.
5.03      Homeplots and Plantations.  About 3,900 ha in Zones 3-6, or 5,300
ha in Zones 1-6, would be utilized for settler homestead plots. 1/ Homestead
plots are expected to produce a variety of agricultural commodities both
for on-farm consumption and off-farm sale. About 3,000 ha 2/ of out-of-
command area would be placed under fuelwood plantations so that by full
development all home fuel needs would be locally produced. Another 2,000 ha
would be allocated for cashew development.
Future Development without the Project
5.04      Because of easier access into the project area made possible by
increased timber extraction and the cutting of soil survey traces, encroach-
ment would inevitably accelerate were there no project. At present, the
project area supports approximately 3,000 ha of chena cultivation annually.
Without the project, chena is expected to spread over the entire project area
and be replaced gradually by a system of more stable dryland farming, includ-
ing rainfed upland rice where suitable. It is assumed that without the
project rainfed paddy would increase to about 6,100 ha and other annual crops,
to about 23,100 cropped ha.
Yields and Production
5.05      Annex 3, Table 3 summarizes present and projected cropped area,
yields, and production. Paddy yields at full development would range from
4.0-5.0 tons/ha, averaging 4.67 tons/ha. With-project yield and production
estimates are based on the nature of area soils, experience in similar regions
of Sri Lanka, and anticipated success in implementing rigorous water management
and improved agricultural extension programs under the project. Reflecting
assumed development of stabilized rainfed farming without the project, annual
1/   Both farmers-settlers and non-farmer settlers.
2/   One ha per 10 settler-families.



- 35 -
production of about 18,500 tons (in cowpea terms 1/) would be foregone. In
addition to relatively minor non-paddy production, about 202,700 tons of
incremental paddy would be produced with the project over the present case,
or 185,800 tons over the without-project case. Full development production
levels would be reached in 1991 (paddy and other annuals) and in 1993
(perennials). Because of continued without-project development of rainfed
agriculture to maximum levels, net incremental production levels would not
stabilize until about 1996. By this date, the project would generate about
126,300 incremental tons of rice--87,800 tons in Zones 3-6 and 38,500 tons 2/
in Zones 1-2. Total incremental rice output would equal about 10.1% of
1977-79 average production nationwide (Annex 3, Table 1) and would represent,
moreover, about 13.5% of the country's projected incremental rice production
in 1996 assuming low growth rates, and 12.3% assuming higher growth rates
(Annex 3, Table 2). By 1993, project fuelwood plantations would be producing
about 29,400 tons p.a. (98 tons/ha); and by 1995, full development cashew
output--1,750 tons of raw nuts 3/--is expected (875 kg nuts/ha).
Marketing and Pricing of Project Output
5.06      Paddy Marketing and Pricing.  Recent developments in the paddy and
rice marketing sector have reflected GOSL's attempts to extricate itself from
the costly obligations of directly guaranteeing food supplies and of subsidiz-
ing retail prices. Starting in January 1978, ration privileges were withdrawn
from about 50% of the population (those families reporting earnings above
Rs 300/month), which lead to an abrupt expansion of private rice marketing. The
most noteworthy reform, however, has been the introduction of the Food Stamp
Scheme (FSS), replacing the ration program. Under FSS, eligible families 4/
receive food stamps that can be used to purchase rice and other food commodi-
ties. Administered prices for these have since been raised closer to the goal
of cost-plus levels. In addition, these 1978-79 reforms enabled a move toward
a system that truly benefits needy families and compensates them for higher
costs of basic food items.
5.07      This shift to the private sector has major implications not only
for the share of harvest passing through public sector agencies, the Paddy
Marketing Board (PMB) and the Food Department (FD), but also for the roles
that each should play. In general, GOSL's policy objective now is to expand
the role of the private sector while concentrating public sector activities on
stabilizing the market within acceptable limits of seasonal price variation.
Critical to the success of such policies is the setting of a range between
the floor and ceiling prices to provide adequate scope to the private sector
1/   Cowpea has been used as a representative rainfed non-paddy crop in the
without project case.
2/   28,900 tons from new settlement and 9,600 tons from existing tank
systems.
3/   385 tons of kernels.
4/   Family income of Rs 300/month or less.



- 36 -
without adversely affecting producer or consumer interests. IDA advised 1/
that the range between the floor (Guaranteed Price Scheme (GPS) price) and
effective ceiling (price of imported rice) was too wide and that the decision
to sell imports on a cost-plus basis permitted a substantial farmgate price
increase while still providing a satisfactory margin to private rice traders
and without threatening the likely retail price. IDA recommended that the GPS
price be raised from Rs 40 to 50 per bushel by mid-1980 (25%) and that high
fertilizer subsidies be reduced. GOSL recently increased the GPS paddy price
to Rs 52.5/bushel during the 1980/81 maha season, and in early 1981 raised
fertilizer prices by 55-136%. The recent removal of subsidies on imported
wheat and rice has also had a firming impact on paddy prices.
5.08      Rice Imports.  Over the last decade, rice imports averaged 360,000
tons p.a., representing about 29% of consumption. Until February 1980, FD
enjoyed monopolistic control over rice imports, in general arranging foreign
purchases during the November-December period of relatively low international
prices and readily available supplies. During this time, however, only partial
information is available about production that crop year in Sri Lanka.
Recently (1979) this factor has led to relatively large FD imports simultaneous
with large PMB procurement stocks from a bumper crop. Despite new record
paddy production in 1980, about 0.19 M tons of rice were imported in that
year, representing about 12.5% of estimated consumption.
5.09      Paddy Storage and Milling.  PMB currently has about 335,500 tons
of rated storage capacity. PMB also owns 28 rice mills with a capacity of
181,800 tons p.a. To supplement its own capacity, PMB maintains a register
of about 400 "quota mills," having aggregate capacity of about 600,000 tons,
that mill PMB paddy for administered fees and reimbursement for handling and
transport expenses. In addition, there are approximately 1,500 mills operated
by private traders that buy and sell in the open market and also custom mill
for consumers; in 1978, these mills had approximately 1.2 M tons p.a. capacity--
implying a capability of handling about two-thirds of that year's paddy crop.
Private mills vary in capacity and quality from units comparable with rela-
tively large-scale quota mills to small hullers at village level able to
process about 200 kg/hr. Past curtailment of capital goods imports led to
significant obsolescence, breakdown, and consequent poor milling quality in
both the public and private sectors. Private units often lacked cleaners,
separators, and graders. With import liberalization in 1977, increased avail-
ability of machinery and spares has enabled the private sector to assume the
slack created with curtailment of PMB-FD activities in 1978-79. The recently
increased role of the private sector has led to a significant underutilization
of PMB milling capacity. It is expected that with further privatization, PMB
would dispose of or lease unused capacity to private entrepreneurs.
1/   IDA, Sri Lanka:  Key Development Issues in the 1980s, Volume II:
Agricultural Producer Incentives, Report No. 2955-CE, May 29, 1980.



- 37 -
5.10      USAID and other donors are financing projects designed to increase
and upgrade rice milling and storage capacity in Sri Lanka. 1/ Because of
ongoing modernization projects, current capacity underutilizations, and
considerable local capital available for such investments, no new milling
capacity is proposed under the project and only 3,000 tons of transient
storage would be included.
5.11      Cashew Marketing and Processing.  Over the last decade, COSL has
placed emphasis on the development of cashew production because of its rapidly
expanding export potential and the significant unsatisfied local market.
While small-scale cashew cultivation has existed in Sri Lanka for some time,
large-scale commercial production started only in 1968. In 1973 the Sri Lanka
Cashew Corporation (SLCC) was formed to take over large-scale cashew estates
begun in 1968, encourage smallholder cultivation, engage in processing and
marketing, and establish quality controls for exports. SLCC currently operates
two major plantations-Kondachchi (2,750 ha planted with potential to 10,000
ha) and Batticaloa (400 ha)-and also runs several smaller plantations sited
in the Dry Zone. SLCC is attempting to expand its plantings by about 500 ha
p.a. In addition, SLCC administers a smallholder assistance scheme under
which free seedlings and planting subsidies are provided to growers. Acting
on behalf of SLCC, MPCSs buy cashew nuts from growers. Five private processors/
exporters, however, are also active in the cashew market. Since 1977, SLCC
has operated a processing center near Colombo that employs relatively labor-
intensive technology for processing operations.
5.12      Estimation of cashew production in Sri Lanka is difficult due to the
small-scale, dispersed nature of private cultivation. Also, production data
are somewhat misleading since only about 20% of SLCC's trees now planted have
begun to bear. Cashew production in 1980 was expected to reach about 1,000
tons of nuts representing less than 0.5% of world production. Even though
international prices have strengthened considerably in 1980, reflecting
production shortfalls in all major producing countries, SLCC expected exports
to increase only from 78 tons in 1979 to 80 tons in 1980, representing approxi-
mately 36% of the national crop. About 50% of exports were to come from SLCC,
and the balance, from private traders. The project's annual production of
about 1,750 tons of raw nuts would allow a 175% increase over Sri Lanka's
present output level. This incremental quantity should present no marketing
difficulty in view of growing local demand, projected growth in international
demand, particularly from higher income countries, 2/ and apparent interna-
tional consumer preference for the Asian cashew on grounds of flavor and
quality.
1/   The USAID project, begun in 1979, includes modern milling and storage
facilities with parboiling capability, provision for moisture meters,
cleaners and driers, standardization of mill capacity and design, credit
for private millers, technical assistance, and training.
2/   IBRD, Cashew Nuts:  Review and Outlook, Commodity Note No. 5, June 1978.



- 38 -
5.13      Other Agricultural Activities.  A variety of traditional cash and
staple crops would be grown on the remainder of cropped area under the project
(Table 5.1). Incremental output of these commodities can easily be absorbed
through farm family consumption, in local and domestic urban markets, and in
export trade (pepper, cocoa, coffee). With anticipated population growth
(1.6-2.0% p.a.) and increase in real income (2.5-3.0% p.a.), there should be
an assured market for residual commodities not exported. Should temporary,
localized gluts arise, thereby depressing farmgate prices, farmers would have
sufficient alternatives to maintain estimated farm incomes (paras 5.14-5.15).
About 29,400 tons of fuelwood would be produced each year from fuelwood
plantations in out-of-command areas to provide local settlers with basic fuel
requirements. Along with cashew development, the project's fuelwood planta-
tions would be in consonance with Sri Lanka's agro-forestry program.
Farm Income
5.14      Project impact on family incomes was analyzed both for new settler
families acquiring one ha of irrigated land and a 0.2 ha houseplot with the
project and for existing farm families 1/ outside the IDA project area achiev-
ing higher cropping intensities through more assured water supplies. While
current incomes of prospective settlers would vary significantly depending on
economic circumstances, most would be landless families and those operating
sub-economic holdings and would qualify for the FSS 2/; for illustrative
purposes, a representative present income of Rs 3,000 p.a. has been used,
escalated for the without-project case by a projected increase in real wages
of about 2.0% p.a. (1980-90). Hired labor requirements have been estimated
assuming monthly family labor availability of 45 mandays. Net family income
estimates include remuneration for family labor and management. Estimates
include off-farm income, assuming that families could currently earn extra
income of Rs 600 p.a. (increased to reflect real growth in wages). Income
projections also reflect: (a) paddy prices in line with expected world
rice prices; (b) elimination of fertilizer subsidies; (c) water and land
charge regimes proposed in paras 5.18 and 5.20; and (d) maintenance in real
terms of crop insurance premia, perennial crop subsidies, and crop loans.
Inputs and outputs have been valued according to projected 1990 financial
prices expressed in mid-1980 currency units as specified in Annex 4, Table 1.
Table 5.1 presents two estimates of net farm incomes: (a) full development
levels; and (b) annualized levels basically to adjust for initial build-up
periods. Annex 4, Tables 3-7 provide further assumptions and give estimates
of cash position and project rent. 3/
1/   Representative farmer with 1.0 ha paddyland and 0.2 houseplot.
2/   Family income of Rs 300/month or less.
3/   Rent, as used herein, represents net benefits after financing adjusted
for compensation to farm family labor and management. Benefit taxes,
e.g., water and land charges, have not been deducted.



- 39 -
Table 5.1: PROJECTED NET FAMILY INCOME /a
Future                    Project-
Without    Future with   Related         Number
Project      Project      Increase    of Families
(W)          Id -WId
(W)          (W)-       ((W-W)/W)/  Represented
Rs p.a.--------
New Settler Families
A.  Paddy-Paddy Rotation       5,070 /c    30,225            500        10,800
Rotation I /b                        (26,950)         (430)
B.  Paddy-Paddy Rotation       5,070 /c    25,525            425       10,800
Rotation II /e                       (23,700)         (365)
C.  Paddy-Upland Annuals       5,070 /c    14,750            190         1,500
Rotation                              (9,025)          (80)
D.  Perennial Rotation         5,070 /c    14,725            190         1,000
(7,575)         (50)
Sub-total                                                        24,100
Currently Irrigating Farms
A. Major Tanks
1. Paddy-Paddy
Rotation I /b        25,575       31,330            20           910
2. Paddy-Paddy
Rotation II /e       23,545       27,635            20           910
Sub-total                                                         1,820
B. Minor Tanks
1.  Paddyland Farmer      10,820        31,330          190         1,800
Sub-total                                                         3,620
TOTAL                                                          27,720
/a   Net benefits after financing (Annex 4, Tables 3-7).
/b   Mechanized land preparation, transplanted paddy.
/c   Includes direct income of Rs 3,630 p.a. and food stamp allotment worth
an estimated Rs 1,440 p.a.
/d   Non-parenthesized numbers represent full development levels:  year 5
of production for paddy and other annuals and year 7 for perennials.
Parenthesized numbers represent annualized estimates (25-year period @
12% p.a. rate of interest) basically to adjust for initial period of
learning/inefficiency to reach full development in annual crop production
and for initial development period of perennial crops.
/e   Non-mechanized land preparation, broadcast paddy.
5.15      As expected, the project would have a dramatic impact on income
levels reflecting both the low base in the case of new settlers and the pro-
ductive potential of irrigated land. New settlers would realize on average
about a 425% increase in family income (full development) and 350% (annualized).
In effect, most of the increment can be viewed as a catching up by the cur-
rently disadvantaged to those farmers operating fully irrigated land. Vari-
ability within the new settler group would be due principally to different
crop rotations and technologies adopted. Families adopting the perennial



- 40 -
rotation are projected not to derive positive incremental income until the
sixth year of the crop cycle. In fact, however, this would be mitigated by
taking advantage of the considerable employment prospects expected off-the-
farm as System C develops and by mixing cultivation of annuals with perennials
to improve cash flows. Farm families in major tank schemes outside the
project area would continue enjoying relatively high income levels without the
project stemming from high yields and moderate cropping intensities (150%).
Therefore, the expected boost in income (20%) from higher cropping intensity
(180%) with the project would be modest in comparison, but would still provide
considerable returns to incremental family labor utilized. Those in existing
minor tank schemes would enjoy increased income averaging 190% from higher
intensities (from 120% to 180%) and improved farming practices.
Cost Recovery
5.16      A fundamental objective of the Mahaweli Program is the establishment
of a viable and sustainable socio-economic environment for a large portion of
the poor within Sri Lankan society. Settlers are selected for project areas
from applicants whose incomes prior to selection are judged inadequate (para
3.22). They tend to come from areas experiencing overpopulation and high
levels of unemployment and underemployment. Such applicants would, in the
main, be below the absolute poverty level (US$105 per capita p.a.). Without
the Mahaweli Scheme, therefore, the bulk of applicants would be a burden to
the government budget since they would qualify for food assistance payments.
With the project, this public subsidy would be reduced, and saved resources
could be reallocated to satisfy other national priorities.
5.17      Investment and Recurrent Costs.  Investment costs of project works--
Right Bank Transbasin Canal (prorated), irrigation and drainage infrastructure,
land development, roads, social and administrative infrastructure, equipment,
settlement assistance, monitoring, and technical assistance--would amount to
about Rs 1,170 M in present value (FV) terms. 1/ 2/ Irrigation infrastructure
and land development would represent about 477% of this total. Recurrent
expenses for project works O&M would amount to about Rs 57 M (PV), or about
Rs 800/ha p.a. Thus, the PV of investment and recurrent costs over the
50-year projected life of the project would total about Rs 1,227 M.
5.18      Water Charges.  Under the Irrigation Ordinance of 1946, as amended
in 1968, GOSL was empowered to impose water charges toward recovery of capital
and O&M costs of irrigation systems. Initial charges were set at Rs 75/ha (in
major schemes with cropping intensity of 150% or higher 3/) with a view to
1/   Analysis done in constant mid-1980 currency units.
2/   Twelve percent p.a. discount rate used to calculate PV.  US$ converted
into Rs at the official rate of Rs 18.0/US$. Includes physical contin-
gencies and allowances for engineering, supervision, and administration,
but excludes price contingencies.
3/   Major scheme defined as 80 ha or more.  Rs 50/ha was set for lands in
major schemes achieving cropping intensity of less than 150%.



- 41 -
revising these to gradually recover full O&M costs in five years. No rate
revisions have yet been made. This current water charge level is equivalent
to about 15% of estimated average costs of O&M requirements of about Rs 500
for the entire Mahaweli Ganga Development Scheme. To start collection, GOSL
first had to update registers and establish collection machinery. Thereafter,
a beginning has been made in 1979 and 1980 with small amounts collected.
Based on the experience of the past two years, GOSL is now attempting to
strengthen the collection mechanism. As part of an effort to achieve an
appropriate level of cost recovery from farm families benefitting from Mahaweli
development, assurances have been obtained from GOSL that it would implement a
program in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to IDA to collect water
charges in areas under the Mahaweli Ganga Development Scheme at a level
sufficient by September 30, 1991 to recover at least the average cost of O&M
of irrigation and drainage facilities within these areas. Selected areas,
representing about 12% of the total area under the Mahaweli Ganga Development
Scheme, may at present be exempted from this program since they were either
developed under earlier schemes or would be otherwise unaffected by proposed
Mahaweli Prcgram investments. Increases would be made according to the
following schedule starting in September 1982:
Percent of Average
Actual O&M Cost
Year                              Recovery
1982                                 22
1983                                 29
1984                                 36
1985                                 43
1986                                 50
1987                                 60
1988                                 70
1989                                 80
1990                                 90
1991                                100
Collection of water charges would begin one year after water is issued to
each settler-farmer, allowing cultivation of maha and yala crops before
such charges would be due. As a result, water charge collections within the
project area would total about Rs 33 M in PV terms. Assurances have also been
obtained that GOSL would review water charges periodically, with a view to
recover costs additional to O&M, taking into account farmers' incentives and
ability to pay as well as the need to mobilize domestic resources, and after
consultation with IDA, would introduce further adjustments to the level of
water charges based on the conclusions and recommendations of these reviews.
5.19      Reduced Public Assistance.  At a rate of about Rs 120/family/month,
about Rs 118 M (PV) would be saved in public assistance (FSS) with the
project, assuming continuation of the stamp scheme or another comparable
program, that could be available to finance other budgetary requirements.



- 42 -
5.20      Land Transfers.  In 1973 GOSL enacted the Sale of State Lands Law
under which land would be sold to settlers. On average, the sales price of
land under this law would be set at about Rs 8,775/ha of farmland with a view
to recovering at least the cost of on-farm works and settlement assistance
allowances. Unfortunately, few collections, if any, were made under this law
prior to its repeal in 1979. Under the recently approved amendment to the
Land Development Ordinance of 1936, GOSL intends on a nationwide basis to
recover costs of land improvements from settlers benefitting from development
schemes. The technical and procedural details to effect such recovery are
now being prepared and are expected to be finalized by September 1981. To
complement proposed measures to recover O&M costs, assurances have been
obtained that GOSL would commence implementation by December 31, 1982 of a
program satisfactory to IDA for the transfer of rights to project benefi-
ciaries of land improved under the project in accordance with an installment
plan and at rates sufficient to recover the costs of improvements to such land.
Rates for newly irrigated land would cover the full costs of settlement assis-
tance, land clearing, on-farm development, field canals and field drains,
and any other improvements agreed to between GOSL and IDA by December 31,
1982. Rates for houseplot land would cover the full costs of land clearing.
The installment plan under which settler-beneficiaries would make land
transfer payments would include a ten-year payment period, with a possible
two-year extension for exceptional circumstances, and the highest annual
interest rate permitted under prevailing legislation for such payments. 1/
The payment period would be preceeded by a three-year probationary period
to ensure a settler's acceptability for the scheme. Cost of improvements
agreed to are estimated to total (in mid-1980 terms) about Rs 26,000 per
settler family receiving one irrigated ha for cultivation and a 0.2 ha
houseplot. Inclusion of other land improvement costs--specifically for
distributor canals, main and secondary drains, and main and branch canals--
would increase the above transfer price to about Rs 55,200 per family.
5.21      Summary.  Table 5.2 below demonstrates that about 15% of total
costs would be recovered through the project. This level of recovery is
considered reasonable in view of the low income base of most beneficiaries
without the project, the fact that with additional water and land charges
proposed their average incomes with the project (US$225 per capita p.a.)
would lie only near the current national coverage (US$220 2/), the erosive
impact of relatively high projected domestic inflation on the real value of
land installment payments, and the historical difficulties in implementing
cost recovery schemes in Sri Lanka. The land charge mechanism proposed
under the project is meant to offer a simple, project-specific procedure for
recovering investment costs.   Since GOSL intends to apply a similar program
of recovery of land charges in other areas developed under the Mahaweli
Program, the project's recovery scheme is expected to serve as a prototype
suitable for replication elsewhere. While the cost recovery record in Sri
Lanka has been disappointing to date, it is hoped that the stronger legis-
lative framework now in place as well as the firmer institutional support
expected with MEA will permit significant improvement in future.
1/   Currently 4%.
2/   Preliminary World Bank estimate of mid-1980 disposable income.



- 43 -
Table 5.2: PRESENT VALUES OF PROJECT INCREMENTAL
COST AND RECOVERY STREAMS
Rs M
Recoveries
Water Charges                                        33.1
Land Sales                                           36.3
Saved Public Assistance                             117.5
Total                                           186.9
Costs
Investment Costs                                  1,169.2
Recurrent Costs (O&M)                                57.3
Total                                         1,226.5
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS
Overview
6.01      The project would enable development of currently unexploited and
underutilized land resources in the Mahaweli Ganga basin for intensive agri-
cultural development. As a result, the project also would create a viable
financial base in irrigated farming for about 18,500 settler families in the
IDA project area and 24,100 new settler families in the entire System C, most
of whom would be selected from the lower income strata of the Sri Lankan
population. About 3,600 existing farm families in Zones 1 and 2 would
benefit from more assured water supplies. As agricultural production expands,
secondary and tertiary industries would also develop thereby increasing
further opportunities for economic growth and employment supporting another
7,200 non-farming families within System C. Project settlers would be
supported by comprehensive technical and social infrastructure packages to
ensure agricultural success and social well-being. Residual out-of-command
areas remaining after residential development would become grazing zones and
fuelwood and cashew plantations, the latter assisting GOSL agroforestry and
erosion control efforts. By reducing rice imports and increasing exports
(coffee, cocoa, pepper, cashews), the project would have a beneficial impact
on GOSL's balance of payments. In total, the project at full development
would generate annually, as its principal economic benefits, an estimated
126,300 tons of incremental rice, about 330 tons each of pepper, cocoa, and
coffee, 29,400 tons of fuelwood, 385 tons of cashew kernels, and an assortment
of other annual crops predominantly for local consumption.
Employment and Income Effects
6.02      With new agriculture-based settlement and higher land-use intensities,
agricultural labor requirements in System C would expand from about 0.9 M
mandays at present to about 5.1 M mandays with the project at full development.
Reflecting prospects for dryland farming and increased productivity on irri-
gated area without the project (Table 5.1), incremental agricultural employment
attributable to the project would be about 3.1 M mandays annually. About 0.3
M mandays would represent labor demand in out-of-command tree crop activities



- 44 -
offering off-season employment to settler families. Farmer-settlers would
essentially be self-contained in satisfying labor requirements for crop
production; only about 0.2 M mandays of labor (4%) would be hired-in for
such activities. In addition, development within System C would generate
considerable employment in the construction of physical infrastructure,
marketing and processing of agricultural produce, and in provision of social
services.
6.03      About 90% of direct project beneficiaries would be new settler
families most of whom are currently landless or operating subeconomic holdings.
Most of these would qualify for the FSS (i.e. earn less than Rs 300/month 1/)
and would, therefore, lie below the IDA-estimated absolute poverty level of
US$105 (Rs 1,890) per capita p.a. Even with the water and land charges pro-
posed (paras 5.18 and 5.20), their average effective income would increase
about 3.5 times from without project levels. Another 5% of beneficiaries
would be farm families currently engaged in moderately intensive irrigated
farming under major tank schemes in Zones 1-2. These families would earn
incomes significantly above the absolute poverty line without the project and
would derive only about a 20% average increase in net family income through
greater cropping intensities permitted by the project. The remaining 5% of
beneficiaries would be farm families currently receiving partial irrigation
from minor tanks who would also earn income above the absolute poverty level
without the project; with the project, their incomes would treble with higher
cropping intensities and yields.
Direct Foreign Exchange Effects
6.04      Based on projected 1990 international prices expressed in mid-1980
currency units, the annual gross foreign exchange value of incremental pro-
duction of tradeables generated through the project is estimated at about
US$61.2 M at full development, 91% of which would come from rice production
(import substitution). 2/ Adjusting for foreign exchange costs of traded
recurrent inputs (US$6.6 M) and foreign exchange O&M costs of the irrigation
system and agricultural support (US$0.2 M), the project's identifiable direct
foreign exchange effect would total about US$54.4 M p.a.
Benefits to the Economy and Economic Analysis
6.05      Considering all incremental capital and recurrent costs and benefits
valued in border rupees and constant currency values, the Sri Lankan economy
is expected to realize net benefits from project investments (Zones 1-6) of
about Rs 1,025 M (US$56.9 M) in present worth (PW) terms, which when annual-
ized over the 50-year expected project life would yield about Rs 123 M p.a.
(US$6.8 M). Net returns per rupee of investment (PW) would be about Rs 0.70.
The economy of Sri Lanka would realize an economic rate of return (ERR) from
total project investments, inclusive of physical contingencies, of about 18%.
1/   Equivalent to about US$34 per capita p.a.
2/   Rice imports avoided have been valued on commercial terms since little,
if any, rice is received under food aid programs.



- 45 -
The following summarizes ERRs and NPWs of benefits from each project component
and from the total project:
ERR     NPW /a (Rs M)   NPW /a (US$ M)
Irrigation                   17.8        950.6              52.8
Cashew Plantations           40.7         53.8               3.0
Fuelwood Plantations         20.9         20.3               1.1
Total Project          18.0      1,024.7               56.9
/a   Discounted at Opportunity Cost of Capital (OCC) of 12%.
The economic cash flow for the total project is provided in Annex 4, Table 8
with a full referencing of underlying assumptions. The following, however,
outline the principal assumptions underlying the economic analysis:
(a)  Project Life and Phasing.  The project would have an antici-
pated life of 50 years. Project implementation would require
seven years (Annex 4, Table 8), incorporating investments in
auxiliary structures begun in 1980 under GOSL financing (para
3.03).   Phasing of project settlement is given in para 3.42.
Production on newly settled land is assumed to begin one year
after settlement. Annual crop production would reach with-
project yields/intensities within five years, and minor export
crops, within seven years. Fuelwood is assumed harvested
after a ten-year growing period. Full production levels are
expected as follows: annual crops, 1991; perennials, 1993;
fuelwood, 1993; and cashews, 1995 (para 6.10).
(b)  Prices.  For internationally traded goods, prices were derived
from projected 1990 world market prices expressed in mid-1980
currency values. Appropriate adjustments were made for freight,
handling, processing, and quality differentials. Local costs
and locally valued benefits were expressed in border rupees
through application of appropriate conversion factors, the
principal one being a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of
0.90. 1/ To reflect increased demand for labor under
the Accelerated Program, a 2.0% p.a. increase in economic
wages (peak period) has been assumed for the 1980-90 period.
To adjust for the marked seasonality of labor demand in the
cropping rotations expected, a 33% discount has been made for
slack period labor. Year-specific prices have been used for
inputs and outputs over the 1980-90 period, after which 1990
prices were assumed to remain unchanged in real terms for the
remainder of the project life. Input and output prices used
in the economic analysis are summarized in Annex 4, Table 1.
1/   Official Exchange Rate (OER)   Rs 18.0/US$.  Shadow Exchange Rate (SER) =
Rs 20.0/US$.  SCF = OER/SER = 18.0/20.0 = 0.90.



- 46 -
(c)  Benefits.  Incremental crop benefits are based on most prob-
able yields attainable with project investments (Table 5.1 and
para 5.07). Fuelwood produced on project plantations has been
valued on a kerosene basis.
(d)  Investment Costs.  The following highlight special treatment
given to certain project-related investment costs:
(i) Victoria Dam and Reservoir. Costs associated with
construction of Victoria Dam and Reservoir were con-
sidered sunk costs, since (1) earlier studies 1/
showed that storage at Victoria would not normally
be required to satisfy irrigation water demand for
System C (unregulated river flows are adequate,
except possibly during minimum weekly flow periods
in some years when minimal storage might be needed);
and (2) Victoria has been justified on the basis of
power alone and will be constructed whether System C
is developed or not.
(ii)  Transbasin Canal.  NEDECO made separate (single proj-
ect) canal sizing studies for both System! B and C
and sound that about equal capacity (30 m /sec vs
31 m /sec) would be required for a single project
canal for each system. Therefore, 50% of the costs
of the Transbasin Canal and reservoir complex has
been allocated to System C in the economic analysis.
However, a sensitivity test was made to determine
the impact on the NPW should System C bear the full
(incremental) cost (para 6.09).
(iii)  Main Roads and Social Infrastructure.  It was assumed
that most of these works and services would be carried
out with or without the project. An estimated one
third of the costs of these items has been charged,
however, to the project in part to reflect incremental
costs associated with their establishment in System C
and their importance to project success.
(e) Crop Production Costs. Per ha input requirements by crop
are specified in Annex 4, Table 2. The total farm labor con-
tingent, including family inputs, was assessed according to
economic wages summarized in Annex 4, Table 1. Adjustment was
made in the crop production cost stream to reflect realistic-
ally the staggered incurrence of costs and derivation of
benefits in agricultural activities (Annex 4, Table 8).
1!   NEDECO, Mahaweli Ganga Development Program Implementation Strategy Study,
September 1979.



- 47 -
(f)  Other Project Effects.  The following minor or non-
quantifiable effects have been omitted from the economic
analysis: (i) environmental impact (paras 3.48-3.50 and
6.08); (ii) demonstration effect to farmers outside System C;
(iii) remaining extractable timber 1/ and residual wood use-
able for fuel; (iv) incremental employment generated from
commodity processing, handling, transport, and marketing;
(v) non-agricultural benefits (health, well-being, employment
mobility, etc.) derived from social infrastructure; and
(vi) scrap value of project equipment.
Project Risks and Sensitivity Tests
6.06      The Mahaweli Program dominates the public investment program and
will severely strain financial and real resources. A risk that the project
faces is that adjustments to the public investment program to match resource
availabilities would have an adverse impact on the pace of downstream develop-
ment, particularly in 1982 and 1983. This risk is greatly mitigated by the
high proportion of total downstream costs that are already borne by donors and
by likely additional aid flows and domestic resource mobilization efforts in
support of the public investment program. Assurances have been obtained that
GOSL will make adequate budgetary provisions for the project. In addition,
GOSL has indicated intention to give downstream development its highest
priority. There remains the risk, however, of a shortage of real resources.
The availability of these will be carefully monitored and is part of an
ongoing dialogue between the Bank and GOSL. However, delays in implementation
would lower economic returns (NPW). A sensitivity test (para 6.10) confirmed
that the project remained viable with a two-year prolongation of project
implementation.
6.07      Full realization of estimated benefits is dependent upon successful
implementation of the water management program proposed with complementary
establishment of strong institutional support and effective agricultural ex-
tension. Given the history of excessive water use by Sri Lankan farmers,
enforcement of operational rules for optimal water use will require consider-
able effort by MEA. Any serious failure in this regard could cause a signi-
ficant water shortage, particularly at the extremities of the irrigation
system, thereby causing benefit reduction. The project has attempted to
mitigate these problems by proposing a strong water management program and by
seeking GOSL strengthening of MEA with enforcement authority (para 4.11-4.15).
6.08      While it is difficult to quantify precisely the negative environ-
mental impacts of the project, it is clear that some will no doubt occur,
particularly with regard to area wildlife, including some endangered/threatened
species endemic to Sri Lanka. Given the fundamental problem of increasing
population pressure on limited land resources, many of these environmental
costs are viewed as unavoidable with or without System C or Mahaweli develop-
ment but could be mitigated through coupling of environmental safeguards with
1/   Recent surveys (TAMS) in the project area indicate that most of the
valuable timber within System C has already been removed through legal
and illicit felling operations.



- 48 -
organized development.  At the present time GOSL is reviewing recommendations
concerning how best to avoid or minimize adverse environmental effects. GOSL
has agreed to implement an action program acceptable to IDA to address these
environmental issues and to submit such a program for IDA review and concur-
rence by December 31, 1981.
6.09      Sensitivity Tests.  Sensitivity tests were performed to assess the
impact of variations in incremental cost and benefit streams on the project's
viability. Switching values (SV) for individual and total cost and benefit
streams are provided in Annex 4, Table 9. This table also presents PWs for
total cost and benefit streams with their breakdown into respective categories.
While an opportunity cost of capital (OCC) of 12% has been assumed throughout
the analysis, SVs were also calculated at lower and higher discount rates
(10-14% p.a.). A plot of PWs for total project cost and benefit streams
against various discount rates is presented in Annex 4, Chart l(a); a locus
of all possible SVs for aggregate costs and benefits 1/ is provided in Chart
1(b). The SVs demonstrate, and the figures illustrate, that the project can
bear a relatively large amount of shock and still retain economic viability.
For example, at the OCC, allocated costs of the Transbasin Canal and related
works (50%) would have to increase by 300% to drive the NPW to zero. However,
even if System C were required to bear the full cost of a scaled down Trans-
basin Canal, only about a 40% increase in the original 50% allocation to
System C would be needed (para 6.05(d-ii)). SVs also indicate that the
project would remain economically attractive with up to a 23% reduction (180%
to 139%) in cropping intensity. 2/ In the unlikely event that the intensity
is maintained but yields drop, the average paddy with-project yield could fall
from 4.67 tons/ha at full development to 3.6 tons/ha and the project would
remain viable. Illustrating the interaction of these two variables, should
average yield decline to 4.2 tons (10%), average intensity on paddyland could
fall to 156% (13%). These reduced yields/intensities would still provide
farmer-settlers sufficient income incentives to participate in the project.
Assuming 3.6 tons/ha, new paddy farmers would still earn about 225% higher
income at full development.
6.10      In another sensitivity test, the project's implementation period
was lengthened by two years. With delay of benefits and some associated costs
to reflect this change, the NPW for the project would fall from a base case
of Rs 1,025 M to Rs 600 M, and the ERR would decline from 18% to about 16%.
In the unlikely event that full development benefits are delayed by two more
years, the combined effect would cause the ERR to fall to about 12%.
1/   Discounted at OCC = 12%.
2/   Cropping intensity in major tank schemes in Zones 1-2 currently averages
150%.



- 49 -
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Assurances have been obtained from GOSL that:
(a)  implementation of agricultural extension services
established in the project area would be in accordance
with the systematic approach under the nationwide
Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
assisted by IDA (para 3.25);
(b) with regards to rural credit,
(i) it would make arrangements to provide adequate rural
credit to project area residents;
(ii! such institutional credit would be supported by
adequate supervisory staff and facilities; and
(iii)  credit arrangements would be reviewed periodically
and adjusted as required (para 3.30);
(c)  it would allocate to System C the full amount of water
required from the Mahaweli Ganga for project use
(para 3.33);
(d)  with regards to project monitoring,
(i) a special monitoring and evaluation program would
be established to assess project performance over
the 1982-90 period;
(ii) it would prepare the details of this program for
review by IDA by March 31, 1982; and
(iii)  it would implement a program satisfactory to IDA
by September 30, 1982 (para 3.37);
(e)  consultants required to assist in project implementation
would be appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA (para 3.40);
(f)  adequate and timely funds would be provided for project
implementation (para 3.43);
(g)  with regards to accounts and audits,
(i) separate accounts would be established and main-
tained for the project by MASL, MEA, and MDB;



- 50 -
(ii)  accounts and financial statements would be audited
annually by an independent auditor acceptable to
IDA;
(iii) copies of unaudited annual project accounts would be
sent to IDA for review not later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year, followed by certified
copies of the audited accounts and auditor's report
within 12 months of the end of each fiscal year; and
(iv)  the auditor's report would include, inter alia, a
statement that funds disbursed against statements of
expenditure had been used for the purposes for which
they were provided (para 3.47);
(h)  with regards to the environment,
(i)  it would furnish to IDA for its review and concurrence
by December 31, 1981 a program to avoid and minimize
negative environmental impacts in System C and under
the entire Accelerated Mahaweli Ganga Development
Program; and
(ii)  it would commence implementation by March 31, 1982
of such a conservation program satisfactory to IDA
(para 3.51);
(i)  with regard to water charges,
(i)  it would implement a program in accordance with a
timetable satisfactory to IDA to collect water charges
in areas under the Mahaweli Ganga Development Scheme
at a level sufficient by September 30, 1991 to recover
at least the average cost of O&M of irrigation and
drainage facilities within these areas;
(ii)  it would review such charges periodically, with a
view to recover costs additional to O&M, taking into
account farmers' incentives and ability to pay as
well as the need to mobilize domestic resources; and
(iii) after consultation with IDA, it would introduce further
adjustments to the level of water charges based on the
conclusions and recommendations of these reviews (para
5.18); and
(j)  it would commence implementation by December 31, 1982 of
a program satisfactory to IDA for the transfer of rights to
project beneficiaries of land improved under the project in
accordance with an installment plan and at rates sufficient
to recover the costs of improvements to such land (para 5.20).



- 51 -
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit would be:
(a) arrangements satisfactory to IDA for commitments from
project co-financiers (para 3.43);
(b) the establishment of MEA, with delegated authority from MASL
to ensure efficient use of water resources (para 4.04); and
(c) the appointments of the MEA Managing Director, the four MEA
head office Managers, and the Project Manager for System C
(para 4.04).
7.03      With the above agreements and conditions of effectiveness, the
proposed project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$90.0 M on standard
IDA terms. The Borrower would be the Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.



SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Climatological Factors Related to Estimating Crop Water Requirements
Total
Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May   Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec   or mean
A.  Measured Values
1. At Alutterama-/
(Altitude 280 metres msl
Latitude 800 58'E 7027vN)
Mean Monthly Rainfall (mm)    156   145   119   107    70            4    68    35   128   276   313   497   1,918
Sunshine (hrs/day)                 5      6      7      7      7     7      7      8      6     5      5      3        6
Solar Radiation
(cal/cm2/day)        2/        328   316   344   374   404   404   374   321   422   332   235   215               339
Wind Movement (km/hr)-              6     5      6      6      7    10.    11    1o    10        6     5      5        7
Temperature (C)
Maximum Average                 30    32    33    35    36    36    36    36    35    34    32    30                34
Minimum Average                 22    21    22    23    23    22    20    22    22    21    24    21                22
Relative Humidity (%)
8:30 a.m.                       87    84    87    84    81    73    70    67    71    82    87    89                80
5:30 p.m.                       68    71    62    56    58    46    47    46    50    61    70    81                60
2. At Horabora Wewa3/
Mean Monthly Rainfall (mm)    373   235   117   161    64    16    31    64    65   199   365   465   2,155
3. At Hinguragoda-/
Mean Monthly Rainfall (mm)    184   102    68   124    79    10    53    50    94   197   296   385   1,643
B.  Computed Value
Water Use by Reference Crop
(ETo) mm/mo 4/                 134   132  '176   178   183   193   200   217   191   147   130   101   1,982
1/  Means of 3 to 4 years data April 1976-July 1979.
2/  Measured at 3 height above ground but adjusted upwards (by correlation with adjacent stations) to counter                       -.
effects of nearby mountain ranges.
3/ Lo,ng-term record (1950-1977).
4/ Modified Penman Method.
Ul



SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Commanded Land Class Inventory in System C (ha)
(Low Rotalawela) 1/
New Area
Land now Cultivated             ----------------------------- Gross -----------------------------            -----------          Net 2/ -------------------
Commanded                              Class    Class    ---------Class 6                                         Class    Class    Class 6
by Exist-    Supplied                   1-3        5      Suitable        Suitable for    Rock          Total       1-3        5       Suitable      Total
ing Tanks    by Minor                                     for Ho%Lse-    Firewood &        Knobs  &    Gross                           for Tree      Net
in Zones     Tanks and    Sub-                            plots and      Conserva-         Erosion      New                            Crops         New       System
I and 2      Rainfall      Total                          Tree Crops    tion Forest        Remnants    Area        _                                 Area      Total
Zone 1                1,770           1,800      3,570        340       -            -               -              -           340        300       -           -          300       3,870
Zone 2                    50      /      6           50     4,750       980  -------- '1,010  ---------             -         6,7        4040        830         430      5.30        5350
Sub-total             1,820           1,800      3,620      5,090       980                1,010                    -         7,080      4,340       830         430    5,600         9,220
Zone 3                                ( 453/)   (  45)    3,050         690          210             -              10        3,960      2,590       590         180    3,360         3,360
Zone 4                                ( 40-/)   (  40)   14,880    1,340             140            130             10       16,500    12,650    1,140           120   13,910        13,910
Zone 5                                (  203/)   (  20)    3,450        480           170            -              20        4,120      2,930       410         140    3,480         3,480
Zone 6                                (   53     (   5)    3.050        880          230           230             100        4.490      2.590       750         200    3540          3,540
Sub-total                             ( 110  )   ( 110)   24,430    3,390             750           360            140       29,070    20,760    2,890           640   24,290        24,290
Total System C        1,820           1,800       3,620    29,520    4,370    --------  2,260                                36,150    25,100    3,720         1,070   29,890        33,510
1/ Excludes areas that would be inundated by the potential Rotalawela Reservoir at maximum flood level of 70 M MSL.
2/  Gross area reduced by about 15% for blocking out losses and land required for canals, drains, roads, bunds, etc.
3/  Included in "new areas" to be developed.



SRI LANKA
Mahaweli Canga Development Project III
Expected Use of Commanded Area
(net ha)
Zones                                                 Zones                                        System
1/          1/Sse
1 -         2 -           Sub-total         3          4          5          6          Sub-total      Total
Present Cultivation (rice-rice)
Major tanks                                     1,770           50            1,820           -          -          -          -               -          1,820
2/2/                                     2/         2/2//                              ___
Minor tanks and rainfed                         1 800          460-           1 800           45-/       40-        20-           5-           110-       1 800
Total present cultivation                      3,570            50            3,620          Nil        Nil        Nil         Nil            Nil         3,620
Proposed House Plot Development
Farmer settlers (0.2 ha)                          5/            5/              5/           510      2,130        540         520          3,700         3,700
Non-farmer settlers (0.1 ha)                      5/            5/              5/            90        370        100          90             650          650
Sub-total house plots                         5/            5/               5/           600      2,500        640         610          4,350        4,350
Proposed Farm Land Development'
Rice-rice                                         300       5,300             5,600        2,200      9,900      2,200       1,700         16,000       21,600
Rice-upland crops                                   0            0                0          250        550        300         400          1,500         1,500
Perennial irrigated crops                           0            0                0          100        200        200         500           1 000        1 OOC
Sub-total irrigated farm land                 300        5,300             5,600        2,550    10,650       2,700       2,600         18,500       24,100
Non-irrigated pasture (hamlet areas)                0            0                0          210        640        140         450           1,440        1,440
Sub-total Farm Land Development               300        5,300             5,600        2,760    11,290       2,840       3,050         19,940       25,540
Total Net Commanded Area                       3,870        5,350             9,220        3,360    13,910       3,480       3,540         24,290        33,510
1/ Not included in IDA project.
>    2/  Will be allocated under proposed development, therefore does not appear in totals of present cultivation.                                                          H
3/  Tradesman, artisans and service personnel (35% of farmer settlers)
4/  Based on land classes (Table 1) and soil structure classification.
5/  Settlement pattern differs from that in Zones 3-6.                                                                                                                w "



ANNEX 1
Table 4
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Irrigation and Drainage System Summary - Zones 3 to 6 of System C
Initial Capacity m3/s       Length  (km)
Main Canal No. 2                             50                   24.4
Branch Canal No. 1                            5                    6.4
Branch Canal No. 2                           31                   30.5
Branch Canal No. 3                            5                    7.0
Branch Canal No. 4                            7                    2.4
Branch Canal No. 5                            5                    8.4
Minor Branch Canals (14)                  0.5 - 5.0               50.4 (total)
D-Canals                                      -                  360
Farm Canals                                   -                 850
Primary and Secondary Drains                  -                 165
Field Drains                                  -                 650
Structures on Main and Branch Canals                             No.
Main Canals:
Level Crossings                                                  2
Under Crossings                                                21
Cross Regulators                                                6
Takeoffs                                                        8
Measuring Flumes & Weirs                                         I
Drops                                                           2
Branch Canals:
Level Crossings                                                19
Under Crossings                                                47
Regulators                                                     22
Turnouts                                                       92
Measuring Weirs                                                16
Drops                                                           6
Bridges on Main & Branch Canals                                  47
55



ANNEX 1
Table 5
SRI LANIA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Social Infrastructure Buildings
Zone       Zones
2         3 - 6                  Total
Schools 6 Teachers' Quarters
Primary School Buildings                     21          75                     96
Staff Quartersz  Head Teacher                21          75                     96
Teachers-                17           61                     78
Junior Secondary School Buildings             6          18                     24
Staff Quarters:  Principal                    6          18                     24
TeachersY                  6          18                     24
Senior Secondary School Building
(incl. hostel)               1           1                      2
Staff Quarters:  Principal                    1           1                      2
Teachers3/                 4           4                      8
Medical & Public Health Buildingt
Peripheral Unit (Cottage Hospital)            1           1                      2
Public Health Dispensaries                    3           9                    12
Public Health Midwive-/                      11          37                     48
Staff Quarters: Ast. Med. Prac.               2           2                      4
Public Health Staff         2           2                      4
Nursing Staff               3           3                      6
Dispenser                   3           9                     12
ComDunity Development Centres
Meeting Halls                                 5          20                     25
Other Administration Buildings
Town Council Hall & Buildings                 1           1                      2
Grama Sevaka Offices                         I.                                  6
Police Stationo                               1           1                      2
Police Posts                                  2          10                     12
Telephone Exchange, main                      1           -                      i
branch                 1            1                     2
Posts & Telegraph Office                      1           1                      2
Sub-Post Office-/                             2          10                    12
Post Boxes                                   21          75                    96
Rural Banks                                   2          10                    12
Markets                                       1           1                      2
Police Quarters:  Sub-Inspector               1           1                      2
NCOs                      3          10                    13
Constables 6/             9          30                    39
Pertilizer, Seed & Pesticide &
World Food Program Stores
Central Stores                         1           1                      2
Unit Stores                           21          75                     96
lf  Assumes  two third of the teachers will be local residents.                                    56
2/ Assumes half the teachers will be local hire.
3/ Assumes all require accommodation.
4/ Residence, with clinic as an anoexe.
5/ Includes sub-postmaster's residence.
6/ Two constables share one quarter.



SRI LANTKA                                                    ; sEF  I
Table 6
MAhAWELI 8C740  DEVELOPNENT PROJECT III
Social Infrastructure Buildinsc
(Zones 3 to 6 only)
(R. 000)
Unit           1982               1983               1984               1985                1986               Total
Costs     No.      Coot       No.     Cost       No.      Cost      No.      Cost       No.      Coot       No.      Cost
Schools & Te..hers' Rouses
Primary Schools                           113       11    3,465        16    3,040         16    5,040        16    5,040         16     5,040        75    23,625
Quarters: Head Teacher                    125       11    1,375         16    2,000        16    2,000        16    2,000         16     2,000        75      9,375
Teacher                         125      11    1,375         16    2,000        16    2,000        16    2,0D0         16     2,000        75      9,375
Junior Secondary Schools                1,080        3    3,240          3    3,240         4    4,320         4    4,320          4     4,320        16    19,440
Quarters: Principal                       220        3       660 .       3      660         4      885         4       880         4       880        18      3,960
Teacbhe                         125       6       750         6      750         1    1,000               1.000         S      1,00        36      4,509
Senior Reonadary School                 5,575        -       _           _      _           _      .           1.   5,575                              1      5,575
(iRcl. hostel)
220       -       -           -      -           -       -          1       220         -       -           1        220
Teacher                         125       -       -           -      _           -       -           4      500         -       -            4       500
Sub-total Educadion                                      10,865              13,690             15,240             21,535               15,240               76,570
Medical & Public health Buildinss
Peripheral Unit                         1,890        -        -          -      -           -       -          I    1,890          -       -           1      I,8hm
Pablic Health Dispen.arien                 334       1       334         2      668         2       668        2       668         2      666          9      3,006
Public health Midwif-eA                    150        7    1,050         8    1,200         8    1,200          8    1,200         6       900        37      5,550
Quarters: Asst. Med. Offi-er               220       -       -           -      -           -      -           2       440         -       _           2        440
Public Uealth Staff             125        -      -                                                  2      250         -                   2        250
Hospital Nur..s                 123'       -      -           -      -           -       -           3      375         -        _          3        375
Dispenser                        80        1       80         2      160         2       160         2      160         2       160          9       720
Sub-total Medical                          -               1.464             2Z028               2,028               4,983              1,728                12,231
Co s,icy  ovcIonp..t Coolers                   210       4       640         4      840         4       840         4      S"           4     840         20      4,200
oehos Pablic Service Buildinas
T'o  Council & Tca   Hall                 630        -       -           -      -           -      -                   630         -       -           1        630
GOatoa Sevaka Offices                     210        1       210        1       210         1      210         1       210         1       210         5      1,050
Police Station                            210        -       -           -      -           1       210        -        -          -       -           1        210
Police Poat                                150       1       1i0         2      300         3       450        2       300         2       300        16      1,35p
Police Quartero: Sub-Inspector             125       -       -           -      -           -       -          1       125         -       -           I        125
NCO                      80        2       160        2       160         2      160         2       160        2        160        10        800
C ... tablesi/           80        3       240        3       240         3      240         3       240        3        240        15      1,200
Post & Telegraph Offine                    292       -       -           -      -           -       -           1      292         -        -          1        292
Slb-Post Officc                             91       1        91         2      182         2       182         3      273         2        182        10       910
Post B.Sa.                                 0.2       12        2        16        3        16         4       16          3       15          3        75        15
Rural Banks                                143       1       143         2      286         2       286         3      429         2       286        10      1,430
Market                                   1,280       -       -           -      -           -       -           1    1,280         -       -           .1     1,280
Fertilizer Seed 6 Peaticide Stores
Central store23                      1,500                            1    1,5300                                                                   1      1,500
unit Level store-/                      36       16       576        16      576        14       504       15       540        14       504        75      2,700
Sub-total Public Servine Buildings                         1,572               3,457              2,246              4,482                1,883              13,642
lotal without .ontstgeanian                               14,741             20,015              20,354             31,840               19,693             106,643
1/  Ircludes dwelling hou.e.                                                                                                                           5 7
T/ Tc sharing one quarter.
3/   125 ton stone, Rn 1,200/02.
ZI 30 ton store, Ro 1,2OO/n2.
H/ Hostel for three ourses.



ANNEX 1
Table 7
SRI LANKA
MAIIAWELI GANGA DEVEL0PMENT PROJECT III
Managemnt and Operational Tnfrastructure
(Rs 000)
Unit            1982             1983           1984          1985            1986              Total
Cost         No      Cost    No    Cost    No    Cost    No    Cost   No          Cost       No     Cost
MEA Staff Housing
Senior  ~    I/280                               9      2,520                             --                                     9      2,520
Middle Executivmen                       220         28      6,160   24      5,280   34   7,480    34   7,480   20    4,400    140    30,800
Diplowte staff4               4J         125         65      8,125   59      7,375   78   9,730    78   9,750   46    5,750    326    40,750
Clerical and Vehicle Drivers-             80        43       3 440   40      3 200   52   4 160    52   4,160   30    2400    217    17360
Subtotal, Housing                                    20,245          15,855        21,390         21,390         12,550             91,430
MEA Offices, Stores and Other Non-Residential Buildings
Central Workshop Store,5              4,000                  2,000           1,000         1,000                                            4,000
Block Offices                            300          2        600    2         600    2      600     2      600    2       600      10     3,000
Ulnit Officas and Stor-V  11             200         12      2,400   13      2,600   19   3,800    19   3,800   12    2,400          75    15,000
Tractor Workshops and Sheds2'            300                   150            -                -              -             -                  300
Forest Nursery Facilities                 LS                    60             _               -              -             -                   60
Subtotal Non-Residential                              5,210           4,350         5,400          4,400          3,000             22,360
Total Buildings, before contingencies                27,175          20 805        28,090         27,090         16 350            119,480
-1/ Agricultural Adviser, Weter Managment Specialist, Project Manager and Deputy Projeet Managers.
21 Block and Unit Managers, all graduate staff at MWA Headquarters.
31 Diploa holders, plant operators, workshop staff.
41 Includes all clerical grades but only 507 of tractor and vehicle drivers and gm up supervisors of the tractor hire unit.
5/ Developed in stages.
5/ Store is for World Food Programa supplies and transit store for paddy and other purchases by MA.
7J To supplement main workshop facilities.
59
58



ANNEX 1
Table 8
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Facilities to be Provided by
the EEC at the Agricultural Training Center and Farm
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    Total
Buildings
Staff Housing:
Principal                    1        -       -        -        -        1
Vice-Principal               1        -       -        -        -        1
Instructor                   3        3       -        -        -       6
Farm Manager                 1        -       -        -        -       1
Farm Assistant               1        1       1        -        -        3
Driver                       4        4       4        -        -      12
Sub-total                11       8        5        -       -       24
Other Buildings:
Offices                      1        -       -        -        -        1
Classrooms                   1        1       -        -        -       2
Dormitories & Mess Hall    1          1       -        -        -        2
Workshop                     1        -       -        _        _        1
Farm Buildings & Stores    -         1        -        -        -       1
Animal tie-ups               -        1       -        _        _        1
Other Buildings              -        -       2        -        -       2
Sub-total                4        4        2        -       _       10
59



ANNEX 1
Table 9
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Settlement Assistance and Monitoring Programs
Cost Estimates
-Settlement Assistance (18,500 Settlers)-/
Unit Price   Quantity   Local   Foreign   Total
-(Rs M)---------
1  Core House Grant             1,500         18,500    24.8       3.0       27.8
2  Implements (Field tools)       200         18,500      2.7      1.0        3.7
3  Seed                           300         18,500      5.5        0        5.5
TOTAL                      2,000         18,500    33.0        4.0       37.0
Monitoring Programs
Water Measurement:
Installation of Gauging Stations                       1.7         0        1.7
Equipment (Recorders, Meters, etc.)-2/                  (0)     (1.8)      (1.8)
Personnel Costs (Transportation, etc.)                  0.1        0        0.1
Sub-total                                            1.8         0        1.8
Socio-Economic and Agricultural Surveys                 11.2         0       11.2
Total                                               13.0         0       13.0
1/ New settlers may also receive free food rations for one year from
World Food Program.
2/ Included in Maintenance Equipment Cost Estimate (Annex 1, Table 15).
60



ANNEX 1
Table 10
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Estimated Flow of the Mahaweli Ganga at Minipe
(Aa Modified by Diversions at Polgolla
and Regulation at Kotmale and Victoria Reservoirs)
C:ATC:HMENT AREA: 3118 SQ.KM.
FLOIJ IN MILLION CUBIC METERS
'EAR  JAN  FEB  MAR  APR  MAY  JUN  JUL  AUG  SEP  OCT  NOV  DEC   TOT   MM
1950  222  199  175  140  167  207  209  178  234  275  179  172  2357  756
1951  721  359  172  186  174  975  336  111  195  395  769  380  477,5 1531
1952  682  289  171  217 1018  491  236  241  139  562  270  134  4510 1446
1953i  239  181  159  184  189  207  234  153  1 29  186  201  244  2306  740
1954  288  194  214  303  199  210  173  273  128  660  260  810  3712 1191
1955  692  447  262  330  517  766  338  222  285  331  239  171  4600M 1475
1956  164  158  143  154  19:3  298  220  143  134  239  746  43-:3  3025  970
I.957,  262  246  129  188  165  291  556  127  140  138  803 2090  5185 1663
1958  658  201  283  333  438  235  241  403  133  594  616  361  4496 1442
1959  207  162  116  175  170  562  536  183  161  526  530  390  3718 1192l-I
1960  457  832  233  2923  234  245  433  343  486  529  734  278  5102 1636
1961  254  190  152  163  241  232  212  321  168  302  462  504  3201 1027
1962  387  239  140  164  413  228  238. 158  372, 541  406  :374  3660 1174
1963  479  305  162  219  160  221  164  164  154  493:: 555  702  3771c:,: 1212
1964  59:3  417  288  167  194  223  173  169  183  263  505  322  350'2 ' 1123
1965  170  321  141  277  547  294  207  192  151  41:  476  571  3765 1208
1966 e 343  174  171  286  207  250  245  197  14 9  2e  496  357  :3161 10144
1J967r  286  259  194  144  207  223  234  164  143  221  4`2  666  321`3 1030
i968  269  142  166  152  236:-t.  208  274  37:33   4    5 13  450  35 3 2 1 133
1969  389  261  120  218  185  :304  195  150  17 3  542 &45;  498 338  1087
1 970  499  504  196  326  285  23c:37  246  422  185  477  554  170.3  4t::34 148E6
1971  572  174  176  294  320  :304  :384  557  730  550  274  8:28  516:3 1656
1972  :345  184  106  191  373  240  256  18:3  127  605  795  897  4:302 1380
1 I9 73  2 75  191  149  191   221  197  2 1 5  245  1 88  160  253  333  2618  840
1914  215  143  161  229  258  273  341  549  471  3.3c8 49  377  3604 1156
1975  :362  169  211  202  215  3    c38  282  540  447  472"  905  425  4568. 1465
1976  516  179  114  179  253  190  215  188  172  1.c 5 23, c3    1 2  2 E6 0 7  836
1977  159  152  121  149  218  161  179  119  124  2 7: 8 3   :376  23:36  749
HEAN  382  260  172  216  286  308  270  251  229;  :395  470  504  3744 1201
TDV  175  147   49   63  17'Z3  183  101         3 46  15   212  30 879  282
CA-.R. r  0.46 0.57 0 .   0'.- 0. 29 0. 62 0.59 0.:37 0.5:3 0.4   . 6: 4  0.45 0. 7:3  0.':2: 0.24
STD'V=STANDARD DEY I AT I ION                                         MDE-NEDECO 1 9 7 ,-
CVAR=C:OEFF I C I EtT OF VAR I AT I O (l E!:.'TDV. MEAN )
Note: Taken from NEDECO's Mahaweli Ganga Development Program Implementation Strategy
Study, Annex 0, Part B, Preliminary Water Balance Studies.
61



SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Irrigation Water Requirements for Flooded Rice
LHG Soils                         RBE Soils-
Maha            Yala               Maha             Yala
---      (mm)    ---               --------(mm)---------
Land Preparation (15 days)
Saturation                                                        200             100                400              200
Evaporation                                                        45              60                 45               60
Percolation                                                        30              30                 80               80
Sub-total                                                    275              190               525               340
Flooding for Cultivation                                              '100             100                100               100
Assuming 50/50 Broadcast (BC) and Transplanted  (TP):              BC      TP       BC       TP        BC      TP       BC       TP
Nursery (21 days - nursery factor 1:20)                              0      19        0      24          0      19         0     24
Crop Water Requirement (growing period - days)                    (120)   (105)   (105)   (90)        (120)  (105)    (105)   (90)
Evapotranspiration                                           505      455      642    565         505    455       642    565
Deep and lateral percolation (Darcy's Law)                   180      158      158    135         480    420       420    360
Sub-total                                               685      613     800    700         985    875    1,062    925
Total Field Water Requirement                                   1,085   1,032   1,120   1,044    1,610   1,519   1,502   1,389
Less Effective Rainfall                                            515     462      200      158       690      582      205     162
Less Reserve Moisture                                              100     100      100      100       100      100      100     100
Net Farm Irrigation Requirement                                    470     470      820      786       820      837   1,197   1,127
1/  RBE Soils used for double crop rice cultivation are underlain by impermeable barrier at less than 3 M depth.
(DX
H H
CD
0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Estimated Total Yearly Water Requirements for System C at Head of Transhasin Canal  (Mm3)
Jan.     Feb.     Mar.      Apr.     May      June     Jul.      Aug.      Sep.     Oct.    Nov.      Dec.      Total
1950           23.        3.      48.      119.      78.      89.       5.       3.        3.       68.     88.       17.       544.
1951            0.        2.      51.        99.     83.      89.       5.        3.       2.       68.     54.        1.       457.
1952            0'.      5.       52.        83.     83.      89.       5.       4.        1.       69.     84.       18.       493.
1953            3.        1.      51.        87.    119.      84.       3.       4.        3.       62.     87.        1.       505.
1954            6.       0.       44.        93.    108.      89.       5.       4.        4.       62.     91.        1.       340.
1955            0.        0.      47.        89.    108.      89.       5.        3.       2.       73.    102.       16.       534.
1956           15.        5.      51.      107.   }119.       64.       5.       4.        4.       64.     56.        1.       495
1957           12.       0.       54.      119.      82.      87.       5.       4.        3.       62.     53.        0.       481.
1958            3.        1.      44.        96.     96.      90.       5.        3.       3.       71.     77.        2.       491.
1959           17         9.      52.        99.     80.      76.       5.       4.        3.       59,     64.        1.       449.
1960            3.       0.       52.        73.     58.      89.       3.       4.        3.       64.     57.       35.       441.
1961            0.        0.      45.        70.     97.      85.       5.       4.        3.       63.     48.        0.       430.
1962           14.        2.      46.        85.     76.      89.       5.        1.       2.       67.     75.       10.       472.
1963            0.        0.      46.        97.    103.      89.       4.       4.        1.       65.     68.        0.       477.
1964            7.        0.      48.      113.      81       89.       3.       4.        3.       68.    107.       11.       534.
1965           31.        0.      51.        76.     68.      88.       5.       1.        4.       58.     57.        0.        449.
1966            9.        5.      43.      114.    109.       85.       5.        3.       2.       58.     62.       11.        501.
1967           28.       0.       48.      116.    109.       80.       5.       4.        3.       60.     49.        0.       502.
1968           16.       23.      41.       113.    115.      89.       5.        4.       3.       64.     89.       10.        572.
1969           15.        1.      54.        86.    108.      89.       4.        2.       2.       60.     93.        0.       514.
1970           14.        0.      51.        89.     86.      81.       5.        3.       2.       74.     86.        6.       497.
1971           10.        1.      49.        72.     85.      86.       5.       4.        3.       68.     71.        1.        455.
1972           23.      11.       51.        92.     93.      85.       5.       4.        1.       67.     62.        1.       495.
1973           47.       0.       52.      117.    101.       68.       2.       4.        2.       67.     72.        0.        532.
1974           90.        5.      52.        79.     70.      89.       5.       4.        3.       77.    121.        1.        596.
1975           23.        3.      49.      101.      71.      88.       1.        4.       2.       74.     90.       13.        519.
1976           23.      11.       52.        98.    108.      78.       5.       4.        4.       71.     71.        2.       527.
1977           62.      11.       49.      103.      79.      79.       4.        4.       2.       58.     58.        4.       513.
Ave.           18.        3.      49.        95.     92.       84.      5.        4.        3.      66.     75.        6.        493.
1E
CY,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
C'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t 



SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Estimated Annual Operation & Maintenance Costs 1/
Unit: Rs M
1981     1982      1983     1984      1985      1986     Total
Staff salaries and benefits                        1.00     2.87      4.76     7.33    10.03    11.73       37.72
Staff traveling & subsistence allowance           0.12      0.40      0.68     1.06      1.45      1.60      5.31
Vehicle operating costs                           0.35      0.85      1.39     2.00      2.62      3.05     10.26
Equipment operating costs                         0         0         0.50     1.50      2.50      3.00       7.50
Materials and supplies                            0         0         0.10     0.30      0.50      0.70       1.60
Total                                        1.47      4.12     7.43    12.19    17.10    20.08        62.39
Average project O&M costs (year 6) for total System C area (24,100 ha new land and 3,600 ha existing
irrigated land) are expected to be:
New Project area (rounded)           Rs 833/ha (Rs 337/ac)
Total Project area (rounded)         Rs 720/ha (Rs 290/ac)
1/  The tosts include the initial support and subsidy of the tractor-hire operation.  This is expected                    >
to end in about 1993, by which time private enterprise will supply farm power needs for the entire                    x
project area.  By then, O&M costs would be:
New Project area    =    Rs 800/ha (Rs 320/ac)
aT
>           ~~~Total Project area  =    Rs 690/ha (Rs 275/ac)



SRI LANKA                                             ANNEX 1
Table 14
MAHAWELI CANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III                                Page 1
Cost Estimate Summary-/
Estimated Cost                                      Foreign
Rs Million                                US$ Million _/               Exchange
Local       Foreign       Total           Local       Foreign       Total           X
1. Civil Works
Construction Camp (Incl. Water Supply)             27.0          18.0        45.0             1.5          1.0          2.5          40
Right Bank Transbasin Canal                      219.0         329.0       548.0             12.2         18.3        30.5           60
Works in Zones 3 to 6:
Main & Branch Canals                           120.0         180.0       300.0              6.7         10.0        16.7          60
Distributor  & Field Canals                     62.0          41.0       103.0              3.4          2.3         5.7          40
Main Drains                                       6.0           4.0        10.0             0.3          0.2         0.5          40
Secondary and Field Drains                      60.0          33.0        93.0              3.3          1.9         5.2          35
Land Clearing                                   34.0          79.0       113.0              1.9          4.4         6.3          70
On-Farm Development                             68.0          68.0       136.0              3.8          3.7         7.5          50
Roads (Market, Village Centers, Hamlets)        29.0          23.0        52.0              1.6          1.3         2.9          45
Sub-total                                  625.0         775.0    1,400.0             34.7         43.1         77.8          55
Physical Contingencies (15%)                       94.0        116.0        210.0             5.2          6.4        11.6          55
Engineering, Supervision and                     160.0            0.       160.0              8.9          0           8.9           0
Administration (10%)                                                       -            -
Sub-total Civil Works                      879.0         891.0    1,770.0             48.8          49.5        98.3          50
II. Social & Administration Infrastructure
Schools and Teachers' Quarters                    53.6          23.0        76.6              3.0          1.3         4.3          30
Medical and Public Health Buildings                 8.5           3.7       12.2              0.5          0.2         0.7          30
Community Facilities                               2.9            1.3        4.2              0.1          0.1         0.2           31
Other Public Service Buildings                     9.5           4.1         13.6             0.5          0.2         0.7           30
Management & Operational Offices & Stores         15.7           6.7        22.4              0.9          0.4         1.3           30
Management & Operational Quarters                 64.0          27.4        91.4              3.6          1.5         5.1           30
Sub-total                                  154.2          66.2       220.4             8.6           3.7       12.3           30
Physical Contingencies (10%)                      15.4           6.6         22.0             0.8          0.4         1.2          30
Engineering, Supervision and
Administration (8%)                             19.4           0          19.4              1.1          0           1.1           0
Sub-total Social & Admin. Infr.            189.0          72.8       261.8            10.5           4.1        14.6          28
Iml. Equipment and Vehicles
Construction/Maintenance Equipment                  2.7          40.5        43.2             0.15         2.25        2.40          94
Construction/Maintenance Vehicles                   0.9          27.9        2RA.             0.05         1.55        1.60          97
Management 6 Operations Vehicles                    0.9          22.5        23.4             0.05         1.25         1.30         96
Training Center Equipment & Vehicles                1.8           6.3         8.1             0.10         0.35         0.45         78
Tractor Hire Service Equipment & Vehicles           2.7          58.5        61.2             0.15         3.25         3.40         96
Social Infrastr. Equipment & Vehicles              0              3.6         3.6             0            0.20        0.20        100
Settlement Vehicles                                0              4.5         4.5             0            0.25        0.25        100.
Sub-total Vehicles & Equipment               9.0         163.8       172.8              0.5          9.1         9.6         .95
IV.  Settlement Assistance                              32.6           4.9        37.5              1.8          0.3         2.1          14
V.  Monitoring Program                                 13.0           0          13.0              0.7          0           0.7           0
VI.  Technical Assistance                                9.0          64.8        73.8             0.5           3.6         4.1          88
Project Sub-total                              1,131.6        1,197.3    2,328.9             62.8         66.6        129.4          51
VII.  O&M During Project Implementation                  54.6           7.8        62.4              3.0          0.5         3.5          14
VIII.  Expected Price Increases                          874.2         366.3    1,240.5              48.6         20.3        68.9          30
TOTAL                                    2,060.4       1,571.4    3,631.8             114.4         87.4       201.8          43
1/ Mid-1980 Price Level.
2/  Exchange rate US$1.00 - Rs 18.0.                                                                                         65



ANNEX 1
Table 14
SRI LANKA                          Page 2
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Civil Works Cost Estimate
Foreign
Local       Foreign        Total        Exchange
Construction Camps       ~~~----------- (Rs M) -------------          %
Construction Camps                              IM)
Quarters, stores, etc.              21.0          9.0         30.0            30
Fuel supply depots                   0.5          0.5          1.0            50
Water supply tanks for
construction camp                  5.5          8.5         14.0           61
Sub-total                    27.0         18.0         45.0           40
Right Bank Transbasin Canal        217.0        323.0        540.0            60
Gates                                2.0          6.o          8.0            75
Sub-total                  219.0        329.0        548.0            60
Works in Zones 3 to 6
Main Canal:
Earthwork                         15.0         17.0         32.0           53
Structures                        26.0         49.0         75.0           65
Branch Canals:
Earthwork                         27.0         30.0         57.0           53
Structures                        52.0         84.0        136.0           62
Main Drains                           6.0         4.0         10.0            40
Distributaries                      45.0         30.0         75.0            40
Field Canals                        17.0         11.0         28.0            39
Secondary and Field Drains          60.0         33.0         93.0            35
Land Clearing                       34.0         79.0        113.0            70
On-farm Development:
Machine development                7.0         62.0         69.0           90
Manual development                .55.0         6.0         61.0           10
Bund marking                       6.0          0            6.0            0
Roads:
Market                          -18.0          15.0         33.0           45
Town & Village centers             5.0          4.0          9.0           44
Hamlets                            6.0          4.0         10.0           40
Sub-total                   379.0        428.0        807.0           50
Sub-total all Civil Works          625.0        775.0      1,400.0            55
Physical Contingencies (15%)       94.0        116.0        210.0            55
Engineering, Supervision &
Administration (10%)             160.0          0          160.0            0
TOTAL                       879.0        891.0     1,770.0            50
66



ANNEX 1
Table 15
Page 1
-      SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
List of Equipment and Vehicles
c.i.f. Colombo
Unit
Item               Description                               Quantity        Price          Total
1/                            ----US$ '000----_
I. Construction/Maintenanice Equipment-
1   Mobile Crane, 10T with Clam Shell & O.P. Bucket              1         125.0          125.0
2   Tractor, Crawler, 90-105 hp                                  3          50.0          150.0
3   Tractor, Crawler, 200 hp with Blade &
Hydraulic Controls                                         2        150.0           300.0
4   Loader, Crawler, 2 c.y.                                      1          50.0           50.0
5   Loader, Wheeled, 2 c.y.                                      1          40.0           40.0
6   Tractor, Backhoe/Loader                                      2          45.0           90.0
7   Grader, Motor, 125-150 hp                                    3          60.0          180.0
8   Roller, Vibratory, 0.4 - 0.5T                                5           5.0           25.0
9   Air Compressor, 125 cfm                                      4          20.0           80.0
10  Air Compressor, 600 cfm                                      2          40.0           80.0
11  Pneumatic Drill, T-handle & Drill Steel                     10           3.5           35.0
12  Generator, Diesel, 10 KVA                                   25           3.0           75.0
13  Pump, Water, 4 in, 150 ft                                   10           1.2           12.0
14  Field Laboratory & Testing Equipment (Quality Control)                   L.S           50.0
15  Maintenance Workshop Equipment                                           L.S           75.0
16  Crusher, Rock, Mobile, 10-15 T/hr                            5          30.0          150.0
17  Water Measurement Equipment (Monitoring)                                 L.S          110.0
18  Radio Transceiver, SSB                                      15           4.0           60.0
19  Telephone System                                                         L.S          150.0
20  Office Equipment                                                         L.S           36.0
21  Boat, 5 meter, with motor                                    5           1.4            7.0
22  Grass cutting & Weed Clearing Equipment                                  L.S           10.0
23  Survey Equipment                                                         L.S           30.0
Sub-Total                                                    1,920.0
Spare Parts (25%)                                                                     480.0
Total for Group I                                                                   2,400.0
1/  Part of this equipment will be used for construction only and will revert to MDB.
Remainder will remain with the project for maintenance purposes.
67



ANNEX 1
Table 15
Page 2
c.i.f. Colombo
Unit
Item                    Description                      Quantity      Price          Total
------US$'000-
II. Vehicles for Construction/Maintenance
1   Truck, Tractor-trailer, 30T (Low Boy)                  1          65.0           65.0
2   Truck, 5T (Lorry)                                     10          20.0          200.0
3   Tractor-trailer (with 45 hp Farm Tractor
and 3.5 T Trailer)                                  35          16.0          560.0
4   Truck, Water/Fuel Bowser, 1,250 gal                   10          20.0           200.0
5   Field Car, 4x4                                        25           8.0           200.0
6   Truck, Service (Lub. & Maintenance)                    1          30.0            30.0
7   Field Car, Welding 4x4                                 1          25.0            25.0
Sub-Total                                          1,280.0
Spare Parts (25%)                                                               320.0
Total for Group II                                                            1,600.0
III. Vehicles for Management and Operations
1   Saloon Car                                             3           9.0            27.0
2   Field Car, 4x4                                        28           &.0          224.0
3   Truck, 5 T Oorry)                                     24          20.0          480.0
4   Truck, Suburban, 4x4 (Personnel Carrier)               4          11.5            46.0
5   Motorcycle                                           200           1.0          200.0
6   Bicycle                                              312           0.08           25.0
7   Platform weighing Scales                              88           0.5           44.0
Sub-total                                          1,046.0
Spare Parts  (25%)                                                              254.0
Total  for Group                                                              1,300.0
68



ANNEX 1
Table 15
Page 3
c.i.f. Colombo
Unit
Item                     Description                     Quantity      Ptice          T7otal1
      TTP~ 'oo ---
IV. Equipment and Vehicles for Training Center (250 ha)
1    4-Wheel Tractor, 60 hp, with Tillage Equipment         2          24.0           48.0
2    2-Wheel Tractor, 6-8 hp, with Tillage Equipment    6               L.S            9.0
3    Gates, Flumes and Measuring Device (Irrigation)                    L.S           20.0
4    Threshers (Axial Flow & Drum Type), etc.                           L.S            5.0
5    Office Equipment                                                   L.S           30.0
6    Training Aids                                                      L.S           30.0
7   Office, Dormitory & Classroom Furnishings                          L.S            50.0
8   Workshop Equipment                                                  L.S           40.0
9    Saloon Car                                             1           9.0            9.0
10   Field Car, 4x4                                         2           8.0           16.0
11  Truck, 5T                                               1          20.0           20.0
12  Bus, 30 Passenger                                       2          30.0           60.0
13  Motorcycle                                              3           1.0            3.0
14  Miscellaneous Farm Equipment                                        L.S           20.0
Sub-Total                                           360.0
Spare Parts (25%)                                                                90.0
Total for Group IV                                                             450.0
V. Equipment and Vehicles for Tractor Hire Service
1   4-Wheel Tractor, 40 hp with Tillage Equipment    150              16.0        2,400.0
2   Truck, Fuel Bowser, 1,250 gallon                       2          20.0           40.0
3   Field Car, 4x4                                         2           8.0           16.0
4   Motorcycle                                            30           1.0           30.0
5   Truck, Pickup, 3/4T, 4x4                               2           9.0           18.0
6   Thresher, Tractor-driven                              75           2.0          150.0
7   Maintenance Workshop for Tractor Service                           L.S           66.0
Sub-Total                                        2,720.0
Spare Parts (25%)                                                               680.0
Total for Group V                                                             3,400.0
69



ANNEX 1
Table 15
Page 4
c.i.f. Colombo
Unit
Item              Description                           Quantity         Price         Total
-----US$000 -
VI.  Social Infrastructure Equipment & Vehicles
1   Ambulances                                              2            20.0          40.0
2   Medical Equipment                                                     L.S          30.0
3   Laboratory Equipment (Schools)                                       L.S           30.0
4   Truck, Suburban, 9 Passenger                            2            11.5          23.0
5   Field Car, 4x4                                          4             8.0          32.0
6   Motorcycle                                              5             1.0           5.0
Sub-Total                                                160.0
Spare Parts (25%)                                                                 40.0
Total for Group VI                                                               200.0
VII. Settlement Vehicles
1   Truck, 5T (Lorry)                                       3            20.0          60.0
2   Truck, Water Bowser, 1,250 gallon                       5            20.0         100.0
3   Field Car, 4x4                                          2             8.0          16.0
4   Bus, 24 Passenger                                       1            24.0          24.0
Sub-Total                                                200.0
Spare Parts (25%)                                                                 50.0
Total for Group VII                                                              250.0



SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Summary of Equipment & Vehicle Requirements
Estimated Cost                     Procurement Schedule
_---(US$ 000) 
Local   Foreign   Total      1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
I.  Construction/Maintenance Equipment             150      2,250    2,400         0   1,400    600   200    100    100
II.  Construction/Maintenance Vehicles               50      1,550    1,600         0      800    350   100    100    250
III.  Management and Operations Vehicles              50      1,250    1,300         0      500    400   300    100        0
IV.} Training Center Equipment & Vehicles           100        350      450         0       50    200   200       0       0
V. Tractor Hire Service Equipment
and Vehicles                                 150      3,250    3,400         0        0    600 1,100  1,100    600
VI.  Social Infrastructure Equipment
and Vehicles                                   0        200      200         0        0    100    50      50       0
VII.  Settlement Vehicles                               0       250       250         0     100    150      0       0      0
TOTALS                                   500     9,100    9,600          0   2,850  2,400 1,950  1,450    950
F. H M
LAi
H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



ANNEX 1
Table 16
SRI LANKA
MAHAWaI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Schedule of Expenditures (US$M)
Total          ----------- - - ---- - - Fiscal Years --- - --------- - ---
Cost      80/8    81/82    82/83    83/84    84/85    85/86    86/87
Construction Camp                                 2.5       0        1.1        0.9       0.5        0         0         0
Right Bank Iransbasin Canal                      30.5       9.2    12.8         8.5        0         0         0         0
Irrigation Infrastructure &
On-Farm Development                            41.9       0        1.4        9.5      11.1      10.6        8.5       0.8
Roads (Market, Village Centers,
Hamlets)                                        2.9       0        0.2        0.6       0.6        0.6       0.6       0.3
Sub-total                                  77.8        9.2    15.5        19.5      12.2      11.2       9.1       1.1
Physical Contingencies                           11.6       1.4      2.3        2.9        1.8       1.7       1.3       0.2
Engineering, Admin. & Supervision                 8.9       1.1      1.8         2.2       1.4       1.3       1.0       0.1
Sub-total                                  98.3      11.7    19.6         24.6      15.4      14.2      11.4       1.4
Price Escalation                                 48.6       1.6      5.4       10.4        9.1      10.4      10.3       1.4
Sub-total                                 146.9      13.3    25.0         35.0      24.5      24.6      21.7       2.8
Social & Administration Infrastructure           12.3       0        1.9        3.1        3.6       2.9       0.8       0
Physical Contingencies                            1.2       0        0.2        0.3        0.3       0.3       0.1       0
Engineering, Admin. & Supervision                 1.1       0        0.2        0.3       0.3        0.2       0.1       0
Sub-total                                  14.6       0         2.3        3.7       4.2       3.4       1.0       0
Price Escalation                                  9.4       0        0.8        1.9        3.0       2.8       0.9       0
Sub-total                                  24.0       0        3.1         5.6       7.2       6.2       1.9       0
Equipment & Vehicles                              9.6       0        1.2        3.0        2.0       1.8       1.2       0.4
Settlement Assistance                             2.1       0        0          0.2       0.5        0.5       0.6       0.3
Monitoring Program                                0.7       0        0.1        0.1        0.1       0.1       0.2       0.1
Technical Assistance                              4.1       0        0.9        1.1       1.0        0.8       0.3       0
Sub-total                                  16.5        0       2.2         4.4       3.6       3.2       2.3       0.8
Price Escalation                                  7.7       0        0.4        1.4        1.6       1.9       1.7       0.7
Sub-total                                  24.2        0        2.6        5.8       5.2       5.1       4.0       1.5
O&M During Project Implementation                 3.5       0        0.1        0.3       0.6        0.8       1.1       0.6
Price Escalation                                  3.2       0        0          0.2        0.4       0.8       1.1       0.7
Sub-total                                   6.7        0        0.1        0.5       1.0       1.6       2.2       1.3
TOTAL                                     201.8      13.3    30.8         46.9      37.9      37.5      29.8       5.6
72



ANNEX 1
Table 17
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Proposed Allocation of the Credit
1/       ~~~% o-f
Category                        Amount Allocated-         Expenditures to
SDR M      US$M             be Financed
Civil Works                         Equiv.      Equiv.
Transbasin Canal                  34.19       42.0           100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
Construction Camp    1
Main Drains                      -23.04       28.3           90%
Land Clearing                     2
On-Farm Development
Equipment and Vehicles               1.55        1.9           100% of foreign
expenditures for
directly imported
items, 100% for
local expenditures
(ex-factory) for
locally manufac-
tured items and
90% for locally
procured items
Settlement Assistance                2.85        3.5           90%
Monitoring Program                   1.14        1.4           100%
Staff Costs for Engineering
and Supervision                    6.92        8.5           50%
Unallocated                          3.61        4.4
TOTAL                           73.30       90.0
73
1/ Including expected price increases.



ANNEX 1
Table 18
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ M Equivalent)
IDA Fiscal Year                                              Accumulated
and Semester                   Disbursements                 Disbursements
1982
1st                            11.5                          11.5
2nd                             9.0                          20.5
1983
1st                            11.0                          31.5
2nd                            12.5                          44.0
1984
1st                              6.5                         50.5
2nd                             5.0                          55.5
1985
1st                             5.0                          60.5
2nd                             5.0                          65.5
1986
ist                             5.0                          70.5
2nd                             5.0                          75.5
1987
1st                             5.0                          80.5
2nd                             5.0                          85.5
1988
Ist                             4.5                          90.0
74



Annex 1
Chart 1
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
SCHEMATIC FUTURE CROPPING PATTERN
80-
z
IIJ X 6//MAHA RICE/A
w
40 /-    4 0
20 -A E
0.
O    N    D    J    F    M    A    M    J    J    A    S    0
100  
80-
60 60
z
0
W                                           AARICE
(L 40-                                         0e
20  
0
0    N    D    i    F    M    A    M    4    4    A    S    0
World Bank -21970
75



SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Comparison of River Flow at Minipe with Project Irrigation Diversion Requirements
Legend:
-   Recorded flow Mahaweli Ganga at       500 ____   __ |___
Minipe.                                     \
Modified flow Mahaweli Ganga at                \                                                   (
Minipe (as modified by Polgolla                                                              1/
diversions and Kotmale and Vic-
Victoria Reservoirs).                  400                         _ _.  t                 / 
Estimated average irrigation diver-              .
sion requirements for System C (not                                  ,/              >.-J   |
including use of inflows and return
flows).
300/
Mm3                            //Reflects water
INI .diversions at
j /  .  Polgolla.
200
100                                       f                _  _
riX
J   F    I    A    M   J    J    A    S    0  rN    D
Month



SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Summary Implementation Schedule
Calendar Years
Estimated    1980        1981               1982               1983               1984                1985              1986
Base Cost                                                                                           - __
PROGRAM ITEM                            (US$ M)-1/   4th  1st 2nd  3rd 4th 1st 2nd 3rd 4th  1st 2nd 3rd  4th  1st 2nd 3rd  4th  1 st 2nd 3rd  4th  1st  2nd 3rd  4th
CIVIL WORKS
Construction Camp                                        2.5                      _         -   - _       - _       -   -    - _
Right Bank Trans basin Canal                           30.5         _  _
Main and Branch Canals                                 16.7                                           -   -   _   -   _    _   _   -    -   -   -   -    -   -   -
Distributor and Field Canals                             5.7 7                           _ _                                  -   -          -   -   -   -    -   -   -    -
Main Drains                                              0.5                                                                       _             -   -   - _         -   -    -   -    a
Primary and Secondary and Field Drains                   5.2                                                                       _   -    -   _    -   _   _   _    -    -               .
Land Clearing                                            6.3 3                                            -   _   -   -   .  .         -    -   _    -   -    -
On-farm Development                                      7. 5                                 _                                                                                          -
Roads                                                    2.9                           _   _   _                                             -   a   - _                  -    a   -    -
SOCIAL AND ADMINISTRATION INFRASTRUCTURE
Schools and Teachers Quarters                            4.3 3                                                      a                                                               -    -
Medical and Public Health Buildings                      0.7                                                        - _   _                  - _ _         a    a   - _  _ .
Other Public Service Buildings                           0.9-                                                                      a-             -        -        -     -    a -       -
Management and Operational Offices and Stores            1. 3                                    - _      - _ _          - _ _         -    - _
Management and Operational Ouarters                      5.1                                     -   _   -   _   _   -    -
Equipment and VehiclesZ'                                  9.6                           _   _                                            a            _
Settlement Assistance                                     2.1                                                             - _       -   - _        a   a    -    a         a _       a
Project Monitoring                                        0.7 7                                                      -   a    -   a   a    -   -   a    a    a   a . _               a
Technical Assistance                                      4.1            _                .                                         a   a    -   -   a    a           -
TOTAL PROJECT                                                         - _    _                                                      a   a    -                         a             a    a
VCredit Effectiveness
1/  Mid-1980 Price Level, not including physical or price contingencies or engineering,                                                                  World Bank - 21991
supervision and administration costs.
2/  For detailed equipment procurement see Annex 1, Chart 5.



SRI LANKA                                        PROCUREMENT SCIfEDUUL FOR EOUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                                                        MA_ AW ELI GANGA
.e_c,   8        DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  III
flbrafl*009   flU  ~ ~ ~    U  $                  -1__ _ _ __ _ _ _ _                                                                                                                               9  85                              5
000                                   N                                                                                                                         !
Mobile Crane, 1OT                                    9-Nl
with  clam  shell &               ICB       125
oran Se pe eI buc ket                                Ace.-           -  
Tractor, Crawler,                 ICB       150                          -
90-105 hop                                                      -                                                                                                                                                                                           iiTI..
Tractor, Crawler, 200                                A-l -            LI--1                                      1
hp with Blade &                   ICB       300         "e--
Loader, Tracked,                                     e,Aso --
2 c.y.  &Loader,                  ICB        90
wheeled, 2 c. y.
Tractor, Backhoe/                 ICR         0      tNNA----
Loader, wheeled
crader Motor,                     ICB       180               -                               --                                                                           -
125-150 hop
Roller, Vibratory,                ICE        25       ""-
0.4  - 0.5  T                                           I
Air Com.pressor,                  ICB        80                           * -  - -
125 cfm                                               cm
Air Comapressor, N                                                        ff                         T
600cfm                            ICB        8
P,,etumaMt  Drill,                                   *00
T-handle &  Drill Steel   TCB                35
*1N04,,oeeNFSEOCSTEEAT  le                                        I flAL--TNC SI eE- C.-IAT1OSAN - EIorANsI-ANL015SFA IF                                                         I
IOASp -  UAAL    o.Ee.e,s An 91,                                             Iea,AISLTNCol
o.sup0uL,SAteN9eV flA T.9990
I.A.ULcNtAc.-  0       AoUeTe.OY                                          Ft9950FlALISIN  979 00 0,5 AIlueA-Al u 10910  .IIT-AII
$-1NF49919FSAAIIATiFA FF3710 *10 eECoFflNeAteT, 9190  10 Cl-T0900T O- TCUA..F -A-T.IIU,
asACIT ATAC! -F RCIA..TOT,SI                                        g mAFSIJ9S



PROCUREMFNT SCHEDULE FOR EOUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                                        MAHAWELI GANGA
coe...     ---SRI LANKA                                                                                                                            A)EVEILYENEr PROJECT-III
. _   ...    ..__.__                        _  _          __   __                                _    _                        _ _       _       _                                    _                              _
<W                                     g   T:                                               g                           t T 0| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--DEVELO1 
Generator, Diesel,           ICB       75
10 EVA
___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _1                            ,                                                                                                                  - tj  -   7 ,- t - -   -      - t  -   -   - w  _- _ - 4- fi_i---tJl70
Pump, Water,                 ICB       12                         - 31v5I    18                 
4 in, 150 ft.
<4                                                                                        ;X0 :j   ! t' 0~~~~~~~~4 
Field Laboratory                                                    a  VA
Testing Equipment            TCR       50
(QaiyControl)
Maintenance W4orkshop        LOB       75                                    ~
Equipment
Crusher, Rock                TCB      150
Me  l,10-1T/hr                   -- 
Platform Weighing            ICE       44                                                                                                                                            IT.~a
scale-s
t Equipment                    ICEIB 10
Truck, Tractor-              ICB       65               -A55
jtrailer, 30T
Truclk 5T (Lorry)            ICE      760 ....---------
TrOuck, Pickup, 44s              ICE       lBAetUNI
A INfl,T,^XPRe,aART1N ,OuALROUtlC*rm ONOKCU.AInrS              ,AIU lATU 'nEpO.Ar,eNot SPCtflCATIONSAND ,,tYeWuLutNr,     ,rINIrIL 5Eiivrn,,s,                CS 11Jt NTtfl5AVl)NAt
TSoSrvRAu*Tac   A                                              2'fll 5  SFF' InCASONS ANDSID DCSISANoSSTD-A T0 ,or II v(rtC A ,1:I
S_TANSIT SCCNEtfl,SlTSMAR,VSRIS TO~0 DS 1Imfl*0L555J55 E,DF ,rEc,FcrIs ASJS5S)00SASSMETS                                     F!50 555 VSRe S*SlSttRkctrePTTv
C-wsa.,Qstw,tAIsSSer                                                                                                                                           SS5SuflTstS,,CT,rFn.                                               5 ISU  Z7TII OI  IOntn>
p-mAkSeSvAT tuAorSoSST APIEluLSOrATFD RSOIESAV5S 5  A                  C, 5=ANSOJCS Lv55ATo 555COU555AND eWS4                                                                                                                        nXDMN^IusT D  s :N i o  DI
osI-K-1Llr>eTA D T cT ND   ro$oDs7IAlEAArD    EfIMNAICSiT>
11-.A CLEA-1" 0  EO1  sIN                                           WADC5 FAT9 



PROCUREMFNT SCHDUULE FOR EQUIPMENT AND MATiE RIAS                                           MAH LI GANGA
cou-<       ~~SRI LAN4KA                                                            _                                                       A.ACP -- DEVELOJ'MENTpJROJECT II.
Ot~Sl7TiO~OP,,~  METNOD   US$             is82                                                                  ,83845
Truck, Water/Puet            ICB      340
EDowser,lt,250 gal.                                                                ---                                                       . --~.               -- ---
Truck, Service               TCB       30   AlRE T-.                                                                                                         Mi ---o-nF r<---              -
(Lub. & M4aintenance)                                                                        ---
Truck, Suburban, 4x4         ICE       69
(8rrnnel Carrier)
Field Car, 4x4               ICE      504 cnX'    --             I                    I       I
FAleld Car Welding           rCe       25
44e
Saloon Car                  ICB       36   tU,,TO-,       .~
Bus, 30 Passenger           ICE       60
Bus, 24 Passenger           TCB       24    Pb,-CT-         --          -                     -
Motorcycle                  ICE      238
Btcycle25                                    r-
ae o  LAAA T$ CA,A.I                                       -IASOTSL,TIAIN  AUT 01b OLUNST  AT   -TTAAJ -lt TAT-OI-CL-A I E                                     OM T.-VT,O,e
-DA me-a ol DOck-'.  m'-A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P TOTflLO                                                                                                                          d
,-OA CLI-AAATCEAlAMLATO*SAPCJTAT
00



SRI LANKA(                                       PROCUREMENT SCHELDULE FOR5 EOUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                                                 DATIAWLOI GTA ROECTIT
~                          05$                - _____-T.'o.82                                                                                            84                            ' 85                            ,861
SI.IANCICV    SENT      000
rractor-tral ter
(with 45 hp Farm                 ICII     560
tractor)
4-Ws'Feel Tractor, 60 bp,                        oCsSq--- -                                           .--
2-W4heel Tractor 6-8 hp                                             -        I                              2;AL                                                                                                                                     7j
with Tillage Equipment    ICB                9-
Gates, Flumes and                                                            1      -
Measuring Device                 LOB        20    sae        --       --
(irrigation)                                      -              
Threshers  (Axial  Flow           PS         5               -
&Drosm Type)
Office Equipment                 LCB        70   ... .s                                                   8      9
Training Aids                    LOB        30
Office, Dnrmsitory &                                                           6ASEsSISAL  -                A "
Glassroms   Furnishings          LOB       SD   es4 ss
Workshop Equipyment              LOB        40
for Traintng Center
Miscellaneous                    LOB3       20   ,.n,s            -  -    -       -
Farmi Equipmentecss   ---                                                                               
ACTUAL            1------T  1--   
IaeSS-I,CT-m ACelT.-                                                   CSOI>SEUCIAJT I.....
co     5TCEPSASI5T,CLLVCTO  0LMTC                                              NTCTPSUAIIO  CCCIIOSUcR, OIASSASCAOLCSA                                                              SIISUIS
555 SALUAOSC5IOSIU  A II~USII SETlE IAIIIOA SAl All)COCUSCISIO OU    ICINTEIIAOCLVSAIC UCCIA                    COCI 111111 ACATAI



MAHAWELI GANCA
SRI  L-ANKA                                          PAOCU,REMCNT SCHEDULE FOR EQUIPMENT AND MATERtIALS                                                              DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT  TIII
ftftfCftlflOhftTV 'It.on                                                                                         82                                   83 gE84.985                                                                                                   86D
N0          *NOCOftC    ~~~COST-
00 * ft V TVWT                00
Thr    shes______11___1____6I_II_J_NoI_I                                                                                                                                                                I_I I_I        I     7,h0<i21 
Trato-Diven                         ICE          150
Maintenance  Workshop               LCB           66   *tttlO
for Trac tor Service
Ambulances                          LCB           40   ." o =--=--    _=                                              =.                                                                                -. .~  ~-t 1    -=~       :  7_   -  -  --   - _   _-      
Medical Equipment                   LCB           30   ...AIOSAL    - -                                                                             9-I              I -
Laboratory  EquipmentAPAIL=-------
(Schools)                           LCD           30    -ftftD                      -                                   
Sprayer Miscellaneous               LCD           12    '      '            -
Equipment                                               ::fOlftID~ 
Radio  Transceiver  SSEB             C            60    fOto            -           --          -  -     -       -
Telephone  System                   ICB         200                                                                                                61j  - 
Eoast, 5 meter w*ith                LCB            7 0010          --                         .
motor
Cras  and.Weed
Cutting  Equipment                  LCB            0~- ..    
rIftOOAUPICATC  *0,0 ACT:OftlDAgr,Vdt                                                                                                                                                                   ETIJoI Oft POOCOftFl.iT
...ftYtV*LOA .ftCi ALfttl  A                                             iliANSigi ltEtIFCATIOSO         AT O5WftST ...  01 Oo-.tr:.T..L DEtI.fflrfr,Tft I'll,,Il tOO
9_TrA~ = 6.IfCtftESSASSCftIVFIATOIDA                                              3 tffCEtffC  OfCIIOgfAtfgOOUCO                                           ,FtftEIfO hit   ,* I-AL                                    tIi
C-OA CL*ftft,,cftO  ftfOJS~fT5 AMttftitf**Sluoob Iroo..aO 
_OM VfPftjftAULPAIV*t     W-1ilf                                                  or .81.tIO                                                                                                              Iolg
II WA tVft tAtUATrDOelhOT AM0 ft*tOftMEMtATW,,NS 0100IA                             gOACLlOA..   o          ... OwoT,ONo00fE.VItT
O0Ift*CLftAft*tCEO  fltOr ftEt*Iff                                                t000CO
C),



ml
PROCUREIMENT SCHEDULE FOR EDUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                                                                MAILAWELT C_ANGA
OATA    SRI  LANKA                                                                                                                                                      _HTC        DEV         MENTR RJECT IL~
d;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
nlEouALlrycAILo                           C-Oh                          VRXUEI^     oS1lruDO  Rrl  MN
LTTS,IflONO  ITE     CT      CHOIATT
^"D eVAt~~~ROUPT                       COS T     R       ls@ I ANS H Cr    1 *    HC'Arl PN   H@ OOUE                   I A  z o . ... INIR I POI  ERs -~                                  sPD .                                             .. arllllsDI
SuaIrvy  EqCiuD     EEI               ICr        30
P*SH3TETA DsCAHONT4 CTOIO                                                        PHOCTET.TL ICATIOh0                                                                                                  SIENSal  y  TIOTTCOHORSPN WHD EOCTHMMNOT -N o1A.. o bol 
A.dTt^rT*VPEPA,IJrTO,HPSO HL,HTN nCDUUEHDHTOCMWS TOTTO TD r                                  SENNTOO m,OHCTHSTOITOCHO                                       H ITIH U&IOCOA  Sr..                        ITH RNrOMMCTOTII
tl-NREHHJHLC$CCFO  EOUEDTIOHHOTC                                                  8 Ob.lHRTC'S
CO ~ ~ ~~~~~~AT
R~RCST0HHHRATORHPOAIPCAOHNOTAAT1NHT-HO-CCT-- T -----                                            00 05    -TOMCSOCN  TO -O    -  - -I'T,PC
R-IPATE*LA,OIRPHOHT,HCHA#OflT4TTH                                   COCCPHHS-I        HCMPOALHTW
H-WACLH*HPCROP  PPOWROO?HHSH CC ACNHH(



SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPPENT PROJECT III
Organization Structure at Project Level
MAHAWELI ECONOMIC AGENCY
Managing Director
Mnagr -- Finance & Adrmiistratien
Manager -     Community Services
Manager - Production, Credih & M,knti,rg
Mr/nLtgr- In-at.man  w8sns D-1eop-r/
Monitoring and
EvaluaBotn Unit                                                                                                                          _                      _         Urigai- & P.
C..,di-1.1 ~          Proec  CorI                              P.i.tC.or.o
SV.ttm B                        Pe,-..l A"sim.at  (11                      Oth.r Projects
SYSTEM C
SYSTEMA B                         Projecl M-nager    111                 OTHER PROJECTS
Project Manager                     Secretary           (1)                   Project Manager
Cl-erk             IlI 
Dniee              t21
Deputy PresnDt Manager: Dripsty Prooect Menaggar Deputy Project Manager;                                                                                               Depty        cM      ger;                  Depug PitM                               Dyr        rlc  Manager
Agricetture                                           Opetatino and Mainten-a                                      Credit, Marketieg & Cnnpernlves1 community Services                                       Br-iness Development                   Finn   & Ad.mnitration
Sanior Subject Matter Specialist    ill   St, Egin-eer Itrig. A Weer Management   (I)       Me-ntecance Oflfrm    I1)               Marketing Ofihcer       Ill         Community Development Offtier (2Q                 Secretarv           11)           Management Accvv.rtarrt          (1)
Sabject Masser Specialit          (5)   Sr. IrrIgaion Engineer                      1t)     Works Sup-rnlsot        (SI             Coopeantine Olficer    11           Land Otlicer                       13             Clerk              1t1            Administrati-e Otticer           Ill
Secretary                        j11    (crigelon Engil- er                         t2)     Seeler Mechanic         (31             Credit Eualutar        11)          Secratery                         (11             Orlr               1t)           Accarmtact                       13)
Clerk                             121    Cferk-St-rekeaper                          11      Mectranir               IS)             Senentrvy              11)          Cerk                              t21                                               Book keeper                      141
Driver                            j21    Ornoyhkman                                12)      Equipment Opetrto   120)                Clerk                  (4)          Sureyeor                          121                                               Clerk/Typist                     141
Driver                 12)         Driver                             11j                                               Dricer                          171
SecmetaryjChlel Clerk   (2)
Cterk                   (4)
Vehicle Divers          14)
T IDM     13               F                                            I           I _   _ _                                             I 
I  I iL-   .   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WIdI.  I3
l  opratirsMaa9       Block  Maae          Block Manager         Stc    aae             la   aae              lc   aae             lc  Mnge            SekMngr               PakMngr               ere    aagr           PrrkMni.              BekMngr               PokMrae
Note  tee Anen 1, Chart 21B30 OIc Orgmi2atinn Strantore at the Block and lni Lever                                                                                                                                                                                             W.,rld qank   71Rll
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5



Annex 1
Chart 6
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Organization Structure at Block and Unit Level
Block Manager
Water Management Supervisor         (1)
Cooperative and Marketing Assist.   (tI
Agricultural Officer                (1)
Accounts Clerk                      (1)
Clerk                               (21
Driver                              (10
Unit Manager
Agric. Devt. Agent (KVS)    (1)
Water Management Assistant  (1)
Clerk                        (1)
N.B. There would be 12 Block Managers (Fig. 1).
Each Block Manager supervises 8 Unit Managers.                                                                         World Bank - 21830
85



SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Schedule and Cost of Staff and Farmer Training
(Girandurt Kotte Training Institute)
No. of
Days In         Cost of
No. of           Institute      Tr.iningil
Trainees         ( Rs. 1/-O      (IRs 000)
F General Staff Meetings                              ...........-..                  500               500             -
Commrunity
Development   CommunitV                                                      ...... .... * ,.,.   .. .......  5.,400  5,400         54
L Services
Sub-total                                                                        5,900              5,900            54
Farmers                    ....... .........    * -               * - ..   2,100                   2,100             21
Contact Farmers                                 .                         ....    300               1,200            12
Water          Non-irrigation
Management      Staff Training                         -                                          216               864              -
Junior Staff
Training                                                                         108              1,080
Senior Staff
Refresher Course                                                                  20                100             -
Sub-total                                                                        2,744              5,344            33
Other Farmers                         ....* -... ........ ...   4,500                               4,500            45
General
Agriculture    Central Farmers                                                                    300              1,200            12
Field Staff                                                                        108              1,080             -
Sub--total                                                                      14,908             6,780             57
Total                                                                           13,652            18,024            144
J F M A M J J A S O N 0
00
Legend: Residential course
day visits      .............                                                                                                                       rt
1/ Excluding catering and accommodation                                                                              World Bank - 21973



ANNEX 2
Page 1
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Terms of Reference for Consulting Services
I. Consulting Services for Project Implementation Planning and
Scheduling, Contract Administration, and Construction Supervision
A. Duty Station
Project Manager's office in Zone 2 of System C, Mahaweli
Ganga Development Project, Sri Lanka.
B. Date Required
Mid 1981.
C. Duration
Two to three years. The duration for each technical discipline
would be as shown in para 3.39.
D. Services Required
1. Tender Review & Evaluation. Review tender documents for
both international and local contract bidding, assist in
evaluating tenders, and recommend to MDB award of contract
to lowest responsive, competent firm or bidder.
2. Contract Administration. Review activities of contractor
work forces in the field and provide direction and inspec-
tion necessary to obtain works of good quality and to ensure
that the contractors provide agreed services and adhere to
the provisions of the contract specifications. Provide
guidance in resolving disputes and in limiting conditions
or circumstances that might result in claims against MDB
for additional work or rumuneration.
3. Project Planning, Scheduling and Implementation. Assist
MDB in planning, coordinating and scheduling all work acti-
vities, including tender actions, contract work, work per-
formed by settlers, and work undertaken by MDB and other
Government Agencies. Prepare critical work program charts
or schedules to assist MDB in determining critical work
actions necessary to implement work within agreed time frame.
Make continuous review of contractors' activities and recom-
mend changes in program as needed.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.  Records.  Provide assistance to MDB in keeping records of
contractors' monthly work progress for payment purposes.
(Monitor progress in all work areas).
5. Inspection and Testing. Further to para 2, provide assis-
tance and guidance to MDB in checking quality and accept-
ability of works in progress. This may involve making
soil and concrete tests on a continuing basis while the
earthwork, structures, and canal lining works are underway.
6. Inspections. Assist MDB in final inspections to determine
acceptability of completed irrigation system works.
7. On-Farm Development. Provide guidance to MDB's on-farm
development staff, small contractors and settler groups
in the location and construction of farm ditches and
drains and soil conservation bunds. Determine most appro-
priate farm layouts, including grading, leveling and paddy
bunding requirements for a high level of water use efficiency.
II. Agricultural Advisor
A. Duty Station
Giranduru Kotte Training Center, Giranduru Kotte, Sri Lanka.
B. Date Required
Mid to late 1982.
C. Duration
Two years.
D. Duties
The Agricultural Advisor would assist the Deputy Project
Manager (Agriculture) in all agricultural aspects of the pro-
ject. These would include, but not be confined to, organiza-
tion and operation of the agricultural extension service, crop
varietal selections for recommendation to area farmers, review
and guidance in crop cultivation practices, adaptive research
program at the Center's Farm, and monitoring and supervision
progress of perennial crop cultivation. Since the DPM (Agricul-
ture) would also be concerned with establishing and maintaining
project plantations and the management of common grazing lands,
the Agricultural Advisor must be qualified to provide support
in these activities. The Agricultural Advisor also would have
to be familiar with the Training and Visit (T&V) system of
agricultural extension to ensure uniformity of extension
approach with the ongoing nationwide program, and would maintain
liaison with the Deputy Director (Extension) at the Peradeniya
headquarters of the Department of Agriculture to facilitate this
uniformity.
88



ANNEX 2
Page 3
III. Water Management Specialist
A. Duty Station
Giranduru Kotte Training Center, Giranduru Kotte, Sri Lanka
B. Date Required
January 1, 1983.
C. Duration
Three years.
D. Duties
The Water Management Specialist would provide assistance to
-the Deputy Project Manager (Operation and Maintenance) and
the Irrigation and Water Management staff in developing a
sound and efficient water management program in System C.
He would work directly with the staff of the Center in develop-
ing proposed training programs for technical staff and farmers
to develop effective water management knowledge and skills.
He would also provide assistance in developing proposed model
irrigation systems to be constructed on the 250 ha farm at the
Center. In the course of developing a sound overall program,
the following factors should be considered:
1. Needed education and training of farmers, and coopera-
tive organization of turnout groups;
2. Water use discipline and penalties for infraction;
3. Design of an effective distribution system to ensure
equitable delivery;
4. Procedures to make and enforce water allocations and
organize maintenance work of delivery systems.
89



ANNEX 3
SRI LANKA                                  Table i
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Paddy Area and Production: Rice Availability, Procurement, and Distribution, 1970-80
1970    1971    1972       1973      1974      1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980i/
Cultivated Area ('000 ha)
Extent Asweddumized2l                    570      574     586       582       606       621      630     643      659    653        683
of which: Major Irrigation Schemes   (179)   (181)   (184)    (188)    (196)    (203)   (196)   (208)   (217)  (243)    (243)
Minor Irrigation Schemes   (162)   (163)   (166)    (165)    (168)    (173)   (177)   (181)   (185)  (171)    (177)
Gross Acreage Sown                       759      726     726       725       825       696      724     828      875    839        845
Net Acreage Harvested                    611      590     543       571       677       508      540     665      723    697        728
Fertilizer Issued ('000 tons)             88       97      89       127        96        98       72     128      128    120        187
Paddy Production and Yields
Paddy Production ('000 tons)           1,615   1,396   1,312    1,312    1,600    1,154   1,252   1,678   1,890  1,917    2,133
Average Yield (kg per ha harvest)   2,644   2,366   2,412    2,299    2,351    2,268   2,314   2,521   2,613  2,750    2,927
Rice Availability ('000 tons)
Rice Production_3/                     1,098      949     892       892    1,088        784      851   1,141   1,285  1,304    1,485
Net Domestic Supply4'                    966      835     785       785       957       691      749   1,004 - 1,131  1,148    1,307
Opening Stock of FC_/                   n.a.      259     180        74        73        63       98      61      173    116        114
Opening Stock of pMB6/                  n.a.      n.a.    n.a.      n.a.       12        49       17       15     104    128         65
Rice Imports7/                           534      339     266       344       332       457      419     526      160    212        190
Total Consumption/                     1,228   1,245   1,150    1,109    1,254    1,134   1,197   1,316   1,320  1,420    1,524
Procurement and Distribution
Paddy Procured by PMB ('000 tons)9/   379         473     383       332       303       169      188     358      469    378        146
Rice Distributed by FC ('000 tons)    650         893     805       696       567       629      634     722      671    447        309
Memorandum Items (as a percentage)
Imports/Rice Consumption                  43.5    27.2    23.1       31.0      26.5      40.3    35.0    40.0    12.1   14.9         12.5
Imports/Rice Distribution by FC           82.2    38.0    33.0       49.4      58.6      72.7    66.0    72.9    23.8   47.4         61.5
Procurement/Production                    34.5    49.8    42.9       37.2      27.8      21.5    22.1    31.4    36.7   29.0         10.1
FC Distribution/Rice Consumption          52.9    71.7    70.0       62.8      45.2      55.5    53.0    54.9    50.8   31.5         20.3
Estimate.
2 Levelled and bunded land suitable for paddy cultivation.
3/ Based on conversion factor: 70.49 bushels = 1 metric ton.
4/ Equals rice production less seed and wastage, estimated at 12% of total production.
-V  FC - Food Commissioner.
PMB - Paddy Marketing Board.
7/ Total rice imports not adjusted for 2.5% slackage loss.
Apparent consumption, estimated as net domestic rice supply plus imports, adjusted for slack, plus change in the
Food Commissioner and Paddy Marketing Board stocks. Change in stocks of private traders is ignored.
9/ Expressed as rice.
Sources: Food Commissioner and Central Bank of Ceylon.
90



iAHAWELI G04P0 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 1II
F.m ,oce  P4t0mal PIce  isuec
39n tonrmea
rEAP        1Q39    1981    1q82    18793    1984    1785    IQ86    1987    1988    1989    1990    191    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
REQUIREMENTS
I----- 1/ 2 /3/
f NSUMPTUI -/-/-        1459,s  1492.8  1536.9    7?U  16185.  ls6U,_  10700.   1740.  1784.1  1826.'  1870.1  1909.1  1947.8  1989,4  2028.7  2070,7  2113.7  2157,4  2202.0  2245.4  2291.7  2339.0
STOtKS-4/         5/    58,4    59,9    ol.5    o3.1   .o4,7    66.4    68.e'   69.6          1.4   '3.1    24.8    76,4    7Y 49,5    .1,1    82.8    84.5                  86.3     88.1    89.8    91.7    93.6
UASTTAE'SEE[.'SLACr      175,2   179.'  184.4   189,2   194 2   Q99,2   704,0   208,9   214.1   219.2   224.4   729.1   233.6   238.5   243.4   248.5   253.6   258.9   264.2   269,4   275.0   280.7
TOTAL               193,2  1232.4  1782.R  1827.3  1877.0  1925,8  1Q72.0  2019.2  2069,6  211Q U  2169.3  2214.6  2258.5  2307,4  2353.2  2402.0  2451,8  2502.6  2554.3  2604.6  2658.4  2713.3
L04 PROD CASE
00  PRODUCTIO    //  13320  t37'4  1424.3  1A02,5  1533    19640  1610.3  16SS.   1704.0  1755.1  1789.2  1850 0  1?12.9  1978.0  2045.2  2114.8  2186.'  2261.0  2337,9  2417.4  2499.6  2584.5
006303UF'PL' 8/         13880.)  1435.8  1484.2  1544.0  1596-'  1629.5  1676,7  1'23.7  1773.6  1826.5  1862.3  1924.8  19893  2055 9  2124.7  2195,9  2269.5  2345.5  2424.2  2505.5  2589.4  2676.2
-3==:== ======= =Z====== ======= ======= ======= ======= ======= Z======= ======= ======= ======= ====-== ======= ======= ======= e======= ======= ======= ======= ======= =======
IMP89S,-,            30 ,52  -301.o  -290,6  -285.3 -2802  3  -296.3  -295,3  -295.5  -90.0  -2O2.5  -307,0  -89.8  -67.2  -25191    -228.5  -?06,1  -182.3  -157,1  -130.1   -99.1   -69.0   -37.1
H81H PROT, CASE
5011 1'PODUCIt N TF 7/9/  1332.2  137'24  1420.0  1469,   1569.1  1658.6  1753,2  1809,1  0033,2  1857.4  1878.' 1938,8  2000.0  2064.8  2130,9  2199,1  2269.5  2342.1  2417.1  2494,4  2574.2  2656.6
0iM SU0PL'_             1388.0  143508  1479.  1531.2  1n32.2  1723.3  1820.1  1B8,.1  190208  1028,8  1951.8  2013.6  207',2  2142,7  2210.4  2280,2  2352.3  2426.6  2503.4  2582.5  2664.0  2748.3
INPPOF'TSi- ?C;EtP9PQTS  -305.2  -301.c  -302, 9  -299.1  -244 8  -702,5  -151 9  -142.1  -166.8  -190.?  -217,5  -2.01.   -181.3  -164.'  -142.8  -121.8   -99,5   -76,0   -909   -22.1         5.6    35.0
Note: The following basic differences can be observed between GOSL Departmsent of Census and Statistics projections of rice
consumption  10 2001 and those speci3.ied in the table.
a. Population growth, 1981-2001-GOSI,   : 1.6% p.a.
-Mission: 1.730% p.a. (see 1/).
b. Per capita consumption levels - COSL estimate assumes constant 98.0 kg per capita over 20-year period while mission
estimate attempts to incorporate impicta of recent wheat flour price increase (see ,/) and income growth (see 3/)
on rice consumption.  Resulting mission estimate of per capita consumption in 2001, 110.6 kg p.a.
-  Population growth rates assuoed: 1979-85, 2.0% p.a.; 1985-90, 1.8% p.a.; 1960-2001, 1.6% r.a.
2  Base per capita con.sumptIonl level of 94.9 kg p.a. re-resenting basic 1979 COSL pl.o.nlog estimate  (73% of 130 kg (total grain
consnr.ptioo)).   Flour consumption eutir-ate of 35.3 kg reduced to 29 kg to reflect substitution of rice for wheat with recent 58%
pricr    o acr,lse fur wheat flour (Re 1.50 to 2.37 per lb).  SLxty percent of difference  (7.1 kg x .60 - 4.3 kg) asiun.ctd made up
through increased   rice connamption.  1980 base per capita consumption level, therefore, set at 99.2 kg p.a.
3! Income ia.ctscitJ.s assumed; 1980-90, 0.2%; 1990-2001, 0.15%. Income assumed to increase at 3.0% p.a., 1980-2001.
4/ 4% of consurption.
12% of consumptie,.
1979-90, World B2nk projections; 1990-2001, mission projections. 1979-90 average growth rate of 3.4% p.a.; 1990-2001 average growb
growth rate of 3.4% p.a.
P- 3'addy to rite rendement of 68%.
Domestic production in year t and stocks from year t-1,
-/ 1979-90, World Benk projections; 1990-2001, mission projections. 1979-90 average growth rate of 3.9% p.a.; 1990-2001 average                                                                                 t
growth rate of 3.2Z p.a.



ANNEX 3
Table 3
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Stwmary of System C Cropped Area, Yields and Productionl/
Present                    Without Project                 With Project
Cropped                        Cropped                       Cropped
Newly Irrigated Area                       Area    Yield  Production   Area   Yield  Production  Area   Yield  Production
Newly Irrigated Area                  (ha)    (tons/ha)  (tons)    (ha) (tons/ha)    (tons)   (ha) (tons/ha)   (tons)
Rainfed Crops
Chena p.a.(Shifting)                   3,000        -         n.a.        -        -          -         -      -          -
Cowpeas/Other crops (Stable)            n.a.        -         n.a.    23,100    0.80   18,480                  -
Paddy                                    _2/        _          _        6,100    2.00   12,200         -       -          -
Irrigated Crops
Paddy                                    -          -          -          -         -        -     42,1201'   4.7Ii/  197,960
Upland Paddy                             -          -          -          -         -        -      1,500      4.00       6,000
Subtotal                                                                                43,620               203,960
Maize                                    -          -          -          -         -        -         400     5.00       2,000
Cowpeas                                  -          -          -          -         -       -         400      1.25         500
Groundnut                                -          -          -          -         -       -         400      2.40         960
Coffee                                   -          -          -          -         -       -         330      1.00         330
Pepper                                   -          -          -          -         -        -         330     1.12         375
Cocoa                                    -          -          -          -         -       -         330      1.00         330
Currently Irrigated Area (Zones 1-2)
lMajor Tanks                             2,730       3.5      9,555       2,730    4.70   12,830    3,275        4.70       15,400
Paddy
Minor Tanks
Paddy                                  2,845       2.5      7.110       2,845    3.00    8,530          - 3/   -           -
Subtotal                    5,575               16,665       5,575            21,360       =7                 15,400
Total Cropped Area          8,575                -          31,105                      49,005
Net Cultivated Area         7,190                           29,720                      27,720
Cropping Intensity (Unirrigated Are5/ 100 l                                 114
Cropping Intensity (Irrigated Area)-    133                                 133                          177
1/
= Based on Zones 1-6.
2/ About 570 ha of rainfed paddv (Zones 2-6) included in minor tank cate2orv.
3/ With the project, minor tanks would cease to exist for irrigation purposes and land formerly served from these would
be incorporated into the general irrigation system area.
4/ Represents the following weighted average:
(a) Transplanted, better soils         (40%)    5.00
(b) Broadcast, better soils            (40%)    4.50
(c) Transplanted, lighter soils        (10%)    4.75
(d) Broadcast, lighter soils           (10%)    4.25
5/ in percent.                                          4.70
92



ANNEX 4
Table 1
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Prices Used in Financial and Economic Analyses
(in Constant mid-1980 Rs)
Financial Prices              Economic Prices1/
1980       1990               1980         1990
Agricultural Outputs (Rs/ton)
Paddy                                       2,396      4,524               3,7212'-   4,7932/
4,244 3"
Maize                                       1,358      1,554               1,586       2,853
Groundnut4/                                 3,285      3,885               5,069       7,278
Chillies (dried)                           19,845    19,845              17,861-/    17,8615/
Red Onions                                  4,520      4,520              4,06L5/      4,06F5I
Cowpea                                      4,741      4,741              4,2675'      4,2675/
Coffee (Robusta)                           30,710    28,938              39,619       38,315
Cocoa                                      38,917    20,182              32,081       21,100
Pepper                                     22,062    22,062              27,691        27,691
Cashew (Seeds)                              5,607      8,098             12,432       17,943
Fuelwood                                        75       100                b296/         8436/
Agricultural Inputs
Pertilizer (Rs/ton)
Urea                                       1,005      7,170              5,767         7,182
TSP                                        1,360      6,180              5,026        6,206
BP                                         1,090      3,909              3,849         3,934
Labor (Rs/manday)
Slack Period                                  14.0        17.0              10.7          13.9
Peak Period                                    19.0       23.0              17.22/        20.8_/
Farm Power (Rs/hr)
Two Wheel Tractor8/                            26.0       28.0              32.5          38.9
Four Wheel Tractor-/                           77.7       85.1              98.4         113.3
Animal Pair (Rs/day)8/                         21.0       23.0               18.9         20.7
Other
Transport (Rs/km)                               1.00       1.32               1.52         1.70
Diesel (Rs/gal)                         --   13.5         18.0              29.1          39.0
Kerosene (Rs/gal)                              13.5       18.0               29.1         39.0
Economic prices for internationally traded commodities based on EPDCE, "Commodity
2/ Price Forecasts-Updating," November 12, 1980.
- Import-based price
Export-based price.
1  In shell.
1 Local price converted into border rupees at estimated standard conversion factor
(SCF) of 0.90.
Vi Valued in kerosene equivalent:12 gallons of kerosene equivalent to one cubic meter of
fuelwood (heat generating capacity).
Financial wage converted to border Rs at the SCF.
Includes driver.   Remuneration for approximately four hours of actual work on average.
9/ In conformity with Annex 3, Table 2 projections, for economic analysis, Sri Lanka
assumed to become net rice exporter in 2001-2005 period.                                        93



A:.;EX 4
Table 2
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Crop Input Requirementsl/
(per ha)
Manual               Animal
Seed    Fertilizer    Pesticides    Labor    Tractor2/ Power   'iscellaneous
(Kg)        (Kg)            (Rs)       (mandays)   (hrs)    (pair day)3/   (Rs)
PADDY - Rainfed
Present                                 110          200             200             75       26        (12)4/         154
Without Project                         110          250             200             80       28        (14)4/         210
With Project                             -            -               -               -        -         -              -
PADDY - Irrigated
Broadcast:
Present                                 100          150             200             80       15         '6)4          306
Without Project                         100          450             400            100       20         (8)7          406
With Project                            100          450             400            100       20         (8)4/         406
Transplanted:
Present                                  35          175             200             90       15         (6)-/         325
Without ProjecC                          25          450             400           109        20         (8)4/         434
With Prosject                             25         450             400            109       20         (8)4/         434
MAIZE
Present                                   -           -               -              -          
Without Project                                 -             -              -            -         -                   -
With Project                             25          450             100            100       25         -             469
GROUN'DNUTS
Present
Without Project                                 -             -              -            -         -                   -
With Project                             90          310             200            123       25         -             210
COWPEAS
Present                                  25           -               80            -         20        (1o)-l          56
Without Project                          25          100             160            65        20        (10)4i          56
Uith Project                             25          190             160             73       25         -              84
PERENNIAJ.S6-/
Present                                  -            -               -             -          -         --
Without Project                          -            -               -             -          -         -
With Project                             -         1,000             250           113         -         -              90
- For economic and financial analyses, 10% physical contingency added to all costs.
21 Assumes two-wheel tractor.
3/ Includes driver.
4/ Alternative to tractor input.
5-  Assumes full irrigation.
6/ Simple average cocoa, coffee, and pepper at full development.
94



ANNEX 4
Table 3
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
New Settler Farm Budget (Paddy - Paddy Rotation)1'2/
Mechanized & Transplanted        Non-Mechanized & Broadcast
Case With Project               Case With Proiect
Without                          Present V aue                      Present Value
Project     Full Development]1       Bad         11 Pl  Development!    4a1i ue
INFLOW                                         --------------------------------- Rs ------------ --- -------------
-Farm Production:
Paddy Sales                                                    36,644        249,483             31,903           216,091
On-Farm Paddy Consumption5/                                     4,072         31,937              4,741            37,184
Homestead Plot Production6/                                       325          2,246                325              2,246
Off-Farm Income                                                     725          5,686                 725             5,686
Total              5,O737/16/        41,766        289,352              37,694           261,207
OUTFLOW
Operating Costs81                                                 9,269         65,473              8,870             62,655
Crop Insurance!9                                                    356          2,792                 356             2,792
Water Chargel0/                                                     500          3,581                 500             3,581
Land Paymentl7/                                                   1,118          3,764              1,118             3,764
Total                                 11,243         75,610             10,844             72,792
NET BENEFIT BEFORE FINANCING                     5,073             30,523        213,742             26,850            118,415
FINANCING
Loan Receipt (+41'                                                5,160         40,471               5,538            43,435
Debt Service (-)12/                                               5,470         42,902               5,870           46,039
NET BENEFIT AFTER FINANCING                      5,073             30,213        211,311              26,518          185,811
Incremental                           25,140        171,523               21,445          146,023
CASH POSITION
Net Benefit After Financing                    5,073             30,213        211,311              26,518          185,811
Less: On-Farm Consumption                        -                4,170         32,706               4,170            32,706
Cash Surplus Total            5,073             26,043        178,605              22,348          153,105
Incremental                           20,970        138,817              17.275           113,317
PROJECT RENT!-!
Net Benefit After Financing but Before
Land and Water Chargesek'                                     31,106        212,970              27,411          187,470
Cost of Family Labor_/                                            6,637         46,882               6,561
Totas  Project Rent                             24,469        166,088              20,850          141,125
Less: Water Charg-'0                                                500          3,581                 500            3,581
Land Payment-7'                                            1,118          3,764                1,118            3,764
Balance                               22,851        158,743              19,232          133,780
1/
1 ha irrigated paddyland plot with 0.2 houseplot.
1' At full development; yields: 5.0 tons/ha (mechanized land preparation & transplanted paddy) and 4.5 tons/ha
(non-mechanized land preparation and broadcast paddy).
3/ Year 5 of production.
4/ Present value over 25-year period at 12% P.a.. the lone-term financial- onnortunitv cost of caDital available to
settler who wishes to make long-term (10 years) fixed deposit in commercial bank.
Based on 5.8 persons/family 8 100 kg rice/capita/year.
Based on Hlunting Preliminary Feasibility Study and Mahaweli Development Board, "The Report of a Socioeconomic
Survey: A Study of the Socioeconomic Conditions of the People and Area to be Submerged by the Kotmale Reservoir,"
1979 (Subsidiary Crops).
7/ base income: Rs 3,000 p.a. inflated by projected real increase in wages, 1980-90, of 21%, equivalent to Rs 39,788 on
8' PV basis for 25-year discounting period; rate of discount: 12% o.a.
-' Assumes 4% of labor requirements would be hired-in; assumes 45 manday equivalent of labor available each month
from family members.
9/ As per July 1979 premia for irrigated paddy (Agricultural Insurance Board).
0/] Water charge in mid-1980 prices covering average O&M costs/ha across entire Mahaweli Program area.
/ Peoples Bank, irrigated paddy scale of finance.
12/ @ 9.0% p.a., assumes repayment after 8 months.
13/ Without Project income (Rs 3,633) considered a compensation for labor, not a rent.
-O14On-farm only.
5/ Assumes 96% of labor requirements met with family labor valued at going wage; assumes management "fee"
equal to 15% of operating costs and financial charges.
-/ Includes Rs 1,440 in food and kerosene stamps.
17/
Recovery of costs of settlement assistance, land clearing, on-farm development, field channels and field drains
estimated at Rs 27,550/irrigated ha (family) with 0.2 ha houseplot in mid-1980 terms on an installment plan
including a 10-year payment period preceeded by three years of probationary grace, at 41 p.a. interest.
95



ANNEX 4
Table 4
SRI LANKA
MAEAWELI GARGA NE'7LOPMENT PROJECT III
New Settler Farm Budget (Broadcast Paddy-Upland Annual Crops Rotation) 1/ 2/
Paddy-Annuals With Project
Present Value
INFLOW                                                                    Without Project            Pull Development'      Basis!4
------------------ Rs ----- -                   - ---------
Farm Production:
Paddy Sales                                                                                       13,467                89,033
Other Annual Crop Sales                                                                            4,341                28,260
On-Farm Paddy Consumption5/                                                                        4,343                34,063
On-Farm Consumption--Other Crops6/                                                                 1,874                14,698
Homestead Plot Production!1                                                                          325                 2,246
Off-Farm Income                                                                                          725                5,686
Total                                                            5,0738Y17/               25,075               139,923
OUTFLOW
Operating Costs -                                                                                     8,225                58,099
Crop Insurance-                                                     -                                    198                1,553
Water Chargell/                                                                                          500                3,581
Land Paymentl6                                                                                        1 118                 3 764
Total                                                                                      10                     , 597
NET BENEFIT BEFORE FINANCING                                                  5,073                    15,034                 72,926
FINANCING
Loan Receipt (+)12/                                                                                   4,754                37,286
Debt Service (-)L3/                                                                                   5,039                39,522
NET BENEFIT AFTER FINANCING                                                   5,073                    14,749                70,690
Incremental                                                                              9,676                30,902
CASH POSITION
Net Benefit After Financing                                                 5,073                    14,749                70,690
Less:  On-Farm Consumption                                                  _   _                     5,893                46,220
Cash Surplus Total                                                5,073                     8, 56                24,470
Incremental                                                                              3,783               -15,318
PROJECT RENT 14/
Net Benefit After Financing but Before Land and Water Charges-5/                                     15,642                72,349
Cost of Family Labor 16/                                                                              5,999                42,375
Total Project Rent                                                                       9,643                29,974
Less: Water Chargesll/                                                                                   500                3,581
Land Paymentl8/                                                                                 1,118                 3,764
Balance                                                                                   5,025               22,629
I ha irrigated upland plot with 0.2 ha houseplot.
At full development; assumes 1 ha of broadcast paddy in maha season (@ 4.0 tons/ha yield), and for yala season:
0.27 ha groundnuts (2.4 tons/ha), 0.27 ha cowpeas (1.25 tons/ha), 0.27 ha maize (5.0 tons/ha).
Si Year 5 of production.
Present value over 25-year period at 12% p.a., the long-term  financial opportunity cost of capital available to settler
who wishes to make long-term (10 years) fixed deposit in commercial bank.
5/ Based on 5.8 persons/family 8 100 kg rice/capita/year.
6/ Assumes on-farm consumption(as percent of production) as follows: groundnuts 20%), cowpeas (50%), maize (20%).
- Base on Hunting Preliminary Feasibility Study and Mahaweli Development Board, "The Report of a Socioeconomic Suryey;
A Study of the Socioeconom-ic Conditions of the People and Area to be Submerged by the Yotmale Reservoir, 1979
(Subsidiary Crops).
8/ Base Income: Rs 3,000 p.a. inflated by projected real increase in wages, 1980-90, of 21%; equivalent to Rs 39,788 on PV
basis for 25-year discounting period; rate of discount: 12% D.a.
- Assumes 4% of labor requirements would be hired-in; assumes 45 manday equivalent of labor available each month
from family members.
ioY As per July 1979 premia for irrigated paddy (Agricultural Insurance Board).
-/ Water charge in mid-1980 prices covering average O&M costs/ha across entire Mahaweli Program area.
L2/ Peoples Bank, irrigated crops scales of finance.
L3! @ 9.0% p.a., assumes repayment after 8 months.
L4/ Without Project income considered a compensation to labor, not a rent.
15/ On-farm only.
6/ Assumes 96% of labor requirements met with family labor valued at going wage; includes management "fee" equal to 15%
of operating costs and financial charges.
17/ Includes Rs 1,440 in food and kerosene stamps.
-/ Recovery of costs of settlement assistance, land clearing, on-farm development, field channels and field drains
estimated at Rs 27,550/irrigated ha (family) with 0.2 ha houseolot in mid-1980 terms on an installment plan including
a 10-year payment period oreceeded hv three yperp of probationary grace. at 4% p.a. interest.
96



DRI LANKA
9WIAW1IELI 0ANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 111
Wlithoot
Penjoer                                                                           giLl,    Project                       __________________________________________                           Present  0a1aJe ~ ~   n . - t     V.1.
Year 1~~~0614i  Year 3   Year. 4,   Year 5  Year 86   ea  7  Year 8  Yea       Year 10   -a  11   Year 12   Year 13  Yer  14-20  Year 21  Year 22  Year 23  Year 24                       _ear25   EDi-Ialont
Ceree Da,.                                                                          -           902      1, 749   3,9N2      6,7222    6, 72 7   6, 722   6, 72 7     6,727       6,722       6,722       6, 727     6,458       6, 165     5,920      5,621      5 ,362          26,114
P-ppe   als-                                                      -         956  7,'268       4,259      5,6 32    7 ,104    D,273    8,273      8,273  0,273         8,222       8,292       8,225       6 ,275     8,888       7,7744,     .479      7,2L4      6,'669          42,452
CalVes Das l--                                                                      -           722      2,016    7,534      9, 642    0, 645    9, 645  9, 645       9,645       9 ,645      9,8642      9,645      9,259       D,D73      8,488    D,6102       7,271 7         42,D91
DOnH_tead Plot PradoeLion'                                        162        21 ,,,  260,1/      292        325       322       373       325        225     225         329         3222        3222         225        329        3222        325        3225       325           2,24,5
Of-VetInoe-                                                     2 169-jJ   2,16~  2_7335-         723       2 25    2_25         275      725        725     2 25        2 25         7 25        725         725        72952   72               3      _725        2 25          9_ 145
Tata1                          5,07252/13/2,327       3,332  4,7D5        6,3D4    12,247  19,590    25,695  22-,695    22-,6 95 23,69g5         22. 695     25 ,6-92    25,692      25,695    24,775       23,852    22,937    22,017    20,766             174,847
OUTFLOW
Operating Coals6!                                                6,307      4,448  5,66D        6,697      6,DD1   8,752       9,518    9,218       9,51D   9,510       6,516       9,210       9,510        9,510      9,202       9,405      9,487      9,48D      9,475           62,194
Warer ch-egeY1/                                                     330       373      413         458        300      320        SOD      SDD        310      360         5D6         5OD         500         SOD        IDO         302        SOD        568        SOD            2,361
Lard Fayne-r-L-   -                                                               -             1.205    1,118    1,033        9_58        66~7       819      761         703         6 52        809         -          -           -          -          -          -              3 764
Tatal                                      6,627      4,61 3  6,2 95      6,260      9,619  19,285    10,960   10,697    10,629) 18,726          10.21        0,662      10613       ENE I       D 2         999        992        598        9936.3
NIT BENEFIT BEF0RE FINANCIND                           5,873      -4,318    -1,461 -1,590         -3,467     2,626    9,295    14,727  14,796    14,666 14,964            14.962      15,833      12.060      15,665    64,772       13,657    12,959    12,037    1D, 793             54,508
Ctla  Dabsidy  5-3/-                                               325       206      452         454        61.6                                                             -  -  -         -        -           -          -                                                      1,600
Pepp-c Sabsidy(-t-y3/                                     -         532       533      412         2 77       -        -          -        -          -        -----                                                      -----1,564
Coffee Sabaldy(+)!/                                       -        535        616      -           494       616       -                              -       --                                               ---                                                                   1_635
Total                          5,073       1,605      1,359      624      1,065      D,236                                             -                                                                                                                        4,799--       ---    
NIT B0NEF10 AFTER FINANCING                            5,075      -2,703        -122    -766      -1,922      4,164   5,205   14,727   14,796    14,966 14,924            14,962      12,833      15,860      15,665    14,772       13,857    12,926    12,037    00,793              59,497
leorensetal               ~     ~    ~ ~~         ~ ~~-  -  -  -    -         -      4,122      9,634    9,723       9,763  6.631        9,969       9,96D      10,087       16,612      9,70D       6,764      2.677      6,964      5,72D          19,669
CASH FODITION
Net Be-flta After FLea..nfeg                         5,673      -2,703       -122    -766      -1,922      4,164   9,2D5   14,777  14,796    14,8666 14,628            64,962      13,0133      13,666,     11,6,81    14,779      t2,657   12,95D    12,D37   LO,793                56,44D
les: FD-Pas  Cenesnptian                              -         162        211     760         262        325       225       325       329        323     325         323         325         325          325        322        3M22        325        325        323          2_245
Cash Sarpl-  Total             5,7        -2,667       -333 - 1 ,226     -2,717   3763         67660   T0462  T4773          - 62341 T47,59     51743,57    _1476 477         34f2~   13,366    147,446      13,5327   17,623    11,712    19,466             57,192
lssnsansentnL  -       -       -         -           -          -      2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~,697  9,329    6,490  9,466   9,326  6.364  9,635  9,682     16,267      9,375       8,439      7,332      6,630      5,295           17,364
PROJECT RENT2!
Bet BsnfEt After Flssa-ing bar before  Land sod
Dater Cbh-Osi0/                                               -4,340    -1,914 -2,916        -  664,    2,657   9,766    13,460  19,460    15,466 15,466             63,466      15,460    13,460         13,466    14,346       13,632    62,725    11,612    10,566              57,567
Cost of tamEly Lab-rL/                                           3,278    2.304  2.6D3          1,039    2.745   4,1530   A_161    4_394            1_273  4,355        4,33 7      4e321        4,306       4.119    4,1 17        4,116      4,115    4,1 14       4,113           26.7 64
Total P-je-t DeR.t                        -7,810   -4,216 -6,195         -3,993    1,312   3,656    l1,D44  11,066    1 1,D87 11,162             11,123      11,139      11,154       11,341    10,431        9,516      6,610      7,696      6,403           28,33
Les-  Dater Ch-egaY.7                                               320       373      415         456        500      SDD        309      311        SOD      560         300         ODD         206          SOD        506         3DD        SOD        500        506            3,361
Land Py t414                                       -          -       -         -05O                  1_116    1 033     9_56        66_L7     9_19     761         7613        652         603          -          -           -          -          --                       3,760
Rolonee                        ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~-6,140    -4,191 -8,619  -5,656  - 306   4,129     9,596   9,679        9,7686  9,644       9,926       9,967      48,849       1D,684 1    14931       9-6         ,10        ,16       55521,466
!Asso-e  1/3 ha of n.r.. (171,DDD kg dry beats/ha., fall dyerlapne.t),l/3 ha of Ppeppe   (@1,123  kg/ha, fall dev-lopent), a-d 1/3 ha af mEtfs  601,6060 kE/h. fall d-vlOp-tj.
3!Based on Doustng P-eltinary Fes-ibility Itady and MNab.onli Dsvelapnn.oC Boad, "TIse Rep-t of I toisooi   S-ey: A Stsdy of tleSnaeoof   Coaditos   of rho People end Area to be Dabee-ged by rho feale. Re-rvi."'
1976 (abaldia-y traps).
-Bas  I000...  Ds 3,000 p.o. inflated 6y projected rea  lers-s  isu-gn..  1980-90, of 21%; oqai-l-rt to R. 39,766 on PP basis fEr, 25-yea   di-ro-tng period;  cee of di--o                                       : 12% P.a.
A/ Assonna 4%, of lab- or-q,i-tsr   -Id he hls-d-i; as--oe  45  -sndny eoaLLof  Laber avilable   -he esnh feos  Easily  -seb-r.
W.Iare  cl         -...inreafg to Is 590/be ia nid-1980 price e--oern    -vrge 84M goats/ha a-e-   -ntirs Maha..et   r-gra- area,
3!1988 sabsidy le-n   naiernind Ln real none.  DSsr: Deportme-t of Ninar  ep-rt Crops.
!Wi thoar Pr-je-t is--c  oansid-rd a              natnto lAbor, nor a ret.
1/Assone  96% of lahar roemnra nt 40th Eanily labor -al-d ar going eage; in-lod- .. aoge-et Ifes" eqsel te 15% sf op-etieg rnts andflafa1eros
12/ Pro...nr -aIne ot 25 yea-      rm   dintonerd at 127. p             t, hs long-tent fiacn         pp-rtossty  -nne tf tnpttal   -ilehle to sorrle  ses  iahos sa make l-m--tn  (18 yn                         i-ed deFe-it Ln   - -seriol hank.
123! 1n-lad- No 1.440 in foad and K-se...no Sta-p,
13!  Derorery of taste  o  nertlsenar asrlsranre  la-d eate,ofrede-elpnee, field  -lenI,ad field dreit-  -ti-tard or R  27,55D/lrrigaisd ha  (fanily) nith 9.2 ha boe-plol  ime~ld-i960 tor-s orapsos    lee
fs-lsdiog a llpeye payss.nt peetod pre-ded by thre  year   of p-obntiosar   free, at 4% pa-  intre... t



ANNEX 4
Table 6
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Farm Budgets of Existing Farmers with Irrigated Holdings in Major Tank Schemes (Paddy-Paddy Rotation)42 '
Mechanized and Transplanted Case           Non-Mechanized and Broadcast Case
Without  Project3/      With Project3/          Without Project3/   With Project3/
---------------------------------------Rs-----------------------------------
INFLOW
Farm Production:
Paddy Sales                             29,899                36,644                    25,945             31,903
On-farm Paddy Consumption4/              4,031                 4,072                     4,592               4.741
Homestead Plot Productionl/                 325                  325                       325                 325
Off-Farm Income                                 725                   725                       725                725
Total                 33,930                41,766                    31,587             37,694
OUTFLOW
Operating Costs6/                             7,724                9.269                     7,392               8,870
Crop Insurance 7/                               297                   356                      297                 356
Water Charge8/                                   75                                                                500
Total                  8,096                10,125                     7,764              9,726
NET BENEFIT BEFORE FINANCING                 25,834               31,641                    23,823              27,968
Incremental                                                    5,807                                        4,145
FINANCING
Loan Receipt (+)!/                            4,300                5,160                     4,615               5,538
Debt Service (-)10/                           4,558                5,470                     4,892               5,870
NET BENEFIT AFTER FINANCING                  25,576               31,331                    23,546              27,636
Incremental                                                    5,755
CASH POSITION
Net-Benefit after Financing                  25,576               31,331                    23,546              27,636
Less: On-Farm Consumption                     4,170                4,170                     4,170               4,170
Cash Surplus Total                      21,406                27,161                    19,376             23,466
Incremental                                                    5,755                                        4,090
PROJECT RENT
Net Benefit after Financing but before
Water Chargell/                         24,926               31,106                    22,896              27,411
Cost of Family Labor 12/                      4,978                6,035                     4,618               5,975
Total Rent                              19,948                25,071                    18,278             21,436
Less: Current Water Charge!8                     75                   500                        75                500
Rent Balance                            19,873                24,571                    18,203             20,936
Total Rent                              19,948                25,071                    18,278              21,436
Project Rent                                                   5,123                                        3,158
11
- 1 ha irrigated paddyland plot with 0.2 ha houseplot.
V At full development yields: 5.0 tons/ha (mechanized land preparation and transplanted paddy) and 4.5 tons/ha
(non-mechanized land preparation and broadcast paddy).
2/ Without Project case assumes same levels of technical performance with regard to input usage and outputs derived
as With Project Case. The project would, however, permit increased land use intensity from 150% (Without Project)
to 180% (With Project).
- Based on 5.8 persons/family @ 100 kg rice/capita/year.
5 Based on Hunting Preliminary Feasibility Study and Mahaweli Development Board, "The Report of a Socioeconomic
Survey: A Scudy of the Socioeconomic Conditions of the People and Area to be Submerged by the Kotmale Reservoir,"
1979 (Subsidiary Crops).
6  Assumes 4% of labor requirements would be hired-in; assumes 45 manday equivalents of labor available each month from
family members.
- As per July 1979 premia for irrigated paddy (Agricultural Insurance Board).
8  Without project, current -Rter charge maintained in real terms: Rs 20/ac with cropping intenslties less than 150%: anm
Rs 3n/ac, greater than or equal to 150%; with project, increesed to Rs 500 representing average O&M costs across
Mahaweli Program area.
9/ Peonles Bank. irriRated paddy scale of finance.
/   9.0% p.a., assumes repayment after 8 months.
/ On-farm only.
12/ Assumes 96% of labor requirements met with family labor valued at going wage; include management "fee" equal to
15% of operating costs and financial charges.
98



ANNEX 4
Table 7
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Farm Budget of Existing Farmer With Irrigated Holdings in Minor Tank Scheme
Paddy-Paddy Rotation
Withoutl/       With2/
Project        Project
-----as
INFLOW
Farm Production:
Output Sales                                      12,292          36,644
On-farm Consumption!                                3,995          4,072
Homestead Plot Production4/                           325            325
Off-Farm Income                                           725            725
Total                             17,337         41,766
OUTFLOW
Operating Costs                                         6,011!!        9,2695/
Crop Insurance!!                                          237            356
Water Charge!/                                             5021/         500
Total                              6,298         10,125
NET BENEFIT BEFORE FINANCING                          11,039          31,641
Incremental                          -           20,602
FINANCING
Loan Receipt (+) -/                                     3,692          5,160
Debt Service (-) -/                                     3,913          5,470
NET BENEFIT AFTER FINANCING                           10,818          31,331
Incremental                          -           20,513
CASH POSITION
Net Benefit After Financing                           10,818         31,331
Less: On-farm Consumption                              4,170          4,170
Cash Surplus Total                 6,648         27,161
Incremental                          -           20,513
PROJECT RENT
Net Benefit After Financing but before
Water Charge-/1/                                   10,143         31,106
Cost of Family Labor!!'                                3,956          6,224
Total Rent                         6,187         24,882
Less: Current Water Charge                          5__7                 500
Rent Balance                       6,137         24,382
Total Rent                         6,187         24,882
Project Rent                         -           18,695
I/ 1.0 ha paddyland cropped at 120% intensity (3.0 tons/ha) and 0.2-ha houseplot.
2/ 1.0 ha paddyland plot cropped at 180% intensity (5.0 tons/ha) and 0.2 ha houseplot.
3/ Based on 5.8 persons/family @ 100 kg rice/capita/year.
A/ Based on Hunting Feasibility Study and Mahaweli Development Board, "The Report
of a Socioeconomic Survey: A Study of the Socioeconomic Conditions of the People
and Area Submerged by the Kotuale Reservoir " 1979 (Subsidiary Crops).
5/ Assumes 4% of labor requirements would be hired-in; assumes 45 manday equivalent
of labor available each month from family members.
6 As per July 1979 premia for irrigated paddy (Agricultural Insurance Board).
7/ Without project, current water charge maintained in real terms: Rs 20/ac with
cropping intensities less than 150% and Rs 30/ac, greater than or equal to 150%;
with project, increased to Rs 500 representing average O&M costs across Mahaweli
Program area.
-/ Peoples Bank, irrigated crops scales ^f tinance.
9/ @ 9.0% p.a., assumes repayment after 8 months.
IN On-farm only.
II/ Assumes 96% of labor requirements met with family labor valued at going wage;
includes managemert "fee" equal to 15% of operating costs and financial charges.
99



T4;^LE Yl
M6o6ELT ! 4C.607 FEVELOO4ENIT tgD!EAT IT!
*, ,,,flt, Cash 91w!
SMillior, F<)
Y7A4              [98G         !-9           [982        19M           19P84        1985          1q96         1987          [988          [9e8          909         1[791          [979          1993        1[94           1?S
pFQOFT K7 FEFITSN [
rkil-tif -     2/               -             -         39.3        121 i          46.4        398,          582,8         791.4        897.9         977,6        1026.4        1051.4       1051,4         051 .4       [051.4      t[,Al '
0T79R AINUA3f                    -            -                   -                 1.1           3.2          6.2          9.0          11.7          13.2          142           14.6          14.6         14.6          14.6          14.6
PENNMIPLS-                     -                          - -           -                        0.2          0.8           2.2           5.2          9,8          17.0          23.4         28.1          30.2          30.2          Z0.2
FUE'       /                    -      -                   -             -             -            -             -                          -             -            -                           -         25.0          25.0          25.0
CAS8EWS5          6/                                       -             -             -            -          0.4           1.6           5.0         10,2          16.1          21,8          26.^         28.8          30.5          3!.4
HOMESTEA1D  LTS -61                                      0.3           0.9          1.9           3.2          4.8           6.6           7.4          8.1           8.5           8.7           8.7          8.7          8B7            8.7
TOTAL                        -            -         39,5         128.0         249.4        404.6         595,1        811.5         927.2       1018.2        1084.1        1119.9        1128.9        1158.6       1160.4        1161.3
8ROJECT COSTS
CArIIAL COSTS
PT 8N CANAL I P.    7/       38,4        '25.0         175,6         20.0             -             -             -            -             -             -            -             -             -             -
IR8  I 00:6IN 1 EY1-         22.0        137.8         292.2        259,8         254.9        224,6        I[I-8              -             -            -             -             -             -             -
SOC I A08NU 19FR6S            1.9         27.4          48.7         47,5          49,3          21.3          3.7                           -             -            -             -             -             -
EQUIPMENT                                     -         50.7         42 8          34.8          25,9         17.9             -             -             -            -             -             -             -
T9 ,908.  SETTLE                -          6.9          21.5         29.8          25.8         22.7          12,8             -             -            -             -             -             -             -
588ToTAL                 62.3         397.1        588.7         39 9,         364.8        294.5         146.2             -            -             -             -             -             -            -             -             -
RECtJRRENT CQSTS
STAFr SALAF'IE                  -          0.9           2.6          4.3           6.6           9.0         10.6          10.6         10.6          [0.6          10.6          [0.6          [0.6        1[06           19.6          [0.6
ST4FF TAVEL                     -          0.1           0.4          0.6           1.0           1.3          1.4           1.4           1.4          1.4           1.4           1.4           1.4          1.4,         1[4            1.4
VENCtLE BP                      -          0.5           1.3          2.1           3.1           4.0          4,7           4.7           4.7          4.7           4.7           4.7           4.7          4.1           4.7           4.7
EQUIP OF                                      -            -          0.8           2.3           3.8          4.6           4.6          4,6           4.6           4,6           4.6           4.6          4.6           4.6           4.6
MATERIALS                       --                                    0.1           0.3           8.5          0,7           0.7          0.7           0.7           0.7           0.7           0.7          0.7           0,7           0.7
SUITOTAL                     -          1,6          4.3           7.9          13.2         [8.7          22.0         22.0          22.0          22.0         22.0          22.0          22.0          22.0          22.0         22-0
r8op FF:Q  COSTS                               4.2         23,3          60.3        108.4         168.2        236,9         297.4         326.8        348,8.        361J.         364.9         365.7         368,4        368.S         ;69,3
REI DENErqTS FOQEGONE I             -            -        -10.0          25.3         35.6          54.0          71,9         79.5          81.6         83.8          86.2          88.4          90.7          92.9         95.1          9>.4
O                       OTTAL                    62.3        402.9         606.2        493,4         522.0        535.4         476.9         398.e        430.4         454.5         469.1         475.3         478.6        483.3         485.6         4e9.t
TOTAL NET  RENEFITS               -42.3        -402.9       -566.7        -365.4       -277.6        -130.8         118.1        412 6         494.8        563.7         615.0         644.6         650.4         675.4        674.8         12,5
Note:  See  footnotes  on  page 4.
go F D



CAOAELI ANS [tUEL2t1EOT PF95 JErT ;:r
YEAR  P~~~~0-2C0O  205       ZOO? ~~~~~   2003        2004          ZOO         2004         ZOO?          2222~                     20'S         2011         2012         2013          2014         71
ff UT VEfTPrEFITP
P4pp0 -                  1051,4       1027,3       1003.1       ?17,          255,1        P3,           31.O        131,0        93l.0         931,0        p31,0        T3j,3        ?31,0        931.0        93l,0        T31,Q
OT4EF  MLAR   2/            It4,        016          14,4         14,6         14,6         14,6         1446         t146          1446         14.6         14.6         14.0         14.6         14.4          14.6         !4.t
rF010911.1-I AL0,2'                     301,2        30.2         310.2        30~0         25,5         28.?         27.5          24.12        2I1.5        14.9          7,9          227          5.2          10.0         10?
R2IEIiOOOS'         ~~~~25.0     25.0         25.0         25.0         25.0         25.0         25.0         25.0         25.0          255.0        25,0         25,0         25.0         215.I0       25.4           0.
CASpEW1S5                   31.4        31.4         31.4         31,4         31.4         31.4         31.4         31.'          31.4         31.4         31,4         31 ,4-       31.4         31.4         31.4          31,4
qg0E151100  9L,6/             ,7         0,7?         8.7          0.7          8.7          8.7          B,?          9,7          S.7           9,7          8,7          9,7          0.3           ,17         8,7           9,7
TOTAL                 1161.3       1j37,11      1113,0       1089.1       1064.8       1040.2       10393        1038.1       1036.9       10321        1025,6        1010.4       101289       1015.0       10210,6      1021.4
F;'TJSCT LOOTS
CAFITAL COSTS
PI fPr40ANL1I E51              -            --                                     ---E                                                                                                                                 
lFR IIDRAHIN EV-                            -                        ----                                                                           ------
SOC I AEMININFRAS              -                         --                                                  --                                     -------
TA, MORH& SETTLE-                           -            ---                                                --                                      -------
SUBTOTAL.                   -           -            -            -            -            -            -            -             -            -.           -            -            -            -            -             -
PECI80K'EIT C05T5
STAFF SALARIES              0106        10.6         10,6         10.6         10.6         10,6         10,6         10.6          10,6         10.6         10.6         10.6         10.6         10.0         10.6          10.6
STAFF 116AV1L                1.4          1.4          1.4          1.4          1.4          1.4          1.4          1.4          1.4          1.4          1.4          1.4          1.4          j,h           1.4          1.4
VEHICLE OP                   4.7         4.7          4,7          4.7           4.7         4.7           4,7         4.7           4.7          4.7          4.7          4,7          4.7          4.?           4.7          4.'
EQUIP OP                     4.6          4,6          4.6          4,6          4.6          4.6         4.6          4.6           4.6          4.6          4.4          4.6          4.6          4.6           4.0          4,6
MIATERIALS                   9,7         0.7          0,7           0,7          0,7         0.7           0.7         0.7           0.7    .    0,7           0.7          0.7          0,7          0,7           0.7          0,7
SUIPTOTAL               22.0         22.0         22.0         22,          22.0         22.0         22,0         22.0         22.0          22.0         22.0         22.0         22.0         22.0         222.0         22.0
CR00 PR0OD COSTS-             309.3        369,3        360,3        169,3        360.5        368,4        360,4        248.3        368.3        347.7        366.5        365.2        304.2         304.7        366.2        367?'
NE   E  001 rPcOE,0011  101.3       101.3        101,3k       101.3        101.3        101.3        101,3        101,3        10i.3        109.3        101.3        101.3         101.3        101.3        101.7        101.1
TOTAL                  492.5        492.5        492.5        492,5        491,7        491,7        491.4        491,6        491.5        491,0         490,7        4005    8.5        497,5               409,4        491 
C)         TnYTA  NET PENE10135             648.         444.6        420.5        596,6        573,1        540.5        547,7        546.5        545.4        541.1        53F,9        530.0         525.3        52.          531.3        53,
Note:  See  footnotes  on  page  4.                                                                                                                                                                                                t      -



SC! LAFNL
-----iJE! rn-: Et2--ET ---- -OO-ECI 1-
Ecorct C!sl. ' r.l.
'n.;isr Tn!
TEAE             2014tA  2019                           2019         2020         2021         2022        2023           024         202M         2926         2Q07         202s         2e29
FIOOECT PENFEMtis1
PAOpy 2                    *39         9311. 0 m    .0          m.0          931.0        93:,0        931,0        93o           931.0        ?31.0        931.0        931o         931.0        931.0
OTHER ANI4IJAL*2/           14.6         14,6         14.6         14.6         14,6         14.6        14.6         144                        14.6         14.4         14.6         14.4         14.6
PERENNIALS                   3 J.4       28.3         39.2        30.2          30.2         30.7         30,2        30.2          30.2         30.2         30.2         30,2         30.2         30.9
PJELUMO1D4                 25.0         25.0          25.0        25.0          25.0         25.0        250          0 20          25.0         25.0         25.0         25.0         2'.10        25.0
CASH!EI1S 5/               31,4         31.4          31,1        30.5         29,5         20.3          27.0        09,1          12.9          6.3
HPOESTEAD PLOTS              ,?7         8,7           8.7         8.7           7,7          8.1          0.7          8.7          8,7          e.7          0.7          0.7          8.'          9,7
TOTAL                 1034.1       1038.?       1049,5       1039.9       1039,o       1037,7       1036,4       1029.2       1022.3       1015.7       1009.4        1009.4       l9.4         1009.3
PROJE? C0Stg
CAPITAL cOSTS
Pi BY CAAL I RESE              -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -                                      -
IRR I 'RIN E                   -           -             -            -           -             -           -             -            -                         --
s    I AP8IN INFRAS            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -
TA.noWl SETTLE                 -            -            -           -             -                                                                -
SIJRTOTAI.         -    -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - - -- - -- -  - -- - -- -  - -- - ----    -- - - --  - -- - -  -- - - --  - -- - - --  - - ---   -- - - --  - -- - - - ----   - - --  - -
RECIJRIEYT COSTS
STAFF SALARIES              10.6        10.6         10.6         10.6         30,6         30.6         10.6         30.6          10.6         10.6         10.6         30.6         10.6         10.6
STAFF TRAVEL                 1.4          1,4          1.4          1.4         1,4          1.4          3.4           1.4          3.4          14           1,4          1.4          1.4          3,4
VEHICLE OF                   4,7          4,7          4,7          4.7         4,7           4,7         4,7           4,7          4.7          4.7          4,7          4.7          4,7          4,7
EQUIP OP                     4,6         4,6           4.4          4,6          4.6         4.6          4.6           4.6          4,6          4.6          4.6          4.6          4.6          4.6
HATEPIALS                    0.7          0,7         0.7         0o7           0,7          0.7          0,7          0,7           0.7          0.7          0,7          0,7          0.           5,7
SUITOTAL                22.0         22.0         22,6         22.0         22.0         22.0         22.0         22.0         22,0         22,0          22,0         22.0         22.0        2",
CRO  PROD COSTS  91           368,1        368,4        36s,4       368.4         360,3        360,2        364.1        366.6        365.2        363.8        362.5        360.9        359.0         358.0
NET REIEFITS FOREOE         10 1,3         10.13        103,3        101,3        101,3        101.3        10.3         303 .3       300,3        301,3        303,3        103.3        103.3         10!.3
TOTAL                   9.3         4916         491,7        491.6        493,5        491,4        49133        489.e        40F94        487.1        495 7         494-0       482.2         403.?
0           TOTAL NET  KENEFITS              542.9        547.1        548.9        549.3        547.4        546.3        545.2        539.4         533.9        520.7        523.0        525.'        527.?        520.0
Note: See footnotes on page 4.
It` >
to ro 4:



ANNEX 4
Table 8
Page 4
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT III
Economic Cash Flow--Footnotes
1/ Reference Table 5.1 (text) and Annex 4, Table 1.
2/ Full development yields/cropping intensities reached at farm level
6 years after settlement.
3/ Full development yield level reached at farm level eight years after
settlement.
4/ Assumes 1 ton fuelwood required per settler-family p.a.; yield: 98.8 tons/ha
(2,000 Hoppus ft/ac); ten-year growing period.
5/ Full development yields reached seven years after planting.
6/ Based on Hunting Feasibility Study and MDB, "The Report of a Socioeconomic
Conditions of the People and Area to be Submerged by the Kotmale Reservoir,"
1979 (Subsidiary Crops).
7/ 50% allocation of costs.
8/ Includes 33% allocation of costs of social infrastructure and main roads.
9/ Reference Annex 3, Table 2. The stream of economic agricultural production
costs was adjusted to reflect non-simultaneous incurrence of costs and
realization of benefits. See W. Schaefer-Kehnert, Methodology of Farm
Investment Analysis, EDI Course Note CN-67, August 1979.
10/ Reference Table 5.1 (text).
1.03



ANNEX 4
Table 9
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Relative Importance of Project Cost and Benefit Streams with Switching Values
Percent of Total    Switching   Swi tchi7g   Switchi7g
PW of Benefit        Value2        Value_?      Value.2!
or Cost Stream;/    (10% p.a.)  (12% p.a.)  (14% p.a.)
I. Project Benefits
A. Paddy                                93.7               -30.2        -23.4        -16.1
B. Other Annuals                         1.2                 *            *            *
C. Perennials                            1.6                 *            *         -982.7
D. Fuelwood                              1.0                 *            *            *
E. Cashews                               1.7                 *            *         -955.S
F. Homestead Plots                       0.8                 *            *            *
Total Benefits (%)             100.0               -28.1       -21.9        -15.1
(Rs M)                   (4,680.4)
II. Project Costs
A. Capital Costs
1. Rt Bank Canal and Reservoirs       9.6               473.3        291.6        163.5
2. Irrigation, Drainage
and Land Development              22.2               198.6        126.3         73.0
3. Soc & Admin. Infrastructure        3.5                 *          795.4        457.5
4. Equipment                          2.9                 *          982.9        570.9
5. TA, Monitoring,& Set. Assist.    1.9                   *            *          831.4
Subtotal                        40.1               110.6         69.8        40.1
B. Recurrent Costs
1. O&M                                3.2                 *          866.0        578.3
2. Ag. Production Costs              44.8                81.0         62.6         42.9
C. Net Ag. Benefits Foregone            11.9               305.3        236.7        162.7
Total Costs (%)                100.0                39.2         28.0         17.8
(Rs M)                    (3,655.7)
- Streams discounted at 12% p.a.
2t Switching value is the percentage change in the specified stream that reduces the
NPW of the project to zero at the specified discount rate.
Estimated benefits decrease by more than 1,000%; or estimated costs increase by
more than 1,000%.
104



ANNEX 4
SRI LANKA                              Chart 1
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Rs M --T
I 45G0   - , \:
A. Locus of Present Values of Total Project
Costs and Benefits
cO 4000      i\
CD_
3D   0 \
-7i
1, 2S50O 
>3000
12 0   13.0   14.30  15.0   16 .C   170   18.C   19            20.0
i, TS COUN T u, T  RT .
LEGEND
= 12.00X. - OPPORTUNITY COST OF CAPITAL
= TOTAL PROJECT BENEFITS
- _______________ -      TOTRL PROJECT COSTS
B. Locus of Total Project Cost and Benefit
U 25    ~~--                               Switching Values
:D     I
z~2   E         ------
Lz 25 r-
Wli
I-_ 
0     2     4     6     8    10    12     4    16    1    20   -2 2
s:~~~~~~~~~~~~" _-q~1 T                               :T
ER CENT 5E-                          Li  IN        .ENE  ITS
Benefit Switching Point is -21.9%
Cost Switching Point is      28.0%
105



ANNEX 5
Page 1
SRI LANKA
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Related Documents and Background Papers in Project File
A. Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1. Hunting Technical Services Ltd., System C Mahaweli Development
Project Feasibility Study 1979, Main Report and Annexes 1-6,
December 1979.
2.                            , Irrigation System Trials Unit Block 404,
System H Construction Report, February 1980.
3.                            , Data Requested in IDA Aide Memoire, n.d.
4.                            , System C Final Designs and Detailed Cost
Estimates: Irrigation Systems Trials Unit Block H404 2nd Monitor-
ing (Final) Report, November 1980.
5.                            , System C Final Designs and Detailed
Cost Estimates, Development Plan, December 1980.
6. MDB-NEDECO, Mahaweli Ganga Development Program Implementation
Strategy Study, vols 1-8, September 1979.
7. Tippetts, Abbett, McCarthy, and Stratton, Environmental Assessment:
Accelerated Mahaweli Development Program Mid-Term Report, Feb. 1, 1980.
8.                            , Environmental Assessment:  Accelerated
Mahaweli Development Program, vols 1-4, October 1980.
9. Mahaweli Development Board, Settlement Planning and Development
Division, Basic Socio-Economic Data of System 'C', Colombo, 1979.
10.  Government of Sri Lanka and the World Bank, Sri Lanka:  Mahaweli
Ganga Development Program Status Statement III, May 20, 1980.
11. Sri Lanka: Mahaweli Ganga Development Project III, Status of Field
Investigations, Surveys, and Designs, A Working Paper, September 1980.
12. Sri Lanka: Mahaweli Ganga Development Project III, Water Supply
and Demand, (A Working Paper), September 1980.
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Economy and the Agricultural Sector
1. World Bank, Sri Lanka: Key Development Issues in the 1980s, Report
No. 2955-CE, vols 1-2, May 20/29, 1980.
2. Department of Minor Export Crops, Minor Export Crops Assistance
Scheme (Cocoa, Pepper, Coffee), Kandy, n.d.
106



-2-                                  ANNEX 5
Page 2
3.  Sri Lanka Cashew Corporation, Nedagamuwa Cashew Processing Centre
Estimates 1980, Colombo, n.d.
4. Sri Lanka Cashew Corporation, The Proposed New Subsidy/Loan
Assistance Scheme for Cashew Cultivation, Colombo, n.d.
107






0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~                                                                             iN~N-
0                                                        CL>~~~ C~C    0    C O
00  m   ~ ~ '0  .0~0                     0       
--p
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 



I



O_ v__                                                                             -'=-_               v  | I N D IA b A3d '4YEI N A
=_P 0 L O N N A  R U W  A                                                                                    ASR LANKA
i.-D I S T R I C TSiJMIA
Q .  Mo,, t.:_- 1   1..  -         f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.                                         NH
AF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KN
AArredAArroae~~~~j.)                                                                                   10y 'F]   F   ,mAA
, _t,,X p e O P O S F D ,-' .~ '_ 
RESERVE, | --   /                     O NArU                                                                                O L A N KA"
D I S T R I, CT                                    A0                                            1000A R   C)  5,ST
..                          ~        fn- -AAPRAOAAIOSEDO,O
H.,i,bN /                     0 N
3CS`RICT~k  J
NA     ;> TUR                                                                                                  AAAF  '  Ad6AAAVAAV^ 
RESERT         jg                                'e   >                                                     SRI LANKA
tij{:AS    v z  vi    t;                       MAHAWELI GANGA  DEVELOPMENT PROJECI'
-    Project Aa
Al  :\             k -  .: \.                                 V, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U, Ud., Developmenit by GOSL
Project Irrigated AreasrA~
=t   p'lY                               E.s firg R   pCe C.1twortion
\vW  /  s t                                            EE~~~~~~~~~~ConsE-vt,.. Fore.sts
D I S T R I C T j   r; fr -  ,$g     G -(                   D I S T R I C T             t :EO ocF-ret Plcnt.tio.E, Cashew, Fuelwood, G-ai,,g
2  }  5 X ztsrsvdrrv  z.v/z                            g=  ~~~~~~~~~Ex,stmg Tanks
______                                   46cr 1f " '  t   iNv zf ...............-  Tanks and REservo,rs Under Contr_ction
t\. .d ; > i ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Agricultural De,,elopnnent Training Center arid Form
V\# ' 'nr AW'                                                      Tons
roArn44*r  ~~~~~ } 1  'ersrr>.;.,.                          - ~~~~~ Ne,, Area Centers
AMg PARAIs            .New Village Cent-rI
Mahiyagon9CJi      -w   C-wo                J                                             Residert Project Engineer Offices
{  <                                                  *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Climatologicol Stotio..
8ir4k,SgSVaS~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Markt ink R.ods
<ff~~~        ~~~~     - - - - --                                   Proposed Main ond Branch Canals
DISTRICT) <C tYNJ  A<A                                                         cr130.  ' Zone B.und-Ie
o:-<.I' ....?'   >'    /)ArrrcA  AJ
I t >u ,.,.,U,bw 0 .-.- - ~~~~~~Systerm C Boundary
/._y~~~~~cg INC /N                                                               2                                         ii
1?                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETER  0  2  3  4,  5  6  7  E  9  10EU2
_                            MA AWE MILES o G                 2    3    4 D           PrOJE



