L OFFICIALT          LOAN NUMBER 1959 ZIM
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Manufacturing Rehabilitation Imports Program)
between
ZIMBABWE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1959 ZIM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1981, between
ZIMBABWE (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe" means the bank established
by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe Act, Cap. 173, which is
responsible for the administration of foreign exchange pursuant
to the Exchange Control Act, Cap. 170; and
(b) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification Revision 2, Statistical Papers, Series M No.
34/Rev. 2 (1975).
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for


﻿- 2 -
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreemenat and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the coordination and collection
of relevant documentation and the preparatiot of withdrawal
applications under the Loan to be undertaken on its behalf by the
Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for goods costing more than $4,000,000 equivalent to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured on the
basis of procedures that include broad international tendering
amongst suppliers from the Bank's member countries and Switzerland
and from Taiwan and contract award to the lowest evaluated respon-
sive bidder. Before requesting a withdrawal of proceeds of the
Loan on account of any such contract, the Borrower shall cause the
Bank to be furnished with a brief report, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, on the procedures followed in procuring
such contract. If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that
the procedures followed in procuring such contract are incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Section, no expenditures under such contract shall be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan. The Bank shall promptly inform the
Borrower of, and state the reasons for, any such determination.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency.
(b) The Borrower shall take such action as may be required
to ensure that:
(i) the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe shall make available
to approved importers, promptly as needed, such
amounts of foreign exchange as shall be required to
import goods financed under the Project;
(ii) the timely importation of such goods shall be
facilitated;
(iii) approval shall be granted only in respect of
applications satisfying such criteria as to the
import priority of the goods required, their
proposed utilization, the operational and financial
qualifications of the applicant, and otherwise,
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree; and .
(iv) such financial and administrative measures are
adopted and implemented as are necessary to ensure
that all goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan are utilized for the purpose for which
the relevant approval was given, and in accordance
with the terms of such approval.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Reserve Bank
of Zimbabwe to operate an account in the name of the Borrower
(hereinafter called the Project Account), and to credit to the
Project Account, upon each withdrawal from the Loan, the equiva-
lent in Zimbabwe dollars of the currency or currencies withdrawn
from the Loan (such equivalent to be determined as of the respec-
tive dates of such withdrawals).
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, withdrawals
shall be made from the Project Account exclusively to finance the
local currency capital or recurrent costs of development related
projects being carried out by the Borrower and included in its
Central Government Budget.


﻿-4-
(c) The Borrower shall cause the Project Account to be
audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank and shall transmit to
the Bank by September 30, 1982, certified copies of the financial
statements relating to the Project Account and a signed copy of
the report of the said auditors.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
insured, or that adequate provision shall be made for their
insurance, against hazards incidental to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to
be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04 (a) The Borrower: (i) shall cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it), to identify the goods fi-.ced out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to
examine all relevant records and documents concerning goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it.
(b) Upon the award of any contract for goods costing more
than $4,000,000 equivalent to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the carrying out of the Project, its cost
and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the per-
formance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obliga-
tions under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Bcrrower shall cause to be maintained
by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe records adequate to reflect in


﻿-6-
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations resources and expenditures, in respect of
the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) undertake a review of
its import licensing procedures and tariff structure, in accord-
ance with terms of reference agreed upon between the Borrower and
the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank by March 1, 1983 a report on
the conclusions and recommendations arrived at as a result of such
review; and (iii) allow the Bank a reasonable opportunity to study
the said report and to exchange views thereon with the Borrower
prior to any action on such report being taken by the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date         I  Iq P  , is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Private Bag 7705
Causeway
Salisbury, Zimbabwe
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINFIN                              MINFIN RH 2141
Salisbury                           Zimbabwe


﻿-7-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ZIMBABWE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                                   CULf-I
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Loan
1.   The goods that may be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be imported items included in SITC Divisions, with
the exception of the following:
Division
Section      Code                   Division Heading
0        00 through 09 -   Food and Live Animals Chiefly for
Food
1        11 and 12      -  Beverages and Tobacco
3        32 through 35 - Mineral Fuels, Lubricants and Related
Materials
5        54 through 57 - Medicinal and Pharmaceutical Products
(except for sub-group 541.1 through
541.6)
-  Oil and Perfume Materials
- Fertilizers Manufactured
- Explosives and Pyrotechnic Products
7        78             -  Road Vehicles (including Air Cushion
Vehicles and Motor Vehicle Kits)
8        83 through 85 -   Travel Goods, Handbags and Similar
Containers
- Articles of Apparel and Clothing
Accessories
-  Footwear
8        88 and 89      -  Photographic Apparatus, Equipment and
Sipplies and Optical Goods n.e.s.,
Watches and Clocks
- Miscellaneous Manufactured Articles
n.e.s.


﻿-9-
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $6,500,000 (unless these have
already been financed by the Association), may be made on account
of payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
December 26, 1980;
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof;
(d) payments made for expenditures for goods to be supplied
under a contract which any official bilateral or multi-lateral
agency shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
(e) payments made for expenditures for goods under invoices
for less than the equivalent of $5,000.
3.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule
is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the provision of foreign exchange
for the importation into Zimbabwe of essential raw materials,
spare parts, components and balancing equipment for the Borrower's
manufacturing sector.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1986
through   October 15, 2000                  1,665,000
On April 15, 2001                                1,715,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 12 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  1.45%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                  2.90%
More than six years but
not more than eleven
years before maturity                            5.30%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                            7.70%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                            8.65%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                  9.60%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this        -day of, 198 /
FOR SECRETARY


