CIRCULATING CCpy
Y~~ ~  ~~     PzS -3i                          pyn 
-         TQB i1EURNED TO REPORTS DEI)7
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BAI'NK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1364a-KE
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KENYA TEA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
May 1, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CUR-iDR4Y EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =     Kenya Shilling (KSh)
US$1             =     KSh7.1
KS                     IJ- 1Js2.80
Fiscal Year (Government) July 1 to June 30
UNIT'S OF VALUATTON
The official unit of currency in Kenya
is the Kenya Sihilling (Sho)
i 1            Sh= ho 20
bh 1     =     100 cents



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
KENYA TEA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on-a proposed
loan to the Kenya Tea Development Authority (KTDA) with the guarantee of
the Republic of Kenya for the equivalent of US$10.4 million to help finance
the Authority's program for building and equipping of factories to process
tea already planted under KTDA's programs up to 1971/72. The loan would be
for twenty years, including seven years of grace, at an interest rate of
7-1/4%. In addition to the Bank's loan, external financing wo~ild also be
provided by the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), wh:ch would lend
KTDA $6.3 million, with the same amortization terms as the Bank's but at an
interest rate of 5%. KTDA would on-lend the funds thus provided to companies
it wculd establish to construct and manage the factories under the program.
The companies would repay KTDA over a period of 16 years including three
years of grace at an interest rate of 7-3/4%.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Second Decade: A Basic Economic Report on
Kenya" (Report No. 201-KE, dated January 15, 1974) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 20, 1974. An agricultural sector survey on
Kenya (Report No. 254-KE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
March 13, 1974. A special economic mission visited Kenya in February 1974
to review the economy's prospects and aid requirements in the light cf the
changes in commodity prices including increased oil prices. Country data
sheets are attached in Annex I.
3.        Kenya has recently celebrated the end of the first decade of
Independence. In looking back over the period, Kenya's achievements are
notable. On taking power at the end of 1963, the Government inherited a
difficult challenge. While Kenya was already rather more developed than many
newly independent African nations, the dualistic nature of the economy, which
concentrated much of the wealth within the European and Asian communities,
tended to overshadow the underlying poverty of the mass of the African people.
In 1963 the per capita income in Kenya was around L30 or $85 a year.   But the
per capita income of the African population was probably no more than $50 a
year, and poverty in the rural areas, where 90 percent of the population
lived, was as serious in Kenya as in most African countries.
4.        In terms of overall growth, Kenyals economic performance since
Independence has been impressive in almost all respects. During the period
since 1964, GDP has grown at an average rate of about 7% in real terms,
which has allowed significant gains in per capita income despite the high
population growth rate. Average per capita income in 1972 had risen to
$170, which is about the median for African countries. This growth rate has
been triggered by a high and growing rate of investment in both the private



and public sectors. In recent years, fixed capital formation has accounted
f'or over 25% of monetary GDP, which is an exceptionally high investment rate.
However, this has inevitably put a strain on Kenyats economic resource base,
and subsequently on the balance of payments, clespite the fact that Kenya's
domestic savings rate (19-20%) is one of the highest in the developing world.
5.        The Government's fiscal and monetary management has been one of the
factors responsible for the generally sound performance of the economy.
On the fiscal side, the public sector's performance has been very good.
In 1964, Kenya had a recurrent budget deficit, a relatively insiginificant
development budget and depended heavily on external aid. Since then, by
virtue of its increasing tax effort and disciplined control on spending, the
Government has (i) converted its recurrent def'icit into a substantial surplus
(which in 1970/71 accounted for 23% of all national savings), (ii) expanded
its development budget at an average rate of 27% a year, and (iii) considerably
reduced its relative dependence on external aid. The fact that Kenya achieved
these results with only negligible internal inflation and without resorting
to expensive forms of external financing makes this performance even more
notable.
6.        While Kenyats performance in sustaining a fast rate of overall
growth over the past ten years has been very good, some aspects of development
have been less satisfactory, and several important issues inevitably emerge
as Kenya prepares to embark upon the second decade of development. The
Government, the recent ILO/UNDP Report and the Bank have all agreed that the
most worrying aspect of Kenya's past performance has been the failure to
distribute the benefits of development as widely as the Government would like
and, in particular, the growing unemployment and the continuing poverty. It
is easy to criticize progress in distributing the benefits of development,
and always possible, in retrospect, to suggest a somewhat diffierent set of
policies. But no one pretends that there are any quick or easy solutions to
rural poverty, the growing pressure on the urban areas or the unemployed
school leavers. The fact that the Government requested the ILO to undertake
a major mission and has, after careful consideration, accepted the general
strategy of the ILO's innovative report, is evidence of a commitment to wider
distribution.
7.        In looking towards the ensuing decade, the Bank has concluded that
the first prerequisite for launching a more effective attack on unemployment
and rural poverty is to maintain or even increase the past rate of growth.
However, a number of indicators suggest that it may be more dif-ficult for Kenya
to maintain the mormentum achieved in the past without some significant
adjustments in the pattern of development and the style of management.
Capital-output ratios, while still reasonably low on the average, have been
rising, both household and public savings show some sign of levelling off,
and the increasing resource gap has put pressure on the balance of payments.
8.        In several respects, therefore, Kenya rrmay be at a turning point
in her development and will need to determine how the economy can be made
to perform more efficiently.   In part the problem arises from ,he very success
of Kenya's past performance: for example, the domestic savings rate and tax
efforts have been so good that there may be little room for improvement.
But the position is also partly due to the fact that by the end of the first
decade Kenya had accomplished many of the more obvious and easy tasks, and



- 3-
that the future planning and management of the economny must inevitabJy be
more complex. Thus, in agriculture, the impetus provided to the sector by
the major programs of land transfer and settlement is slackening, and future
development will have to give more emphasis to the difficult task of increasing
productivity and employment among the smallholders, many of whom live on
holdings which seemto be too small or in marginal production areas. Similarly,
in manufacturing, the process of replacing imports, often at high cost, by
encouraging foreign investment, has reached the point of diminishing returns
and Kenya is having to devise a whole new set of measures designed to make
manufacturers competitive in export markets and to foster small business in
which African entrepreneurs can develop and prosper.
9.        Thus, in looking to the future, the Bank has recommended a shift in
emohasis away from investment in infrastructure, a slower growth of expenditure
on social services and a larger allocation of resources to the directly product-
ive sectors. The major emphasis of the recent economic report was on
agriculture and resource-based manufacturing. Agriculture and related
manufacturing use resources more "efficiently" than other sectors in creating
incomes and employment, in conserving scarce capital and skilled manpower,
in redistributing income, in generating foreign exchange and perhaps even in
stimulating savings. Moreover, in the context of Kenya, the possible policy
dilemma of having to "trade-off" growth against employment (and income
distribution) does not seem to arise since both growth and equity goals can
be achieved through restructuring the pattern of growth in favor of the
directly productive sectors. Rising import prices and the increased cost of
fuel are likely to encourage greater use of Kenya's most valuable domestic
resources - land and labor.
10.       In manufacturing, it appears that while Kenya may well have a
comparative advantage in agriculture-based processing, the protection given
to import substitution industries has not only encouraged the establishment
of some inefficient industries and discouraged exports by distorting input
prices, but has discriminated against agriculture. Import incentives for
efficient resource allocation may result from the incipient moves towards
uniform tariffs and incentives for exports which the Kenyan authorities are
already contemplating in collaboration with the other two Partner States of
the East African Community.
11.       But restructuring growth is not easy, in any country, and Kenya
will face a number of particular problems of her own. The first is to
create the appropriate environment of price and other incentives to induce
the private sector to develop rapidly and make better use of the resources
available to it. A second problem Kenya faces is the capacity of the public
sector to accelerate growth in the preferred sectors, particularly in
agriculture. The problem is, of course, largely one of skilled manpower,
and it is clear that Kenya's development potential will continue to be
curtailed by the scarcity of skills for a long time. The recent basic
economic report and the agricultural sector survey have both emphasized the
problem of low absorptive capacity in agriculture. For industry, the dearth
of managerial skills adversely affects small-scale business development and
hinders efforts to screen new large-scale industrial projects. Much of the
Bank's assistance to Kenya is aimed directly or indirectly at helping to
overcome these constraints.



12.       Tn adopting its new development plan, covering the period 1974-78, the
Kenya Government has already taken an important step towards initiating the kind
of economnc reforms we have noted. However, following the recent increases in oil
prices and the expected rise in the cost of other imports, the ambitious targets
of the plan may have to be reduced, and some adjustments will need to be made to
the investment program. Preliminary estimates made by the Bank staff indicate that
the net additional cost of oil to the Kenya economy in 1974 will be around $68 mil-
lion, and that, taking into account the anticipated cost increases in other imports,
Kenya may face a residual external financing gap of about $200 million in 1975.
(This figure, which is larger than the estimate previously given to the Board,
reflects revised projections following the special economic mission referred to
in para. 2 above.) The Kenya Government, in close cooperation with the Bank, has
already started to draw up an emergency program to deal with the new situation.
The likely components of this program are reinstitution of import controls and a
curtailment of development efforts in the short-term, together with an accelerated
move towards restructuring the pattern of long-term growth. The initial response
of Government has been positive and realistic, and the new stringencies imposed
on the economy by the rapid deterioration in the term8 of trade will probably
accelerate some of the necessary long-term economic reforms. But, if the momentum
achieved in development is not to be too severely curtailed, the Kenya economy
will need additional external capital during the next few years of adjustment.   Much
of this will have to be on concessionary terms, and some non-project assistance will
probably be required towards the end of 1974 according to preliminary forecasts of
the balance of payments position. The particular problems facing Kenya in the
short term, together with wider developments over the 197h-78 Plan period, were
discussed at the April 1974 meeting on Kenya of the Consultative Group for East
Africa, chaired by the Bank. The members of the Group accepted the severity of
Kenya's problems, and agreed to give careful consideration to the country's special
needs,
13.        Kenya's outstanding external debt increased from $258 million at the end
of 1963 to $51C million at the end of 1972, of which $353 million had been disbursed.
Thus, since Independence, Kenya has accumulated external debts at abcut 8 percent a
year, or only slightly faster than the average rate of growth of GDP. About 35% of
total external debt is now held by the Bank Group (more or less equally divided be-
tween IBRD and IDA), but because IBRD lending has only recently becone a significant
proportion of Kenya's debt, debt service to the Bank Group in 1973 was still less
than 10% of all debt service payments, for the same reason, the Bank Group's share
is expected to rise in future. In addition to its own external public debt, Kenya
is also jointly responsible, together with the other two Partner States, for the debts
incurred by the East African Community and its institutions, which amounted to some
$216.0 million (outstanding including undisbursed) in September 1972. If a notional
one-third of the Commimity's total debt is allocated to each Partner State, Kenya's
debt service burden is increased by roughly a quarter, but still represents less than
61 of her foreign exchange earnings.
14.        At the present time, Kenya's debt service burden is comparatively light,
and creditworthiness presents no obstacle to additional borrowing. However, the
receint increases in the cost of oil and other imports, on which Kenya's future devel-
opment depends, make it difficult to project the likely evolution of the burden of
debt or to assess Kenya's creditworthiness in the future. As indicated above, the
new situation increases quite considerably both the immediate external financing prob-
-em and the motivation to adopt long-term corrective measures.   The ultimate impact on
Kenya's debt service burden will therefore depend on the extent and terms on which the
necessary addituonal financing can be obtained and the speed with which longer term
reforms can be `nstituted. The Bank staff will be giving priority to these questions
during the comfirg months.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP LENDING TO KENYA
15.        Kenya has to date received nine Bank loans and fourteen IDA credits
amounting to $129.0 million and $98.7 million, respectively. In addition, Kenya
has been one of the beneficiaries of ten loans totalling $229.8 million which have
been extended for the development of common se:vices (railways, ports, telecommuni-
cations and finance for industry) operated reg:;onally for the three Partner States
of the East African Community -- Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. Annex II contains
summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya and the East African
Community organizations, a summary of IFC investments in Kenya, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
16.        Ongoing projects in Kenya are on the whole progressing satisfactorily,
but manpower constraints in engineering and other technical fields continue to pre-
sent problems and have slowed down progress on some projects. Because of the
difficulties in attracting qualified expertise, no immediate remedy can be expected;
however, the gradual increase in suitably trained Kenyans to fill such positions
should eventually alleviate these problems.
17.        Most of the Bank Group's direct lending to Kenya in the past has been
for infrastructure, particularly transportation and power, although other sectors
such as agriculture and forestry, education and water supply have also received sup-
port, We intend in the future to give greater emphasis to agriculture and other
directly productive sectors, particularly for projects which are likely to bring more
immediate benefits to large numbers of people and will, as much as possible, increase
Kenya's foreign exchange earnings. With such objectives in mind, the Bank agreed
witlh the Government on a program for expanding the Bank's technical assistance in
agriculture, beginning with the agricultural sector survey that was mounted in late
1972. We have offered an expanded program of assistance in project identification
through the Regional Mission in Eastern Africa, and have provided a senior agricul-
tural advisor to assist the Government in charting a longer-term strategy for the
agricultural sector.
18.        This expanded technical assistance is starting to show results.  A pro-
posed IDA credit of $21.5 million, with complementary financing likely from Canada,
the United Kingdom and the United States, for a second livestock project which covers
a five-year beef development program calling for a total investment of $52 million,
has been negotiated and will soon be submitted for consideration by the Executive
Directors. Preparatory work is under way for a diversified smallholder production
project for the drier areas of eastern Kenya,'an irrigation project in the Lower Tana
River Basin, and for a project to rehabilitate the currently underutilized large com-
mercial farms in the high potential areas. While these results of our joint efforts
are encouraging, they are only a beginning. To support adequately the development of
agriculture and the rural areas of Kenya will require sustained efforts. The Govern-
ment has now studied both the Agriculture Sector Survey and the Basic Economic Report
and largely agrees with their conclusions. The Bank and the Government have discussed
how best we can support accelerated agricultural development during Kenya's 1974- 8
Plan period. Apart from assisting project preparation in agriculture, we foresee the
need for complementary development of rural infrastructurep We have therefore held
preliminary discussions on programs for development of rural water supply and rural
access roads.



-6-
19.        Concarrently with efforts to promote thie development of the rural
economy, substantial investment will continue to be required to keep public
services abreast of economic growth. A Bank loan of $5.0 million to the Indus-
trial Development Bank was signed on November 29, 1973, and a $12.) million IDA
credit to assist Kenya's much-needed family planning program was signed on April
1, 1974. Wde also expect to continue financing key infrastructure projects.   A
$29.0 million loan to finance the construction of trunk, feeder arLd other roads
was signed on September 6, 1973. To provide a more efficient and economic means
of moving increasing volumes of petroleum products from Mombasa to Nairobi, an
oil pipeline project is under preparation. A power project to keetp pace with
Kenya's rapidly growing demands and a water supply project to alleviate water
shortages in Mombasa are now being prepared. And as a first attempt to accomo-
date squatters in Nairobi with suitable housing, a sites and services project
with an upgrading component is expected to be appraised later this year.
20.       Although no projects are planned in the near future for the common
services organizations of the East African Community, the Bank, through its
supervision missions of ongoing operations, is discussing further assistance for
telecommunications, industry and port development. Additional loans to the East
African Railways Corporation, however, will have to await resolution of the
financial and operational problems being encountered by that Corporation. The
main operational problems consist of an inadequate tariff structure, inefficient
use of rolling stock, and differences between the Partner States about how the
railways should be managed. The financial problems stem partly from these oper-
ational difficulties, but more directly from the recent failure of the regional
offices of the railways to remit funds to headquarters. As a consequence of
this failure, debt service payments by the Corporation to the Bank under Loan
428-EA are now overdue. The Bank has pressed the Corporation for payment and
has called upon the Partner States as Guarantors of the loan to make these pay-
ments if the Corporation is unable to do so. Pending receipt of payment, dies-
bursements under Loan 674-EA, the latest loan to the railways, have been suspended.
21.       In addition to Bank and IDA activities, IFC has investments totalling
$24.1 million in three enterprises in Kenya: $15.8 million in the Panafrican
Paper Mills, Ltd.; $5.9 million in Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; and $2.4
million in Tourism Promotion Services, Ltd. (Kenya).
PART III - AGRICULTURE IN KENYA
22.       Agriculture is the most important sector of the Kenya economy.   It
provides the livelihood of some 11 million people (over 90% of the total
population), generates over 60% of foreign exchange earnings and contributes over
30% of GDP.    Agricultural production also contributes significantly to industrial
activity by providing commodities for processing; and increasing cash crop
production is widening the rural market for manufactured goods.
23.       Kenyan agriculture embraces outdated techniques and low productivity
as well as highly developed agricultural technology. Widely ranging types of
climate, soil and topography produce a very diverse pattern of land utilization
and cropping. Although Kenya has a relatively large land mass (583,000 km2),
only about 16% of this total is classified as of medium or high agricultural
potential. Within this small area, population pressure is high and rising.
Agricultural activity is concentrated mainly in the southwestern quadrant of the
country. There are about 3,000 medium to large farms still remaining in Kenya,



-7-
and approximately 1.2 million small farms, about half of which are less than
two hectares in size.' Many farms are still at a subsistence level, and some
rural households are facing extremely hard conditions, particularly those in the
less favored areas and on very small holdings. However, perhaps 30% of rural
families are now established commercial farmers, using an increasing amount of
improved seed, fertilizer and other inputs. These smallholdings are now the
largest single source of employment in Kenya.
?4.        Subsistence produce, consumed directly by farmers and their families,
makes up over 50% of total agricultural output. Corn (maize) is the major sub-
sistence crop, although it is produced on a commercial basis as well. Other
subsistence crops include millet, cassava, yams, peas, beans, potatoes, plantains
and bananas. Commercial production for export focuses on coffee, tea, sisal,
pyrethrum and wattle, although cashew nuts, pineapples, castor beans, coconuts and
wool are becoming increasingly important. Wheat, rice, sugar and cotton are pro-
duced largely as cash crops but are almost totally consumed within the country.
Meat and dairy products continue to be significant in subsistence agriculture, and
a growing proportion of the livestock produced is marketed domestically or exported.
25.        Before 1950 the commercial sector of agriculture was largely confined to
the area of European settlements, but increasing African participation in the market
economy has eradicated the historical dichotomy whereby European farming was for the
market while African farming was for subsistence. Even the distinction between
J-.rge and small units of production no longer serves as the dividing line between
cash and subsistence sectors, as many small farmers are now producing crops for sale
-s - ;l as for their own consumption, and many of the large farms and estates are in
-'act operated as cooperatives or "company" farms in multiple ownership.
'6.        Although its direct involvement in agriculture is small, mainly limited
o the production of improved seed and breeding stock through the Agricultural Devel-
Doment Corporation, the Government indirectly affects nearly every aspect of agri-
ulture. It is committed to increasing and diversifying export crop production,
raising subsistence levels and cash incomes of farmers and attaining agricultural
self-sufficiency. Agricultural development is controlled and guided by an elaborate
and complex network of government organizations and semi-public bodies that establish
many of the conditions under which production takes place. The Ministry of Agriculture
is primarily concerned with setting overall policy including pricing policy, and pro-
viding general support services, such as research, extension and training, It also
exercises control over a wide range of specialized production and marketing boards and
agencies, including the Kenya Tea Development Authority. Other ministries such as
Lands and Settlement, Cooperatives and Social Services, Tourism and Wildlife, Natural
Resources and Works are responsible fox other aspects of policy in the agricultural
sector.
27.        Although impressive progress has been made over the last decade, especially
in the introduction of cash crops into the smallholder sector, the recent basic eco-
nomic report has suggested that agricultural development needs to be accelerated still
further to help alleviate three particularly sensitive and critical problems: poverty,
unemployment, and emerging constraints on the balance of payments.
28.        While comparative statistic:; of per capita income indicate that Kenya has
developed further than many of her neighbors, the impression of relative prosperity
conveyed by such figures is partly illusory0 The relatively poor rural pop lation
is ten times larger than the relatively well-off urban population. Average rural
income has been estimated as being under $60 per head, and, even within the rural
sector, disparities are great. Most rural dwellers live at subsistence levels, and
many of them still have only limited access to health care and education.



-8-
K.         Nleanuvihile, Kenya's present economic structure is hard preMssed to
. - t - r.-ra dly increasing labor force, and agriculture-based rural
oumze ,.rmn; is crucial in alleviating the serious unemployment problem.  Rural
^lo&reT:lt. is h-,mpered b- a growing scarci.ty of good land, rapid population
L,JtI a.ndcl thIr difficult- of settling landless people across tribal boundaries.
'inally, recent adverse trends in world marklets, exacerbated by the
o-  er-s-s, have mace it all the rmore important for Kenya to expand the foreign
e .tfl angeea :n'.ns required tc support her amqbitious development efforts. While
'-.ena is making every effort to explore alternatives for export, the countrauy will
nertnle to (-epenfd very heavily on increased earnings from agriculture, especially
o or, tnt wc rmajor ex-vo rt crops -- tea and coffee -- which together account for
about L   of merchandise export earnings.
The Bank Group's strategy for the agricultural sector is designed to
concepntrate assistance on these priority problems. The recent agriculture sector
slPnre>, ron  t s-uggests that agricultural development will determine in large mea-
sure the welfare of the economy as a whole for many years to come.   Smallholder
olc tJ:ionn in particular, needs special encouragement, including help from the
nn','-runont anu its parastatal organizations in planning and implementing prograrms
- ¢ lUpm de- development.
32.        oen-a's tea industry is playing a major part in alleviating the problems
O?tr)uneo. above.  t is helping to reduce rural unemployment by introducing increas-
'n1 nurvoc's cn growers into a very labor-intensive activity; it is helping to reduce
povert-- bg p' oviding growers with a cash income above the average they could expect
to ga'In <'or ot'-er crops; and it is earning valuable foreign exchange.  About 85%X of
' t2a   Which commands a premium on world markets, is exported.  Ex,ports averaged
l-,T:'.lion c' ,vear, 15p of total exports, over the 1964-70 period; and since 1970 tea
)-, -p ced tO be the Most rapidly expanding source of foreign exchange, despite fall-
.I.-" '   f,ly e0s.
33.        Kenya's tea is grown in a relatively small area.   The area is densely
populated, containing an estimated 1.5 million people. Other cash crops have
been successful to only a limited extent in the area; moreover, tea combines
comparatively high labor requirements with relatively better returns to farmers
than alternative crops. Tea farming, therefore, represents a particularly useful
means of increasing the incomes of this large rural population. At the same
time, however, there is a limit to which planting can profitably be expanded
over the longer term, owing to the present and projected weakness of the world
tea market.
Smallholder Tea Development
34.        Tea production was first established in Kenya in the 1920s on estates
under expatriate management.   The main thrust in recent years has, however, been
towards the development of smallholder tea -- grown on relatively small plots by



-9-
largeq numbers of individual growers. The program has been outstandingly successful.
By tile completion in 1963-64 of the first plan of the Kenya Tea Development Au-
thority (KTDA) which administered the program, nearly 20,000 growers had planted
4,200 hectares of tea. The second plan, completed in 1967-68, established a fur-
ther 18,000 growers on 6,600 hectares. The third plan, completed in 1971-72, added
27,000 more growers and 13,000 hectares to the smallholder tea program. Including
nearly 1,800 smallholders and 1,h00 hectares of land which had been planted with
tea independently under settlement schemes, the total number of smallholder growers
reached nearly 67,000 and the hectares under cultivation totaled 25,900 by the end
of the third plan.  The average size of holdings at this time was about 0i4 hectares,
with production expected to average 1,300 kg. of made tea per hectare at riaturity.
Tea bushes do not produce significant output for processing into made tea until about
four years after plantirng, and do not reach maturity until about their tenth year.
Therefore, much of the tea planted under the KTDA's past smallholder programs is only
now beginning to become ready for processing or will become so during the coming years0
35.        The remarkable expansion of smallhclder tea growing under KTDAts programs
is clearly shown in the transformation it has achieved in the structure of the tea
industry: the smallholder (as opposed to estate) area planted with tea rose from 4%
of the total in 1958 to 56% in 1971/72. Each KTDA Plan has either exceeded its target
or been completed ahead of schedule.
The Kenya Tea Development Authority (KTDA)
36.        The KTDA is an autonomous public authority established by statute to pro-
mote smallholder tea development. Controlled by a Board of Directors which includes
:epresentatives of Government and growers, it has sole responsibility for the small-
holder progran. It provides a complete, integrated service to growers: issuing
lanting licenses, providing planting materials, credit, extension services,
.armers' training, and leaf inspection and collection at centers so located that
no grower has to transport his leaf more than 5 kilometers from his holding. It
has successfully introduced vegetative propagation, a process whereby new bushes
can be grown with cuttings from existing ones.
37.       The Authority charges a levy, known as a cess, on green tea delivered by
smallholders. This charge covers the bulk of KTDA's operating expenses and debt
service costs. KTDA has received loans from the Federal Republic of Germany, and the
United Kingdom's Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) together with two IDA
credits (Nos. 64-KE and 119-KE) made to the Kenya Government and on-lent to KTDA.
These credits were made to support the second and third plans. Owing to over-
estimates of the costs of KTDA's services to growers and some under-estimates of
the amounts of tea to be produced by smallholders, KTDA's need for funds turned
out to be substantially lower than expected. Consequently, less than 60% of the
finance available under the two credits was disbursed; the remaining amounts
were cancelled.



- 0 -
38.        The evide.-t efficiency of KTHA's operations stems from a number of
..;^ctors  Perha-s thie lnost important is that the Authority has integrated all
services, including extension and credit, under uniformly excellent management.
Another is that the growers' representatives not only sit on the Board of Direc-
tors but also narticipate in decision-making at all levels.   Other factors include
the hi`'; c-.libre of' the Authority's staff (made possible in part by its ability to
p<l' sala.es abcve general government levels), its financial self-sufficiency and
st rlct (ualit-, control, -whichi has ensured that the price of Kenya tea has exceeded
;v,-ePrae world market nrices in every year since !965.
39.        The successes of the past years, and the social and economic benefits
flowing from them, led KTDA to formulate a Fourth Plan which would further increase
smallholder numbers (to 100,000) and the area under cultivation (to 45,000 hectares).
The Co:inonwealth Development Corporation is expected to provide funds to assist
KTDA with this program.  The Authority also proposed to undertake a rajor program
of factory building and management, to provide processing capacity for both tea
planted under previous Plans and now coming to maturity and new tea to be planted
under the proposed Fourth Plan.
.o'a .iacuorzes
ho.        KTDA's orerat'ons to date have been principally directed towards the
expansJion of tea growing rather than the operation of tea processing facilities.  The
relatively long maturation period of tea bushes has meant that a major program to
establish mrocessing facilities for smallholder tea is only now begimning to become
necessir;.- imurt*hermore, of the 12 KTDA factories currently in operation, only two are
direc'ly Managed by KTDA; management of the remaining 10 is undertaken by commercial
ccmpanies uncder management agreements.
41.        Thie new program is an ambitious one, requiring a major expansion of KTDA's
-.ctav-i  es. it calls for the construction, equipment and operation of 37 factories
between 1l73-74 and 1980-81, each with an annual capacity of 1,200 tons of made tea.
Ti' th.ese 37 f'actories, 18 are requirecl for the processing of tea already planted and
nowi- comi.ng to raturity, while the remainder will be needed to process tea to be
-l.anted under the proposed Fourth Plan.  With the additi.on to its existing activities
o. direct resnonsibility for pr-ocessing tea, KTDA will organize the complete cycle of
n-oduct in fCrom plantinig to output of the f-inished product.
PAiRT TV - THE PROJECT
.B.ackg,round
42.        As already noted, IDA had helped to finance plantings under KTDA's second
an(. thirdi plans.  -'nen KTDA formulated its Fourth Plan, the Bank and the Commonwealth
bevelopsient Corporation (CDC) were approached by the Government of Kenya for help in
f'nac'.- elements of this new program.   An appraisal mission visited. Kenya in November/
Deccmb-: 1'7. to ela.mine the proposed program and concluded that it would be reasonable
icr the Dlana Groun to help finance pa.rt of it.  At about the same time, however, the
!a)!- was examining- the problems facecd by countries relyin.7 heavily on earnings from
ecxnovt commod-ot.eo. facing inelastic demand. Among the commodities considered in the
-ourse o' this e.xar-ination was tea.  Detailed studies of future tea market prospects
showcd that the rate of growth of de!-mand for tea was likely to be very slow, and to be
e_,xecded bD-Y.- tie ,ate of growth of supply, and that f'utuire additional plantings would



have an adverse effect on world tea prices and on the foreign exchange earnings
of producers in the developing countries as a group. Consequently, it was
decided that it would, in general, be inappropriate for the Bank Group to finance
new plantings. Therefore, the project for which a loan is now proposed is
confined to financing factoriee to process tea planted under the earlier KTDA
programs.
43.        Negotiations for the proposed project were held in Washington in January
1974. The Kenya delegation was headed by Mr. Justus Ndoto, Deputy Secretary, Minis-
try of Agriculture. Representatives of the Commonwealth Development Corporation
(CDC) participated in the negotiations. A report entitled "Kenya - Appraisal of the
Tea Factory Project" (No. 311a-KE dated April 5, 1974) is being circulated separately.
A Loan and Project Summary is provided in Annex III.
Description of the Project
44.         The proposed project would help finance the construction and equipment of
17 tea factories, each with an annual capacity of 1,200 tons of made tea, over the
period 1974/75 to 1979/80, to process already planted tea; and the establishment of
factory management, training, tea marketing, and other services within KTDA. The
tea factories would process tea already established in 11 districts in the tea grow-
ing areas of Kenya. The project would be carried out by KTDA, and the factories
would be directly managed by KTDA, with the assistance of consultants as required.
KTTA would provide the Bank with detailed plans, specifications and contract doc.meinrs
for each factory for its approval before construction.
Organization and Operations
45.        Under present arrangements KTDA helps smallholders establish and cultivate
their tea plots, collects green leaf and transports it to the local tea factory. &ach
smallholder is paid once a month for his leaf by KTDA after deduction by the factory
of its estimated operating costs, debt servicing requirements and fixed dividends
payable, and after deduction! by KTDA of a service fee, the "cess" mentioned in para-
graph 37. This monthly return to the farmer is known as his "first payment".    Once
a year) farmers receive a "isecond payment" based on the factories' actual costs and
the prices realized by them from sales of made tea.   Factories are established as soon
as a minimum economic throughput from the adjacent area is assured.   New factories,
however, tend initially to have a smaller throughput of tea, and hence higher costs
and lower profits for distribution to growers than long-established ones. KTDA has
therefore adopted the practice of temporarily "evening out" payments to growers ser-
viced by new factories in order to bring their incomes reasonably close to the incomes
of those serviced by long-established ones. These arrangements would broadly contin-
ue under the proposed project.
46.         The 17 factories to be established under the project would each be set up
as a separate limited company.  KTDA would initially be the sole shareholder in each
factory company.  It would always retain a controlling shareholding, but growers wouild
be represented from the start on each company's board of directors and would be en-
couraged to buy shares. KTDA would act as managing agent for each factory company,
providing services for design, supervision of construction and management, and wculd
charge a fee of KSb. 0.16 per kg. of made tea for these services. The Bank would be
consulted before any change in this fee.



- 12 -
47.      To undertake its responsibilites under the project, threle new depart-
ments would be set up within KTDA: (i) a Factory Department, headed by a Chief
Factory Officer, to undertake factory construction and maintenance (under the
direction of a Factory Engineer), to supervise tea manufacture (under the direc-
tion of a Factory Superintendent), and to train factory managers (lnder the
direction of a Training Officer); (ii) a Marketing Department, headed by a Market-
ing Officer, to test and evaluate tea, prepare marketing strategy, arrange the
flow of tea to markets and provide advice to KTDA factories; and (:Lii) a Secretary's
Department, headed by a qualified Secretary, to keep minutes of factory company
meetings, file returns required by law, supervise share transfers and maintain
registers. Suitable candidates for the posts of Chief Factory Officer, Factory
Engineer, Factory Superintendent, Training Officer and Marketing Officer would be
appointed within six months of loan effectiveness. If suitable candidates could
not be found within this period, KTDA woulld appoint consultants to fill them.
KTDA would consult the Bank before making appointments to the posts of Chief
Factory Officer and Marketing Officer. The loan also provides for consultants to
assist KTDA, if necessary, in setting up the new departments, in recruiting staff,
in providing supporting technical services, and in undertaking a study of the most
appropriate form of factory design and equipment and tea manufacture. All consul-
tants would be appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Agree-
ment by KTDA to the above is reflected in schedule 5 to the draft Loan Agreement.
48.       A factory accounts section would be set up in KTDA's existing Accounting
Department. KTDA maintains adequate records for a comprehensive evaluation of the
project, which would be undertaken promptly upon its completion, and provision
has been made in the loan for consultants to help analyze relevant information if
necessary. It has been agreed that KTDA will, by June 30, 1975, introduce a cost
accounting system satisfactory to the Bank (section 5.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
490       The total cost of the project net of taxes and duties would be $20.8
million.  Of this total about $10.9 million would be for foreign exchange expen-
ditures and the remainder would be for local costs.   The Bank's $10.4 million
loan and CDC's $6.3 million loan would cover all foreign exchange costs and $5.8
million of domestic costs; a Government loan would cover remaining domestic
costs ($4.1 million net).
50.       It is proposed that the Bank's loan cover part of the domestic cost of
the project as well as about 60% of foreign costs. As can be seen from the analysis
in the Basic Economic Report, Kenya will face a severe gap in the r(esources required
to carry out its new five-year development plan. The recent increases in petroleum
prices will widen this gap.   It is, therefore, justified to provide external
resources to cover not only the foreign cost of the projeict but part of the domestic
cost as well.
51.       The Bank loan would finance 50 percent of costs and CDC's loan a further
30 percent, bringing external financing to 80 percent of the total.   The Bank loan
would bear interest at 714 percent, and would have a maturity of 20 years including
seven years of grace; the loan would be made direct to KTDA with the guarantee
of the Republic of Kenya. CDC's loan would have the same repayment schedule as
the Bank's, but would bear interest at 5 percent. The Gove-nnent's loan would also
have the same repayment schedule, but would be at an interest rate of 6½ percent.
KTDA would use about 5 percent of the proceeds of the three loans to buy shares
in factory companies, and would relend the remainder to cornanies at 7-3/4 percent
for 16 years including three year-s of grace.



- 13 -
52.       The seven year period of grace proposed for the loans to KTDA is
geared to the financial requirements of the project and the fact that disburse-
ments will not be completed until 1980. The new departments to be set up in
KTDA will have to be established at once, and their costs will only gradually
be recovered as factory companies start to pay KTDA management fees and debt
service on sub-loans. The factories themselves will be built over a five-year
period, with the last factories being constructed only in 1978/79 and not
beginning to repay their debts to KTDA until 1981/82.
Procurement and Disbursement
53.       Vehicles, factory buildings, plant and equipment where contracts exceeded
$30,000 would be procured by international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank/IDA guidelines; orders would be bulked where appropriate. For some small
orders below $30,000 where international competitive bidding would be time-consumirig,
costly and unlikely to attract international tenders, arrangements would be made
as follows: contracts costing between $10,000 and $30,000 would be placed after
competitive bidding on the basis of local advertising; contracts costing less than
$10,000 would be placed on the basis of quotations from local suppliers. A local
suppliers' preference of 15%, or the existing rate of import duties for competing
imports, whichever is lower, would be applied for the purpose of bid evaluation,
as would a 7r  preference for domestic civil works contractors.   To ensure tleir
being ready on time, work on the first four factories in the Meru, Kisii, Kirin-
yaga, and Kericho Districts has already begun, contracts having been awarded in
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.  Retroactive financing of up to $0.4 million,
-epresenting the Bank's share of costs incurred for these factories' construction
and equipment since January 1, 1974, is recommended.
54.       Disbursements will be made by the Bank and CDC jointly in the ratio 5:3.
Administrative arrangements for coordinating disbursements have been agreed
between the Bank and CDC. Bank disbursements would be made against 51% of total
expenditure for vehicles, factory construction equipment and working capital, and
management and training services. Estimated annual disbursements are shown in
Annex III.
Project Benefits and Rate of Return
55.       It is estimated that in 1979/80, when all 17 factories are planned to
be in operation, the factories woull process about 19,000 tons of made tea, of
which 85% would be exported, with a gross foreign exchange value of $18.0 million
a year (basecd on 1980 forecast tea prices at London auctions of 34 new pence/kg.
made tea in 1973 constant terms). As a result of the project, new employment would
be provided for 2,000 workers. It would enable 35,000 growers to obtain, at
maturity of their plantings, an average annual income of KSh. 1,300 after all
payments to KTDA, which is appreciably more than they could obtain from the pro-
duction of other crops in the tea areas. The economic rate of return on the project
is estinated to be 24%, assuming a shadow rate of foreign exchange of Ksh. 10 per dollar
and a shadow price of labor of 50% of the daily wage rate of KSh. 4.00. Without
the shadow rate of foreign exchange the project's rate of return would be 17%; with
no shadow rating of foreign exchange or labor the rate of return would be 10p.



PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMETS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Kenya Tea Develop-
ment Authority, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and
the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approving the
proposed Loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Features of the Loan Agreement of special interest are referred to in paras. 47
and 48 of this report. Otherwise, the draft Agreements conform to the normal
pattern for loans for agriculture processing projects of this kind.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNanara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 1, 1974



Ann exI
fljrrurrpbgeff
oDUNTRY DATA - KEN4YA
AREA                                                   POPUJLATION                                    DENsirY
¶TTThwj   lani-- 171.7 million (mid-1971)                                                                   31    Per exi
Per helof trble lend
SOCIAL INDICATOlRS
Reference Countriese
GN? PER CAPITA 13$ (AT-AS BASIS) /'.I                                                 150           2,270             100          340
IPEMC'EA1JPH!C
Crude bIrth rate (per thousand)                                      50 /a            8              16              47           54
Crude death rate (per thousan,d)                                     20 Ta          16               11              21           10)
Infant eortality rate (per thoues,,d live births)                    ...19 /b                                    160.165 In       70 /d
Life ex,pectany at birth (years)                                   4o-   A          I49              72              43           59
Dross reproduction rate /2                                                          3.3             1.3             3.2          3.1
Poultion grwt    raen                                                                            c. 6            2.7          3.2
Population growth rate - urban                                      ..7 /e.f                        0.5               7            5 Li
Age elutur..   (percnt)
I-lI.                                            iI/h,i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5  lb /b  24            45           57
15-61                                            ~~~~~~      ~   ~~~~~            ~~~~~                 ~     ~~~~51/  I   ssTh  63  53  50
i5 ac- oe                                                           3              574             13               3            3
Dvco   at.io IL.                                                             1.2 74.3j        0.8            1.1 /Ik       1.7
frouc. c,pastiocas percot of tctai                                8 I/fh        10 /b.f          78              6 Ic         56 Li
fo.s;ly  acct.cs:No of acceptors cumulative (thou..)           ....                                                         316
Nc. of users (% of married women)...
Total1:c     f.r-   (thousando)                                     ..5,100 L',j                 25,200           5,800        6,200
Percetaga   -sPicyod is agricultur                                .90 /b.J                          3              91           41
I110M4 liJITRiciflIb
Porcnt of ncutioca1 incom    rece...ived by highest 5%              4..                              ..                            0
Porc-o   of cutic-ul i-oc    receiedby highest 20%*                                  ...*                                         68
Percat of c-ti-1ai- incom    received by lowest 20%                 .......2
P-ro-t of o.tic... I   oons receivd hy lowet h0%                     .. 
DhTIAIIuiIoN OF LAND OWNEIRSHIP
I owned by top, ION of -ecre
owoa.d by coral1-t iO% of owners
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Population per peixc11,000 Ii 1                                                 12,110 /b m         860 Ic       21,570 In     2,230
Popalatioc zo, n-rning, pereon                                    1,610          3 150 /b t         290 -         2,980 74     2 700
Pop.lation par hospital bed                                         hio             730 710/b                       780 74       420
Pvr capita cal-ori   supply am % of requiremeote /                   93I/            90             120              69           89
Per capita protein vapply, total (grams per day)/1                  I729             68               88             43           55
Of odici, -ni-ea   on  pulse                                       32 ~j           29              58              23           29
Dea~th ra.t  1-1, years /7                                          ...0.9                                          I. 
EDUCATION
Aa-Jusled /8 prioary school enrollment ratio                         49             67               98 /b          '37            95 /d
Aaiusled 74 neacndary school enrollment ratio                         3 Ks.           9 La           58 74            2           21 74-
Tears of ec~hoollog p-oided, first and second level                  13             13               13              13            11
VocatiocaI enrollment as % of ceo. school enrollment                 12               2                5 /c           6            22 /d
Adu lt literacy rate %                                                               30 Id            97 74o
HOUSING
Averago No. of per-ons per room (urban)                             2.5 Icr         .               0.6 /ste
P--ost of occpied unite without pIped water                         ..*                              .20 /a
Accss to electrIcity (ae % of total population)                     ..-..3                                                         7
Porc-t of rural pupulation connected to electricity                 *,,                                              .36
CONSIVPTION
Radio riesl-ere per 100    populathon                                 9              48 /b.v        324 /b           11           105
P     -oag r .cr  per 1000 population                            N              8              2:15              2 /b         7
1le-tris pos-   ~On-uption Clods p.c..)                              27             45            4.291 /b           29 __        378
Neasprint consuption p-c kg Per year                                0.4            0.5               28 -           0.1          2.4
ctn,L  :  Figorc  refer !h-c i. the Intent periode or to                 ac ount of environmental temPerature, body weights, and
¶h beitent y-ro-c a1te-t period      refer in principle to               dietribution by 1oge and ems of national PPulatione.
be yeoc jyKiic ur9f1-7(; the   ocn    year  in pr.             /6  Protein standards (requirements) for all n..antriseas ..etab-
,Il       1yfl  -do 1970.                                                 limbed by USDAk Ecnone.c Reasearcb Service provide for a sinIstu
LiIho Pcc in;.) La Gii aniat      1r     -k,ach  prica. rfc            allowance of 60 grate   of total protein per day, and 20 grams of
0hr'I,     ',ciultdby the at-n conversIo                   animal and polses protein, of which 10 grame should be a.nimal
),ot;qu  o  i  1972 Wo-;, .ob PAtic                           protein.   These standards are somsewhsat 1ewer than thoee of 75
-bvraec     -eo  of daughters per comas of reproductive            grass  of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as a.n
age.                                 ..avrage for the world, proposed by FAD in the Third Warld Food
5 PoPuicoico1 pa-.i ct-air   re for thy d-cdes ending in               Sur"ey.
1960 cod 197)'../                                                    Smee et,dlee have saggeeted that nrude death rates of children
A5  N0on of -nc- 25 cod 65 and over age brochets to                       ages 1 through I. may be used as a first approximation i-ndex of
those in in~tor force brocket of ages 15 through 6L.                 malnutrition.
F AD referenc    otondardo represent phyninlogicul     e-          L§. Percentage enrlled of sorreeponding population of school age
qoir-orto for no-ea     octivity end health, taking                  as defined for each aoostry.
Ia   UN) estloateefor African~ population, based on analysis of data from 1962 post-censal samiple survey;          /b 29A9;    /c 1967;
74d  1958;  Is 19i2-69;    /f 2,000 or more inhabitanta;      I& Population living in a nucleos of 1,500 or more Inhabitants;
Tn   19o2;  75i Basci on complete enumeration     of non-African population and of urban Africa.n population a.nd on a 10 percent
sample of rural African population; /J Labor farce in age bracket 15-59; /k Ratio of population under 15 a.nd 65 and nvear
to total labor force;     /1 Corresponding to the number of registered persounna; not all of them         a,re practicing to the
coantry;   Ic Excluding me-dical assistante;     In Tanganyika only;    /. Including midwives, assistant eldwiries and asisitunt
cures.;   J'19f1-63;    La including teacoer training of the third'CTlvsl; I/r UN estimate;          Isa 1966;  It Urban and rural;
Ia   irbao only;   /n Estimate.
0l  Mura   1 3, l)7h



A,_ > I
Page 2 of 3 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATOi'S
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1972                 ANNUAL RATE OF GROJTH
(%, Constant 1974 Prices)
US$ MIn.     %     1963-70   1970-72   1973
GNP at Market Prices        1,964     100.0     8.2       6.4
Gross Domestic Investment     473      24.1    16.6       7.3
Gross National Saving         403      20.5     5.8       6.o
Current Account Balance       -52      -2.7
Exports of Goods, NFS         550      28.0     6.4       0.0
Import of Goods, NFS          602      30.7     9.1       0.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added    Labor Force /   V. A. Per Worker
us$ Nln.   %    Mn.     %
Agriculture                504    31   4,647   86        109       36.0
Industry                   201    13     iLl    3      1,423      47.5
Services                   387    24     301    6      1,286      42.9
Unallocated                520    32     208    5      )°°        60.2
1 ,615  100.0 5,377  100.0      300     100.0
GOVERNMENT FI:NANCE
General Gover,nment 2/          Central Government
(L Mln.)   % of Monetary GDP   (L Mln.)  % of Monetary GDP
19/72 19 7   1/72   1967i70   1 971/72  171/72     1967/70
Current Receipts             15 .1     34.7       23.6     1i1.2       31.0     20.2
Current Expenditure          134.2     29.5       22.1      118.5      25.8     17.5
Current Surplus               23.9      Y-                   22.7       5.2      2.7
Capital Expenditures          63.3     13.9        6.6       53.8      11.8      6.1
External Assistance (net)       -        -          -         9.4       2.1      1.5
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICFS         1966   1969   1970    1971   1972
(Million 1. outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money             94     132     168    183    204
Bank credit to Public Sector      -         5      7     16     26
Bank credit to Private Sector     52      66      87    111    124
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
1966    1969    1970    1971    1972
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP    22.6    25.4     29.2    28.5    28.7
General Price Index (1963 = 100) 2/ 100.5   104.7   107.6    111.2   116.8
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                   0.7     1.7      2.8     3.3     5.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector
Bank Credit to Private Sector         6.9     8.3    31.8     27.6    11.2
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing Auring the period covered.
j   Total labor force includes estimates of informal seetor employnent and self-
employment; agricultu-re is assumed to be the residual employer. "Unallocated"
consists mainly of unemployed workers seelcing their first job.
2/ Central and local governmei,t only.
j   GD0 deflator.
not available
not applicable



Annex I
Page 3 of 3 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALAICE OF PAYMENTS                          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 196)4-72)
1964  1970  1972
H-ilio-ris UWST$                          US $ Mln    %
Exports of Goods, NFS       337   L69   550  Coffee                      59     19.5
ImDorts of Goods, NFS       286   407   602  Tea                         25     10.9
Resource Gap (deficit = -)  T     L       2  Petroleum Products ,/       82     12.5
Sisal                        8      3.1
Interest Payments (net)      ..    ..        Meat                         9      3-5
Workers' Remittanaces        ..    ..        To E. A. C. Z/              68     26.5
Other Factor Paymaents (net)  ?LI  -26  -28  All other commodities       61     23.8
Net Transfers                36    20    34         Total               259    100.0
Balance =n Current Account   7     3    -70
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECItBER 31, 1972
Directo: 17sreign Investment  ..   42    46
Net MfLT Borro,.-ng          ..    45    45                               US $ }ln
Disbursements
Amortization               .    .     .   Public Debt, incl. guaranteed   353
Subtotal                  7    T      91  Non-Guiaranteed Private Debt
Capital Grants               ..    ..    ..  Total outstanding & Disbursed   35T
Other Capital (net)          16     2     2
Other items n.e.i.          -25    -1    ..  DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1972 3/
Increase in Reserves (+)   _7     ;     2*8
Gross Reserves (end year) 52.4L/219.8 202.1
Net Reserves (end year)   51.9   218.5 199.2Public Debt, incl. guaranteed   4.6
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
RATE OF EXCHANGE                             Total Outstanding & Disbursed   .6
Thro-lgh March 1973                IBRD/IDA LENDING. MARCH 31, 1974 (US $ ltillion)
US $ 1.00 = K.Sh. 7.1)4
; 1.00 = US $  2.80                                             IBRD   IDA
Since January 1, 1974              Outstanding & Disbursed         50.9  614.7
u'   I.00 =K.Sh. 7.1)4             Undisbursed                     70.5  4I4.1
; 1.00 = US $  2.80             Outstanding incl. Undisbursed  121.4 1 O.8
Since June 30 1973
UST 1 . O= K.S1i o 'i
L 1.00 - US $  2.C985
1/  Including exports tc FAC.
2/ Excluding petroleum products.
3/ Ratio of Debt Service (excluding notioral 1/3 share of EAC debts) to Exports
of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
4/  1966 figures                      not uvailable
not applicable
FebruarY 7, 197)4






nulex TI
Pa3ige 1. 01
THE STATUS OF BA_NK GROUP OPERATIOS_ IN Ki.NYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as at 'March 31, _974_
US $ M.llions
Loan or                                                        Amount (less CarlnoellD tliofll-)
Credit No.     Year    Borrower             Purpose             Hank   IDh   Unoisburkso
Two (2) loans and eight (8) credits, fully disbursed             8.62  36.L2      -
129         1968    Kenya       Livestoclk Development               3.6(-)
639         1969    Kenya       Highways                     23.                I
641         1969    Kenya       Forest Plantations            L. o0            .89
185         1970    Kenya       &ducation                            6.io n 
714         1970    NCC        Water Supply                   8.3)             . 43
224         1970    Keinra      Road 1Iaintenance                   12. 6*-   2.61
745         1971    TRDC       Htydroelectric Development    -3.00             .55
276         1972    Kenya      Highway                              22.00 lC '71;7;
826         1972    Kenya      Nairobi Airp, t,              29.00 0iX40
344         1972    Kenya      Agricultural Credit                   6.00     5.j30
°32         1973    Kenya       Highwa,rs                    29.00           ? CO,r
986         1974    TDC        DFC                            5.00 
LVT8        157L    Kenya       Population                          12.00    -o.)0 3./
Total-                                          129.02  98.7    I1?.ll
of which has been,repaid                        6.75    -
Total now outstanding                           122.27  '8J,.7
Amount sold                    5,14
of which has been repaid     4.31
Total now held by Bank & ID.                    121. 4L )'.7 a,'
Total Undisbursed                                70      6 ,_
1/ Credit not yet effective
a/ Prior to Exchange Adjustment
B. Statement of IFC Investments in Kenya as at March 31, 1974
Amount in US 14 lillion
Year          Obligor               Type of Business        Loan    Z(lujtu- ty)
1068 & 1973   Kenya Hotel Properties        Hotels              >1      0.8         , 9
1970 & 1974   Pan African Paper Mills       Pulp and Paper     10.6     5.2       1>8
1972      Tourism Promotion bervices    Hotels              2.1     _
Total Gross Commitments                       18.1     6. )        *
less cancellations, terminations,
repaypents and sales                        5.?_    14        7.i
Total Commitments now held b' TFC             12.2              .-.f
Total Undisbursed                              3.9     1.(        .7



Annex II
Page 2 cf )4
C.   Projects in &xecution 1/
Credit 129 - Livestock Development; $3.6 million Credit of beutenbeu
26, 1968; Closing Date: Decenber 31, 1974.   A Swedish Cre    otho-, samvo
has also been made foor this project.  Initial implementation was slow in pait
because of the project's pioneering nature, for which Kenya had little prior
experience. Progress on project execution has improvec greatly durin-g the pi-st
two years, and all funds for ranch development have been committed.  The bulk of
the Credit has already been disbursed but to allow for retention money to be paid,
the Closing Date has been postponed by one year until December :31, 197L.
Loan 639 - Highways; $23.5 million Loan of Octcber 1O, 196,°; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1975.  Construction is substantially completed except for two
contracts which have been delayed by changes' in specifications and construction
standards.   These delays required postponement of the Closing Date from December
31, 1973 to June 30, 19750  There has been a 30 percent increase above original
cost estimates due mainly to design changes.
Loan 641 - Forest Plantation; $2.6 million Loan of NSovember 7, 1969;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1975. Progress is satisfactory and      disbursements
are proceeding faster than envisaged, and the loan is expected tlo be fully (drawrl
down a year before Closing Date.  Planting ancl technical aspects are satisfactory.
Preparation of a second phase project is now well under way.
Credit 105 - Education; $6.1 million Credit of May 20, 1970;  Closing
Date: December 31, 1975. Construction is proceeding at a slower rate thar
anticipated. As remedial action has beer taken, it is expected that all pro,ect
institutions except two will be completed prior to the December 197L project
completion date; the remaining school for which the Government is propnosing rod-
fications is expected to be completed about July 1975, six months prior to the
December 31, :.975 Closing Date.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regardirg the
progress of proJects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and wealnesses
in project execution.



Annex II
Page 3 of 4
Loan 714 - Water Supply; $8.3 million Loan of November 7, 1969;
Closinj Date:   arch            Good progress   as een made cn the main project
items, and water should be delivered to Nairobi on schedule in March 1974. A
twelve-month postponement of the Closing Date, however, will be required to en-
able completion of ancillary items. The lWater and Sewerage Department is
experiencing serious staffing shortages in its engineering and commercial sections
due to inability to attract and retain staff. The Government and City Council
have agreed on urgent remedial action.
Credit 224 - Rqoad Maintenance; $12.6 million Credit of December 28,
19703 Closing Date: June 30, 1975. The Project is proceeding satisfactorily0
All designated posts in the MOW have been filled. Most of the equipment has been
installed and the Highway Training Center is operational.
Ioan 745 - Kamburu Hydroelectric; $23.0 million Loan of June 7, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975. Project construction has slipped, and completion
is 1ikel7 to be four to six months behind the original scheduled date of February
1974. This should still permit beginning commercial operations by November 1974
-- the start of the rainy season.   Costs have increased by about 7 percent due
principally to the last US dollar devaluation and increased costs of consultants
services as the construction period lengthened.
Credit 276 - Highwavs; $22.0 million Credit of June 5, 1972; Closing
Late: I1arch 31, 1976. This project, which is jointly financed by a Swedish
Credit of $6.0 million, made a slow start due to delays in obtaining governmental
approvals to issue tenders. Because of high bid prices, overall costs of the
project show a 10 percent increase.
TLoan 826 - Nairobi Airport; $29 million Loan of June 2, 1972; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1976.  The major contracts have been awarded   and work has
commenced, but inadequate supervision by the key contractor and administrative
lelays b- the Government have led to delays in the physical execution of the
nrci-ect. The financial management, which was poor, has now improved, and a fi-
nancial manager to help establish commercial accounting systems has been appointed.
Credit 34 - Agricultural Credit; $6.0 million Credit of November 29,
1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. This Credit was declared effective March 2,
1973.  The Agricultural Finance Corporation has started a second phase of lendinv
operations, following the completion of the first under Credit 105.   Progress
prcceeding well, except that on-farm credit supervision could be improved. Con-
sultants for an agricultural credit study are being selected.
Loan 932 - flighways; $29.0 million Loan of September 6, 1973; Closin½g
Date: December 31, 1977. This Loan was made effective on November 9, 1973. Bids
will be invited shortly.
Loan 9h6 - Industrial Development Bank; $5.0 million Ioan of Njovember
29, 1973; Closing Date:  Iarch 31, 1976.   This loan was made effective on March 76,
17714. A sub-pr      t        $l.l  million has been approved, and further
commitments are expected in the near future.
Credit 865 - Population; $12.0 million Credit of April 1, l97Li;
Closing Date:  June 30, 197).  This credit is not yet effective.



Annex II
Page 4 of 4
D. Statement Of Bank Loans For Common Services Guaranteed
By Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda As At March 31, 1974
(US$ Million)
Amount Less Cancellations
Loan No.     Year     Borrower           Purpose         Bank     Undisbursed
Three Loans Fully Disbursed                              75.o
638-PA       1969       EAHC       Harbors               35.o         11.2
674-EA       1970       EARC       Railways              42.4         21.5
675-EA       1970       EAPTC      TeleccmTmunications   10.4          0.7
843-EA       1972       EADB      Development finance     8.0          8.o
865-EA       1972       EAHC       Harbors               26.5         22.8
914-PA       1973       EAPTC      Telecommunications    32.5         29.1
Total                                      229.8         93.3
of which has been repaid                  25.4
Total now outstanding                      204.4
Amount sold:                   24.4
of which has been repaid     2304          1.0
Total now held by Bank                     203.4
Total undisbursed                           93.3



ANNEX III
Page 1
KENYA
Loan and Project Stmmary
Borrower:                     Kenya Tea Development Authority (KTDA)
Guarantor:                     Republic of Kenya
Amount:                       US$10.4 million
Terms:                        71¼ percent interest rate; repayable over
20 years with a seven year grace period.
Project Description:           The project will help finance 17 KTDA
factories to process previously planted
tea and will assist KTDA to set up new
departments to organize factory construc-
tion and equipment, provide management
training and supply advice on tea market-
ing and administrative matters to the
factories.
Relending Terms:              Sub-loans to KTDA factories at 7-3/4
percent over 16 years with a three year
grace period.
Elstimated Cost:
(US$ million)
Items                      Foreign    Local    Total
Factory constructlon                  7.93     6.o      13.9
Workcing capital                       -       2.3       2.3
Factory management and training       0.7      1.1       1.8
Contingencies                         2.3      2.5       4.8
Less:  Sales and other taxes           -      (1.9)     (1.9)
Total                     10.9     10.0      20.8 1/
F'inancing Plan: 2/
Proposed IBRD loan         10.4
Proposed CDC loan           6.3
Government of Kenva         4.1 3/
Total              20.8
X/ Items do not add te total owing to rounding.
2/ IBRD and CDC financing is joint.
3/ Net of taxes and duties.



Annex III
Page 2
(US $ million)
.,3t;UqttLd Disbursements:      Bank FY Ending   1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980
Annual            3.6    2.2   2.0  1.1    0.9   0.7
Cumulative        3.6   5.8    7.8  8.9    9.8  lo.4 1/
Procurement:                    Vehicles, factory buildings, plant and equipment
where contracts exceed   $30,000 would be procured
by international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank/TDA guidelines. Domestic manufacturers
will, however, be accorded a margin of preference
equal to the existing rate of customs duty or 15
percent of tne c.i.f. costs of competing imports,
whichever is the lower. Domestic civil works
contractors will be accorded a 7½ percent margin
of preference0   Goods and services costing between
$10,000 and $30,000 would be procured after competi-
tive bidding on the basis of local advertisement.
Any contract for goods or services costing less than
$10,000 would be procured on the basis of quotations
from local suppliers. Retroactive financing of up
to $0.4 million is recommended for the Bank's share
of the costs of the first four factories under the
project from January to April 1974.
Rtate of Teturn:                The economic rate of return is estimated at 24
percent using a shadow price of foreign exchange of
K.Sh 10 = $100 and a shadow price of labor of 50
percent of the daily wage rate of K.Sh. 4.00, 17
percent with shadow pricing of labor only, and 10
percent with no shadow pricing of foreign exchange
or labor.
- praisl dieport:                Report No. 311a-KE, dated April 5, 1974 EAPAG,
3A Regional Office.
Map:                             A map of the proposed project area is attached.
1/ items do not add to total owing to rounding.



IBRD -10381R
TO KAPENGURIA                   -A                               -  ,- -.
~ KENYA 
UGANDA
NqAIROB
.f: W  Et. Elgon               J0                                        "O
/ITALE                                                           N
~~~K          N   A                 MAGID\
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tt O WAR
EXISTNG  LDARETEARS
5   v                                               9,AIRROAD
0  40  80   c0                  y
M LES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~li
SMALLHOL                                                 O DER  TEAj 
GRO    WN)Qg g  G     A,I,-''JELAS                                                         1 t73
EXISTING KTDA TEA AREAS              +t        
ROADS                                          s  M.w 
RA    iLWAYS                                       K,  a  t.lnonr. 10 1.
- I NTERNAT IONAL BOUNDAR IES                        !.tlg. ,.
Tro MOS>H I                 o
0      40     80     120                                                        TMOMBASA
M ILES                               rl,I4I i "als2,>,,  >  thilst1), 1 "w , , '
i  ph}l  L'/ IR 'tL#I   :M  }  Z , L IfE(t /.  1C 
10i,l.lB,,I,. 1dIt,IW11111, I,   JULY  1973



