LOAN NUMBER           EGT
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Alexandria Port Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ALEXANDRIA PORT AUTHORITY
Dated                        1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    Z/1      2 /    , 1976, between INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and ALEXANDRIA PORT AUTHORITY (hereinafter called
the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) The Arab Republic of Egypt (hereinafter called
the Guarantor) has requested the Bank to assist in financing the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the
Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Guarantor and the Borrower have undertaken to make
arrangements for obtaining additional financing from other sources
to meet the total cost of the Project, including an amount equiv-
alent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000) to meet the foreign
exchange costs of the Project;
(C) By a Guarantee Agreement of even date herewith, the
Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the full performance of all
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and has as-
sumed additional obligations, all as set forth in the Guarantee
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower on the terms and con-
ditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the pro-
visions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said General Con-
ditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "The Alexandria Port Authority" means the Alexandria Port
Authority, a General Authority of the Guarantor established by
Law No. 6 of 1967 of the Guarantor;
(b)  "GWE" General Warehouses of Egypt, a public company
established and operating under the laws of the Guarantor; and
(c) "UASC" means United Arab Stevedoring Company, a public
company established and operating under the laws of the Guarantor.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-five mil-
*     lion dollars ($45,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for expenditures
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Proj-
ect and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and works for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
9)     Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3.4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.


﻿Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist UASC in purchasing the
equipment included in 1(b) and 2(a) of the Annex to Schedule 2
hereto, the Borrower shall relend to UASC an appropriate portion
of the proceeds of the Loan under Category (6) of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and UASC (hereinafter referred to as the UASC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement) under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.
(b) In order to assist WE in constructing facilities included
in Part A(5) of the Project and in purchasing equipment included in
2(b) and 3(b) of the Annex to Schedule 2 hereto, the Borrower shall
relend to GWE an appropriate portion of the proceeds of the Loan
under Categories (5) and (6) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and WE (hereinafter referred to as the GWE Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the UASC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and GWE Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and


﻿  - 6 -
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
nor waive the UASC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the GIE Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. In order to acsist the Borrower in carrying out
Parts C (1) (b), C (1) (c) and C (2) of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against.hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b% Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and


﻿to identify the goods, works and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project including quarterly Project progress reports,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods, works
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records and documents.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shrll take all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land, and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Proj-
ect and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in re-
spect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, plan the development of its properties and facilities
and maintain its financial position in accordance with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and port manage"-
ment practices under the supervision of experienced and competent
management; and shall cause its plant, equipment, properties and
facilities to be maintained and all necessary renewals and repairs
thereto to be made, all in accordance with appropriate administra-
tive, financial, engineering and port management practices.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
operations.
(b) The Borrower shall not sell or otherwise dispose of any
of its property or assets which shall be required for the efficient
conduct of its operations.


﻿-9-
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall apply annually to the appro-
priate authorities of the Guarantor for all the foreign exchange
it will require to procure spare parts for all its equipment.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall increase or cause to be in-
creased hook-hour productivity on general cargo handling to an
annual average of at least 11.3 tons by January 1, 1979.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall discuss with the Bank
the consultants' reports on the studies under Part C of the Proj-
ect..
(b) The Borrower shall take all necessary action to imple-
ment those recommendations of the said reports which are acceptable
to the Borrower and the Bank in the case of recommendations relat-
ing to Part C (2) (a), (c), (d) and (e) of the Project by January 1,
1980, and in the case of those relating to Part C (2) (b) of the
Project as follows: revaluation of assets by December 31, 1977, and
other parts by December 31, 1978.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall consult with the Bank on any
amendments or revisions to be made in its investment program for
the period 1975-1980.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall, in consultation with the
Guarantor, study appropriate incentives for the services of qual-
ified staff, and the recruitment of such staff for the Borrower,
such study to be completed by December 31, 1977.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition.
*
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
mouths after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall .have reasonably requested; and (iii) fur-
nish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for
any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank or
stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and


﻿- 11 -
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant,
at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure-the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing provi-
sions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created
on property, at the tire of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shill otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take or cause to be taken from time to time all
action within its power (including the adjustment of its tariffs
and rates) as shall be necessary or required on its part to produce
revenues sufficient to cover the operating expenses of the Borrower
(including depreciation and adequate maintenance) and to yield an
annual rate of return of not less than nine per cent (9%) on the
value of the Borrower's net fixed assets in operation.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) above:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated by
relating the net operating income for the fiscal
year in question to the average of the Borrower's
net fixed assets in operation at the beginning
and at the end of that year;


﻿- 12 -
(ii) the term "net operating income" shall mean the
difference between:
(A) gross operating revenue accruing from the
Borrower's services; and
(B) operating, maintenance and administrative
expenses and adequate provision for depre-        9
ciation but excluding taxes, interest and
other charges on debt.
(iii) the term "value of the Borrower's net fixed assets
in operation" means the gross book value of such
assets less the amount of accumulated depreciation,
both as valued from time to-time in accordance with
sound and consistently maintained methods of valua-
tion acceptable to the Bank based on the estimated
replacement cost of said assets.
Section 5.05. (a) The Borrower shall discuss with the Bank the
consultants' report on the revaluation of the Borrower's assets un-
der Part C of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall with the assistance of said consultants:
(i) by December 31, 1977, revalue its assets in accor-
dance with sound and consistently maintained methods
of valuation acceptable to the Bank and the Guarantor;


﻿- 13 -
(ii) introduce by December 31, 1978, an appropriate
management accounting system; and
(iii) by December 31, 1978, implement a new cost-related
tariff structure agreeable to the Bank and the Guar-
antor (including charges on land) and based on the
estimated replacement cost of the Borrower's assets.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the law establishing the Borrower shall have been amended,
suspended, waived or repealed so as to materially and adversely
affect the operations or financial condition of the Borrower;
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the tL ns of the agreement providing
therefor; or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)      Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspen-
sion, cancellation, termination or prematuring


﻿- 15 -
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
to perform any of its obligations under such
agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from
other sources on terms and conditions consist-
ent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following event is specified, namely, the event
specified in paragraph (a) or (b)(i)(B) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
-,..............


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the receipt by the Bank of a financing plan for the Proj-
ect satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) the conclusion by the Borrower and/or Guarantor of co-
firiancing agreements satisfactory to the Bank in an amount equiv-
alent to at least fifty million dollars ($50,000,000) to meet the
foreign exchange costs of the Project not provided for under the
Loan;
(c)  the execution and delivery of the UASC Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and UASC, respectively, have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action; and
(d) the execution and delivery of the CWE Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and CIE, respectively, have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters within the meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Condi-
tions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:


﻿- 17 -
(a) that the UASC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and UASC, and is legally binding upon the Bor-
rower and UASC; and
(b) that the GWE Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and GWE, and is legally binding upon the Bor-
rower and GWE.
Section 7.03. The date                 j /Y/ /  is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Iq WIP.MII7


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE VIIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
.1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        .440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Alexandria Port.Authority
106 Gamal Abd el Nasser Street
Alexandria
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                    Telex:
Alexandria Port Authority         4147 MOMTS
Alexandria


﻿- 19 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Colombia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By      A!'j                               --
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
ALEXANDRIA PORT AUTHORITY
ByAuhrzed
Author'ze  Representative


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  (a) Dredging              7,700,000     )    80% (representing
)    the estimated
(b) Underwater              500,000     )    foreign expendi-
quay investiga-                -   )    ture component)
tion                               )
(2) Paving and                   600,000          35% (representing
surfacing                                    the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)
(3) Berth con-                  8,650,000         50% (representing
struction                                    the estimated
(excluding                                   foreign expendi-
dredging)                                    ture component)
(4) Transit sheds               3,250,000         80% (representing
the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)
(5) Storage                     2,000,000         35% (representing
facilities                                   the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)


﻿- 21 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6)  (a)  Floating             6,165,000          100% of foreign
and other                               expenditures or
equipment                               the ex-factory
(excluding                              cost of locally
barges)                                 manufactured
including                               items
spare parts
for such
equipment
(b) Steel and               600,000          100% of foreign
equipment                               expenditures
for barges
(7) Consultants'               2,750,000          75%
services
(8) Unallocated               13,385,000
TOTAL     45,000,000
W.7wr                         N


﻿- 22 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of a country other than
the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall
be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the 9
territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the impor-
tation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if
the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or increases,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000, may be
made in respect of Category 7 on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1976.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category,


﻿- 23 -
to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds
of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures;
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project which forms part of the Guarantor's port invest-
ment program is intended to relieve congestion at Alexandria Port
and to accommodate traffic expected up to the beginning of 1980.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.   (1)  Deferred maintenance dredging of accummulated sand in
the access channels (Great Pass and Bougaz Pass) of,
and fairways inside, the Port and alongside quays.
(2) Capital dredging of sand and hard materials in the
Alternate Pass.
(3) Underwater quay investigation.
(4) Paving and surfacing of about 100,000 square meters of
roads and work areas.
(5)  Construction of about 550 meters length of deep sea
berths with associated utilities and dredging and about
22,500 square meters of transit sheds.
(6) Construction of 100,000 square meters of storage
facilities and the paving and surfacing of an additional
100,000 square meters in a new storage area.


﻿- 25 -
B.        Purchase of floating, cargo handling and miscellaneous
equipment as more specifically described in the Annex
to this Schedule, and necessary spare parts for such
equipment.
C.   (1) Provision of consultancy services for: (a) soil investi-
gation in area of construction of deep-sea berths; (b)
final engineering for berth construction, preparation
of tender documents and bid evaluation; and (c) final
engineering for harbor radar and radio installation.
(2) Provision of consultancy services for:
(a) the Borrower's organization and staffing;
(b) assistance in the revaluation of the Borrower's
assets, identification of cost and revenue centers,
modernization of accounting systems and introduc-
tion of cost accounting and budgeting systems;
(c) reorganization of the Borrower's worksilops including
a program of maintenance )f its equipment;
(d) identification of the Borrower's training needs,
preparation and implementation of its training
programs; and
.7,            '1[


﻿- 26 -
(e) a study of sea pollution in the Port and of measures
and regulations to control it.
*         *         *         *         *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.
ýTT0T


﻿-27 -
ANNEX
Description of Equipment under
Part B of the Project
1.   Floating Equipment
(a)  for the use of Borrower: two 35 ton self-propelled
floating cranes, six 20 ton pull tug boats, three 480
hp/16m pilot boats, eight 250 hp service boats, one
grab dredger, two self-propelled dump barges;'and
(b) for the use of UASC: eight 250 hp service/tug boats,
fifty 200 ton barges.
2.   Cargo Handling Equipment
(a) for the use of UASC: 115 fork lift trucks (5 to 10 ton);
38 mobile cranes (10 to 30 ton); 1 high tower mobile
crane (35 ton); 27 high tower mobile cranes (10 to 15
ton); 80 trucks (8 to 30 ton); 20 tractors; 95 trailers
(5 to 40 ton); 15 belt conveyors; 2 side loaders; 6 hopper
silos for unloading bulk cargo 10,000 pallets; and
(b) for the use of GWE: 70 fork lift trucks (3 ton); 10 mobile
cranes (10 to 30 ton); 2 high tower mobile cranes (10
ton); 85 trucks (8 to 30 ton).


﻿- 28 -
Miscellaneous Equipment
(a) for the use of the Borrower: workshop equipment, liaison
cars, pickup trucks, buses and traffic control equipment;
and
(b) for the use of GWE: liaison cars, pickup trucks and
buses.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
March 15, 1981                                     445,000
September 15, 1981                                 465,000
March 15, 1982                                     485,000
September 15, 1982                                 505,000
March 15, 1983                                     525,000
September 15, 1983                                 550,000
March 15, 1984                                     575,000
September 15, 1984                                 595,000
March 15, 1985                                     625,000
September 15, 1985                                 650,000
March 15, 1986                                     675,000
September 15, 1986                                 705,000
March 15, 1987                                     735,000
September 15, 1987                                 765,000
March 15, 1988                                     800,000
September 15, 1988                                 835,000
March 15, 1989                                     870,000
September 15, 1989                                 905,000
March 15, 1990                                     945,000
September 15, 1990                                 985,000
*      March 15, 1991                                   1,025,000
September 15, 1991                               1,070,000
March 15, 1992                                  .1,115,000
September 15, 1992                               1,165,000
March 15, 1993                                   1,210,000
September 15, 1993                               1,265,000
March 15, 1994                                   1,315,000
September 15, 1994                               1,375,000
March 15, 1995                                   1,430,000
September 15, 1995                               1,490,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 30 -
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
March 15, 1996                                    1,555,000
September 15, 1996                                1,620,000
March 15, 1997                                    1,690,000
September 15, 1997                                1,765,000
March 15, 1998                                    1,840,000
September 15, 1998                                1,915,000
March 15, 1999                                    1,995,000
September 15, 1999                                2,080,000
March 15, 2000                                    2,170,000
September 15, 2000                                2,270,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see Ceneral Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 31 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                         2-1/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             4%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen years
- before maturity                         5-1/2%
More than sixteen years but
not more than twenty-one years
before maturity                         7-1/4%
More than twenty-one years but
not more than twenty-three
years before maturity                       8%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                         8-1/2%


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
(Section 2.03)
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and works shall be procured under contracts to be awarded
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
2.   Bidders for: (a) the works included in Parts A(l) and (2)
(dredging) and Part A(5) (berth construction and association util-
ities, transit sheds and dredging); and (b) the goods included in
Part B of the Project (floating, cargo-handling and miscellaneous
equipment), shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of
Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;


﻿-33-
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other ex-
penditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Arab Republic of Egypt may be granted
a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the fol-
lowing provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the informa-
tion required .to establish the eligibility of a bid for such pref-
erence and the following methods and stages that will be followed
in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Arab
Republic of Egypt if the bidder shall have estab-
lished to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Arab Republic of Egypt
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2)  Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Arab Republic of Egypt.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.


﻿-34-
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evaluated
bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared
with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from
group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be furthek compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered in
each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only,
an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other im-
port taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such'group C bid; or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under
paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to
be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said proce-
dure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of
=mm


﻿-35-
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments
before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make
such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said
list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $250,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence befure it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall-furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.


﻿- 36 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the award-of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿긔


