LOAN NUMBER /23      EGT
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Alexandria Port Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                     ,1976
AW   - I no!0p"llpWIFE WIV


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 / 7        1976, between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Alexandria Port Authority (hereinafter called the
Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in
various currencies equivalent to forty-five million dollars
($45,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guar-
antee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
-Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor speci-
fically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to believe
that the funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate to
meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of
the Project (including working capital requirements), to make ar-
rangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the
Borrower or cause the .Borrower to be provided with such funds as
are needed to meet such expenditures.
(b) The Guarantor also undertakes to make arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, to increase as and when necessary the
equity capital of the Borrower and its subsidiaries in accordance
with a financial plan acceptable to the Bank.


﻿Section 2.03. The Guarantor shall cause the Borrower to be
allocated all the foreign exchange it shall reasonably require to
procure spare parts for the adequate maintenance of all its equip-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Guarantor shall:
(a) take all necessary action to implement or cause to be
implemented by the dates specified in Section 4.06 of the Loan
Agreement the recommendations to be implemented under that Sec-
tion; and
(b)  take all necessary action to implement, not later than
December 31, 1978, the new tariff structure referred to in Section
5.05 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Guarantor shall:
(a)  implement no major port development before the comple-
tion of (i) the national transport survey referred to in Part
(I) of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (Second Railways Project)
No. 1098-EGT dated April 2, 1975, between the Egyptian Railways
Organization and the Bank; and (ii) the national port development
plan to be produced following such survey; and
(b) start no construction of general cargo handling facili-
ties at Dekhela, before completion of the survey and plan referred
to in paragraph (a) above.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member.
However, if and when any lien shall be created on any public assets
(as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt, which
will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor
of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribu-
tion of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally
and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or permitting the crea-
tion of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal
reason such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien cre-
ated on assets of any of its political or administrative subdi-
visions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank
secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to
the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper- I
ating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
*


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Economy and Economic Cooperation
of the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Economy and
Economic Cooperation
8 Adly Pasha Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                     Telex:
Ministry of Economy and            GAFEC 348
Economic Cooperation          Cairo
Cairo
0
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 11 Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Colombia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Afries


﻿긔


