CCl lU LAT IN  iOY 4  G  *     C     3 r    No.  P- 1068
TO BE RETURi,ED TOE RPORTS DESK                  0 p 
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA S. A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
May 10, 1972



ITTERNATIODUL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AMD DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AAND RLCOMMEI!DATION 07 THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL 5INANCIERA, S.A.
vITH THE GUARAMTEE OF THE WITED MEXICAiI STATES FOR? AN
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (7'o0EI) PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and reconmendation on a proposed
loan to Nacional Financiera, S.A. writh the guarantee of the United
Mexican States for the equivalent of $35 million, to finance the foreign
component of the lending operations of the Government's Industrial Equip-
ment Fund (FONEI). The loan would have a term of 20 years, including
three years of grace, with interest at 7-1/4 percent per annum.
PART I - BANK LEMDING TO ME7ICO
2.        My- report and recommendation dated April 19, 1972, which was
distributed in connection with the proposed Bank loan for a ports project,
gave recent information on the Mexican economy and its prospects, and
summarized the Bank's past and planned activities in Mexico (see Annex IV).
As indicated in that report, the port loan and other loans to MNexico
planned for presentation during the next few months total over $250
million. After taking into account scheduled repayments during the
disbursement period of the new loans, Mexico's total outstanding debt
to the Bank would increase by about $143 million (from the present total
of about $839 to $982 million at the end of FY1975). If the Bank made
no further loans to Mexico and Mexico did not increase further her out-
standing external debt during this period the Bank's share in the total
would increase from about 20 to 23 percent. However, Mexico will un-
doubtedly be borrowing extensively during the coming years to meet the
growing external financing requirements of the economy and is looking
increasingly to the Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank in order
to help meet these needs and improve the maturity pattern of her external
debt.
3.        In addition to the loans I expect to present for your considera-
tion during the next few months, there is a substantial number of projects
which are at an earlier stage of preparation or review including projects
for rural development and education. Future lending will, of course,
depend on progress made in preparing suitable projects, as well as on
Mexico's economic performance, particularly in fiscal matters, the
balance of payments and investment planning. If the level of Bank lending
were to average $200 million per year during the next five years, the
Bank's share in Mexico's external debt would increase from about 20 percent
at present to 25 to 30 percent by 1980. Mexico faces difficult long-
term structural problems arising from a rapidly growing population, the
need to improve conditions within rural areas and to start to reduce in-
come disparities. At the same time development requires substantial
capital which has to come from additional public savings if excessive
reliance on foreign borrowing is to be avoided. Given sound fiscal



-2-
policies the near term prospects of the econory appear favorable.   M4anu-
factured exports are expected to continue to expand rapidly. External
reserves are equivalent to about 5 months imports. Service of the external
debt absorbs about 20 percent of exports and non-factor services and is
not projected to increase above that level over the next 10 to 15 years.
In the light of past performance and present prospects I believe M'exico
is creditworthy for the foreign borrowing presently contemplated. At
Annex I is a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments in
Mexico. Country data are at Annex II.
PArIT II - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
4.       Mexican industry has grown very rapidly since lWorld War II,
attaining an average annual growth rate of 8.4 percent per year in real
terms in the 1960's, while GDP grew at an average rate of 7.1 percent.
About one-fourth of gross domestic investment went into industry during
the 1960's and its share in GDP increased from 19 to 22 percent. In
1970 the value of manufacturing production amounted to $19.3 billion.
5.        The structure of manufacturing industry has changed considerably
over the past 20 years. Rapid increases in output have occurred in heavy
industries, such as chemicals, steel and metal-working and slower increases
in such older industries as food, beverages, tobacco, textiles and other
consumer goods. Nevertheless, the food processing industry remains by
far the largest.
6.        Wqhile import substitution protected by quantitative import
restrictions has had an important influence on industrial growfth, the
expansion of M9xican industry has been accompanied by rapidly increasing
industrial exports, particularly in recent years. These exports, ex-
cluding petro-chemicals, have increased at about 25 percent a year since
1968. Whereas manufactured exports provided only 6-7 percent of commodity
exports in 1960, by the end of the decade they had grown to 19 percent
of a much larger total. Most of the gains in manufactured exports have
occurred in the categories of foodstuffs, chemicals and miscellaneous,
which include "modern" items, such as electronics and automotive parts.
The old and large textile industry has been a noticeably weak contri-
butor to exports in recent years, reflecting not only the U.S. import
quota on texctiles but also high costs and the absence of any special
design appeal in markets abroad.
Government Priorities
7.       W4hile the growth of industrial exports has been accelerating,
extport growth as a Twhole has slowed down in recent years. The balance
of payments deficit has widened substantially and has become a serious
threat to continued rapid economic development. Accordingly, the Govern-
ment of President Echeverria has, since it assumed office in December 1970,
been giving high priority to measures designed to attack this problem
as part of its policies and programs.



-3-
8.        To aid in export expansion a number of new guidelines were
issued in 1971 to stimulate "in-bond" and "border" industries and a
comprehensive set of export incentives was introduced. These incentives,
which add up to about 13 percent of production costs, include (a) duty
free temporary imports of machinery, equipment and materials for export-
oriented assembly plants, (b) refund of duties levied on imported inputs
and (c) the refunding to firms producing for export of a portion of their
domestic Federal income taxes in the form of non-transferable tax certi-
ficates valid for five years and usable to pay most Federal taxes. Eli-
gibility for these refunds was subsequently extended to trading companies
and a number of such companies have already been set up. A Foreign Trade
Institute has also been established to help industrialists in developing
markets abroad. Furthermore, the Government has established a new insti-
tution (FONEI) to help finance fixed investment mainly for export enter-
prises, supplementing the already existing export aid in the form of
export credits provided since 1964 by FOMEX and export credit guarantee
insurance under a system which was introduced in 1970.
9.        In addition to these new measures directed specifically at
export promotion, the Government has also initiated several general
policies designed to strengthen industrial efficiency and to reduce
costs of domestic industries, thus indirectly helping to expand exports.
One policy of the authorities is the denial of quantitative import pro-
tection for new products whose domestic selling prices wiould eXceed
c.i.f. import prices by more than 25 percent. Application of this policy
has been very limited thus far because of business opposition, which has
been intensified by the 1971 economic slowdown. In the face of this oppo-
sition a second step now being taken is a change in legislation to limit
corporate tat exemptions designed to encourage new industries to those
which wiould have selling prices within 25 percent of c.i.f. prices of
comparable imports or wsould contribute to geographic decentralization.
10.       Apart from trying to improve industrial efficiency, the
Echeverria Administration is also making a particular effort to develop
specific investment projects designed to aid the more rapid development
of industry in the poorer zones of Miexico with a favorable resource base.
Of prime importance is the large Las Truchas steel project, particularly
from the viewpoint of slowiing down the rapid growth of imports which
would otherwise occur with the continuation of rapid Mexican economic
growth; and various forest industry projects to meet the growth of
domestic demand and expand exports.
Prospective Bank Industrial Lending
11.       The policies and programs of the Echeverria Government have
provided a basis for the Bank to become increasingly active in industry,
after having made only one loan (for $10 million) specifically for in-
dustry in 1952 of which only $30.5 mllion was disbursed because of
persistent administrative problems. In recent years the Bank has been
providing relatively small amounts of financing for agro-industry as
part of livestock and agriculture credit loans. The present "pipeline"
includes several forest industry projects, which are at an early stage



-4-
of preparation and the Las Truchas steel project, which is expected to
be ready for consideration by the Executive Directors during FY1973.
Under current Mexican plans, external financing for this new steel plant
on the Pacific coast would be provided by a combination of Bank, IDB and
parallel financing from supplying countries. A major factor in the
decision to consider this project was the preliminary indication that
its production costs wfould be competitive with imported steel. To
help to assure that the plant would be efficiently planned and operated,
the Bank and IDB staff have recommended that Mexico contract for a con-
sulting and operating advisor. A British firm has recently been selected
for this task. As preparation and review of the project proceeds we will
be working closely with the MIexicans on the most suitable product lines
of the new plant in relation to the existing steel industry. Bank staff
have been advising the Government on the creation of a natianal steel
policy committee and will be assisting its technical staff in formulating
policies and future programs for the integration of existing steel plants
and in planning for future expansion of the steel industry.
PART III - THE PROJECT
Institutional Background
12.       The rapid growth of Mexican industry in recent decades has been
aided by the existence of a financial sector which is relatively highly
advanced among the developing countries. It consists of a mixed system
of nearly 200 private and 28 government banks, all of which operate under
the rules and regulations determined by the National Banking Commission.
iNJacional Financiera (NAFI1), one of the pioneer development banks, is the
largest Government bank and the only Government bank that extends long-
term credit to industry. The Bank of Mexico, the 45-year old central
bank, has a poTwierful role through monetary and credit policy in guiding
the flow of funds of the banking system to the various sectors of the
econormJ.
13.       Banks and financieras (development banks) in general have
developed rapidly in an environment of total currency convertibility
in which interest rates in Mexico are influenced greatly by interest
rate movements abroad. This phenomenon contributed over the years to
a competitive outward-looking mentality of the Mexican monetary policy
makers and banking community. However, it favored the use of short-
term, high-yielding, savings instruments which became the backbone of
the spectacular growth of the financieras during the 1960's. The openness
of the money markets requires "fine tuning"! of the monetary policy in-
struments. It is partly for that reason that the financial system is to
a large degree built on short-term resources, resulting in a situation
that the average Mexican enterprise has little access to long-term funds
at fixed rates of interest.
14.       An additional element of i-nportance within the Mexican system
is the existence of 10-15 identifiable industrial-financial groups, which
dominate the private sector of industry and finance.   Therefore, in the
case of well-established, large firms, there exists a close relationship
with the financial institutions which facilitate their access to financial
resources.  Loans to finance fixed capital are generally short or medium-



term with the expectation that they will be "rolled over". For those
firms which do not have this close relationship with a banking group,
access to credit on reasonable terms is very limited. It was for this
reason that Nacional Financiera,aided by the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB), set up a trust fund to provide loans of up to ten years for
small and medium-sized firms. This fund has also received support from
USAID.
Objectives
15.       The project is designed to help to reduce some of lIexico s
most pressing problems: the balance of payments deficit, industrial
inefficiency, and the lack of long-term industrial finance discussed
above. The project's main objectives are to promote industrial effi-
ciency and expand industrial capacity by providing long-term loans
based on strict project appraisal to a wide range of medium-size enter-
prises with growth and export potential. It is the product of a dialogue
between Mexico and the Bank which began in 1969 regarding the possi-
bility of the Bank's assisting the industrial sector to meet the above
objectives. Several Bank missions visited Mexico in 1970 and 1971 to
assist in the formulation of a suitable financing scheme.
Constitution of FONEI
16.       Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (FO-TEI) waS established on
October 15, 1971 by Executive Order of the lanister of Finance, as a
trust fund of the Bank of Mexico. Its supervisory body is the Technical
Committee.  On it are seven members:  two representatives of the Bank
of Mexico, two of the Finance Ministry (one of whom is the Chairman of
the Committee), one of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, one of
Nacional Financiera, and one of the Confederation of Chambers of Industry
(CONCIAIIN). FOITEI staff is selected by the Bank of Mexico and is subject
to the regulations, salary sbales and fringe benefits applicable to staff
of the Bank of Mexico.
17.       FONEI will have resources for lending equivalent to $75 million
derivedfrom the following sources:
$ rmillion
Government           non-repayable contribution          10
Bank of Mexico    : credit for not less than
20 years bearing interest
at the rate payable on
deposits of financial in-
stitu-tions                        30
Proposed Bank loan:                                      35
Total                       $75



-6-
The proceeds of the Bank loan wrill be provided by the Government to
FONEI in pesos as permanent capital on which FONTEI will pay interest
at 7-1/4 percent and a commitment charge of 3/4 percent.
Lending Operations
18.       FONEI will operate through public and private industrial credit
institutions ("participating intermediaries") selected for their financial
soundness and management capability, but will. play an active role itself
in appraisal and supervision. Apart from feasibility studies, FONEI will
finance only a proportion of the fixed asset costs of eligible projects.
Minimum FONEI financing will be $280,000 equivalent to avoid overlapping
with the Fund for Small and Medium-Sized Industry. The maximum financing
will be $3 million equivalent.  The financial intermediary and the final
borrower wqould be expected to participate in each FONEI financing operation
and the intermediary will be required to provide additional financing
from its own resources for working capital. Depending on the type of pro-
ject, FONEI would finance a madimum of 72 percent of the total cost of
fixed asset financing, and 80 percent of the total cost for feasibility
studies. FONEI will charge the intermediary 9 percent interest per year
(subject to change in consultation with the Bank, depending on market
conditions) and will collect 1 percent per year as a commitment fee on
the undisbursed balance of its loans.  The intermediary will charge the
firal beneficiary 2 percent over the borrowing rate from FOWEI and will
also pass the 1 percent annual commitment fee to them.
19.       In accordance with its objective of promoting industrial in-
vestment with a positive influence on the balance of payments, FONZTEI
would finance: (a) export projects, (b) import substitution projects
and (c) feasibility studies for such projects. To be eligible for FONEI
financing, export projects would have to show a satisfactory positive
contribution to foreign exchange earnings and import substitution projects
would have to satisfy the tests. set out in paragraph 9 above. Financial
intermediaries will be expected to evaluate the financial plan and risk
of the project, and to secure adequate collateral before submitting any
project to FONEI. They will be encouraged to appraise other than financial
aspects of the projects and eventually may be required by FONEI to do so.
However, FOUEI will make its oi,m final appraisal, and will supervise the
execution of investment plans and projects and the performance of the
borrowing enterprise.  It will also determine whether the proceeds of
its financing have been used for the purposes intended.
20.       The Bank would establish a $500,000 equivalent free limit for
individual projects, subject to an aggregate limit of $10 million eaui-
valent.  Thus, the Bank would exercise a close supervision of FONEI's
operations.  This supervision would extend also to the performance of
final borrowers, especially with regard to improved industrial efficiency
and export performance, which are the justification of the loan.   The
proceeds of the proposed loan would not be used to finance the production
of consumer goods for import substitution until FONEI and the Bank had
agreed on an eligible list of such goods. Nor could any part of the loan
be used to finance tourism projects until FONEI and the Bank had agreed on
appropriate criteria.



-7-
21.       The Bank loan wxould be disbursed by FONEI to financial inter-
mediaries for projects presented by them and approved by FOINEI.  Dis-
bursements -ould take place upon presentation of satisfactory documen-
tation of the direct foreign exchange cost of the specific industrial
project.  The financial plan elaborated by FONEI forecasts commitment
of the Bank loan within three years.
Economic Justification
22.       The proposed project is an integrated part of Mexico's efforts
to strengthen its balance of payments. It complements a series of fiscal
incentives adopted by the Mexican Government for the promotion of manu-
factured exports and the modernization of the industrial sector. It is
consistent with, and furthers, policies directed toward increasing in-
dustrial efficiency. The proposed loan wJill make it possible to finance
projects which might otherwise not be undertaken due to the scarcity
of long-term industrial financing to medium-size firms in i4exico. The
individual projects would, of course, have to show acceptable rates of
return in addition to meeting FOINEI's other economic criteria.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRIEINTS AND AUTHORITY
23.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Nacional Financiera,
S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement between the United Mexican States and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Banco de
MIexico, S.A., the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a resolution
approving the proposed loan, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
24.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART V - RECOMIENDATION
25.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Loan.
Robert S. 11c'Namara
Attachments                                           President
May 10, 1972



Annex I
Page 1
MEXICO:      uma    o
Bank Loans - at April 30, 1972
(US$ Millions)                 Amount
less
Loan     Year    Borrower                     Purpose    Cancella-     Un-
Loan  Year  Borrower                Purpose      tions     disbursed
Toans fully disbursed                      759.0     -
450hME   1966    Nacional Financiera, S.A.    Irrigation     19.0     1.9
527iME   1968    Nacional Financiera, S.A.    Irrigation     25.0    17.2
528-ME   1968    Nacional Financiera, S.A.    Roads          27.5     3.9
6594ME   1970.   Comision Federal de
Electricidad and NAFIN     Power         125.0    27.5
695-ME   1970    Nacional Financiera, S.A,    Roads          21.8    20.9
74741E   1971    Nacional Financiera, S.A.    Agriculture    75.0    62.6
793-ME   1972    Nacional Financiera, S.A.    Tourism        22.0    22.0 l/
Total                                    1,074.3   169.3
of which has been repaid to
Bank and othors                          230.2
Total now outstanding                      844.1
Amount sold:                 50.7
of which has been repaid:    46.o 407
Total now held by Bank                     839.4
Total undisbursed                                  156.0
Not yet effective.



Annex I
Pqgc 2
MlsLICO: Sumnary of
IFC Investments at April 3O, 1972
Year      EaTi2an                       Purpose      Loan    Egait     Total
($ MiJJions)
1958/1959  Industrias Perfect Circle,  Industrial    0.8        -        o.8
S.A. *                     equiprnent
1958       Bristol de Mexico, S.A. *   A/C Engine    0.5        -        0.5
Overhaul
1961       Acero Solar, S.,A. *         Twist Drills  0.3       -        0.3
1962/      Compania Fundidora Fierro   Steel         2.3        21.4    23.7
5/6/8        y Acero de Monterrey, S.A.
1963       Tubos de Acero de Mexico, S.A. Seamless   0.9         0.1     1.0
steel Pipes
1963       Quimica del Rey, S.A. *      Sodium       0.7         -       0.7
Sulphate
1964b1966  Industria del Hierro, S.A.   Const.       -           2.0     2.0
Equipment
1970       Minera del Norte, S.A.      Iron Ore
Mining        1.5         -       1.5
1971       Celanese Mexicana, S,A.     Textiles     12.0         -      12.0
Total gross commitments             19.0        23.5    42.5
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                9.0       21.7    30.7
Total commitments now held by IFC   10.0         1.8    11.8
Total undisbursed                    2.9         -       2.9
* Investments which have been fully cancelled, terninated, written off, sold,
redeemed or repaid are indicated with an asterisk.



Annex II
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO: COUNTRY DATA SHEET
Area:        2 million square kilometers
Population:  52 millitn (1971)
I.  ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Calendar Years
1960       1970        1971-R/
(Mex$ billion)
GDP                                        151         423         440
Per capita (in 6urrent US,)            334         668         708
Real growth rates (percent)              -         7.7         4.0
Structure of GDP (percent)
Agriculture, livestock, forestry      15.9        11.           -
fisheries
Mining                                 1.5         1.2          -
Industry (including petroleum and     20.4        26.0          -
petrochemicals)
Construction                           6.2         5.1          _
Power                                  1.0         1.5          -
Commerce                              31-1        30.3          _
General services                      20.5        22.0          -
Other                                  3.4         2.5          -
Money supply (percent change)                -         9.6          _
Prices (percent change)
GDP deflator                                       4 4.8        _
Mexico City wholesale index              -         6.0         3.7
Public finances
Federal Government:
current revenues                    11.0        33.6        38.0
current expenditures                 7.7        26.9        30.2
current surplus                      3.3         6.7         7.8
Federal District (Mexico City):
current surplus                      0.8         2.1         2.2
Decentralized public sector agencies:
current surplus                      3.6        5.1         n. a.
Total public sector current surplus     7.7       13.9         n.a.
a/ Preliminary



Annex II
Page 2 ef 4
Calendar Years
1960       1970        1971A/
(Mex$ billion)
Public finances (cont.)
Capital revenues                        -          1.0          0.9
Pu-blic investment                     11.2        27.0         ne
Net domestic borrowing                   1.7        8.9         n.a.
Net external borrowing                  1.8         3-2         3-5
Total borrowing                                    12.1         n.a.
Public investment financed out
of non-borrowed resources (percent)   69          55         n.'a.
Balance of payments                                 (US$ million)
Exports of goods and non-factor       1,330       3,012       3,345
services
Imports of goods and non-factor      -1,481      -3,347       3,h82
services
Balance before factor income         - 151       - 335       - 144
payments
Factor income payments (net)          - 160      - 672       -  788
Balance on current account           - 311       -1,007      - 932
Private direct investment (net)       -  38         352         394
Gross public sector borrowing for       317         932         930
investment b/
Amorti?ation of public sector         - 172      - 673       - 538
debts c/
Other capital flows (net), errors       204         396         500
and omissior.s and changes in
reserves
Public medium- and lonj-term debt
Total outstanding (end of period,        842      3,764         n.a
including undisbuzsed)
a/  Preliminary
b/ Public sector accounts figures
cl Public sector accounts data. Include short-term loans and
loans repayable in local currency.



Annex II
Page 3 of 4
Calendar Years
1960    1970    1971
(US$ million)
Debt service:
interest                                  4      217     207
amortization                             172     474     4
Total service                            216     691     651
Debt service to IBRD                                53.7    59.9
oas percent of total debt service                   7.7     9.2
Debt service ratio (percent of exports     16.2     22.9    19.5
of goods and non-factor services)
Calendar Years
1950   1960   1965   1970
III.  SOCIAL AND RELATED INDICATORS a/
a.  Population
Birth rate (per 1,000 population)  h4.7   h4.6    44.3   44.5
Death rate (per 1,000 population)   15.9   11.2    9.5    9.3
Infant mortality rate (per 1,000    96.2   74.2   60.7   67.2
live births)
Life expectancy (years)             48.8     -      -    61.8
De.pendency coefficient               .9    1.026   -     1.081
Urban population (% of total        42.5   50.7     -    58.5
population)
b. EIployment
Economically active population        -    11.3     -    15.9
(million)
Economically active population,
by sector: (% of total)
Agriculture & mining               -    55.0     -     8.0
Manufacturing, public utilities    -    18.0     -    23.0
construction
Othere                             -    27.0     -    29.0
c. Public Expenditures on Social Sectors:
% of GDP at current market prices     -      -      -     6.7
% of Public sector expenditures       -      -      -    25.0
% of Central Government expenditures -       -      -    25.0
a/  Values of some indicators are estimated from statistics
referring to different years than those in the table.



Annex II.
Page 4 of 4
Calendar Years
1950   1960   1965   1970
d. Education
Functional literacy rate (           40.0     -      -     50.0
of adult population)
Primary school enrollment (% of      39.0     -      -     70.0
school age population)
Primary school retention ratio b/     -      15.0    -     30.6
b/ Graduates over initially enrolled six years earlier.



Annex III
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAJ. EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                           Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Guarantor:                          United Mexican States
Amount:                              $35 million equivalent.  The proposed
loan would cover the project's esti-
mated foreign exchange component.
Terms and Conditions:               Payable in 20 years, including three
years of grace, at 7-1/4 percent
interest per annum.
Intermediary:                       FONEI under the Trusteeship of the
Banco de Mexico, S.A. Contractual
arrangements between the Trustee and
the Borrower will be made for the
transfer from the Borrower to FONEI of
the proceeds of the loan. FONEI will
finance eligible industrial projects
through selected financial intermediaries.
Project:                             INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Financing of fixed assets of specific
industrial projects which will generate
foreign exchange earnings or savings
through exports or efficient import
substitution, and of feasibility studies
for such projects.
Project Cost:                       $75 million equivalent, of which $40
million for local expenditures and
$35 million for imports.
Financing:                          Government non-repayable
contribution             $10 million
Bank of Mexico credit    $10 million
IBRD loan                $35 million
Total           $75 ml.lion
Procurement:                        In line with DFC procurement guidelines
Limited to Bank member countries and
Switzerland.
$ million
Estimated Disbursements:            FY-1972   FY-1973  FY-1974a FY-1975  FY-1976
2.0       8.0    11.0      12.5    1.5
Appraisal Report:                   DB-91a, May 10, 1972



Annex III
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                           Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Guarantor:                          United Mexican States
Amount:                             $35 million equivalent.   The proposed
loan would cover the project's esti-
mated foreign exchange component.
Terms and Conditions:               Payable in 20 years, including three
years of grace, at 7-1/4 percent
interest per annum.
Intermediary:                       FONEI under the Trusteeship of the
Banco de Mexico, S.A. Contractual
arrangements between the Trustee and
the Borrower will be made for the
transfer from the Borrower to FONEI of
the proceeds of the loan. FONEI will
finance eligible industrial projects
through selected financial intermediaries.
Project:                             INDUSTRIAL EQUIPM4ENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Financing of fixed assets of specific
industrial projects which will generate
foreign exchange earnings or savings
through exports or efficient import
substitution, and of feasibility studies
for such projects.
Project Cost:                       $75 million equivalent, of which $h0
million for local expenditures and
$35 million for imports.
Financing:                          Government non-repayable
contribution             $10 million
Bank of Mexico credit    $10 million
IBRD loan                $35 m-llion
Total           $75 million
Procurement:                        In line with DFC procurement guidelines
Limited to Bank member countries and
Switzerland.
$ million
Estimated Disbursements:            FY-1972   FY-1973  FY-197h  FY-1975  FY-1976
2.0       8.0    11.0      12.5    1.5
Appraisal Report:                   DB-91a, May 10, 1972



Annex IV
Page 1
EXTRACT FR(li TIE PRESIDEMTS REPORT AUD RE3OI-DAIDATIOUS (1i A PROPOSED
LOAUN TO N1ACIGCIAL FIVICIERA, FCR A PORTS PROJECT (P-1036 DATED APRIL 19,
1972.);             -
8.        *-exico, with a GDP of around -35 billion a year, ranks closely
behind Brazil as the Bank's second largest borrower in terms of loans
outstanding. Its economy is comparable in size to Brazil and larger than
that of any other country to which the Bank Group is lending except India.
1,exico has been remarkably successful in sustaining a 6-7 percent annual
growth rate over a period of 15 years, with only a moderate increase in
the general price level. This achievement is attributable to a unique
combination of historical and geographical factors, intelligent economic
and financial policies (exhibiting a high degree of pragmatism and freedom
from economic dogma) and a continuity in economic management unparalleled
elsewhere in Latin America. Taxation has been kept low (around 9 percent
of GDP), but private savings have been encouraged, and a considerable
prOportion of these savings has been channelled into the public sector
thirough the banking system. Iational savings have been maintained at
close to one-fifth of GDP, and although there has been a significant
increase in the extermal deficit on current account since 1968, this
still constitutes less than 3 percent of GDP.
9.        There is another side of the picture to which attention has
been dratrn in my previous reports on iexico. Of all countries in the
world uith populations of comparable size, 1.exico has the fastest demogra-
phic growth rate. `-Bhile per capita  income at current prices has risen
from `200-250 a year in the middle 1950's to about 4700 a year today, the
increase in income has been very unevenly distributed. iJhile organized
workers and the grow-ing middle class have shared in the benefits of
economic development and a few people have become very rich, relatively
little has been done to alleviate rural poverty. Some 40 percent of the
population still depends on agriculture for a living, but agriculture
accounts for only 11 or 12 percent of the national income. itithin the
aCricultural sector itself there is a sharp contrast betweel the prosper-
ous conditions of the larger private farms, particularly in the irrigated
north and along the coast of the Gulf of iiexico, and the desperate poverty
of the small farmers in the central plateau and along the central and south
Pacific Coast. Rural edtucation and healtlh have not been given much at-
tention; and away from the maini roads, communications in most parts of
the country are still quite primitive.
10.       The Administration of President Echeverria, wihich took office at
the end of 1970, has laid great stress on the need to improve the conditions
of the poor and to correct inequalities in income. At the same time, how-
ever, the Government has been forced to recognize the ccnstraints imposed
on the gro,wth of the economy by the w-jidening gap betueen imports and ex-
ports and the increasing external debt which has kept the debt service
ratio above 20 percent in recent years. First priority has accordingly
been given to changes in economic policy and improvements in economic
managerment required to maintain a satisfactory overall growth. As noted
in mny last report on 1iexico, a series of newi tax measures wzas enacted in



Annex IV
Page 2
late 1970, sugar prices w7ere increased, and steps were taken to strengthen
central control of public borrowing. At the same time, neax emphasis was
given to export promotion, and a scheme was introduced under which manu-
factured exports are entitled to tax rebates up to 10 percent of export
value. A second fiscal package was adopted early this year, including
a neti tax on income froma fixed-interest securities, an increase in mar-
ginal rates of personal income tax and tax incentives for industrial in-
vestment.  There is also a ner tax, equivalent to 5 percent of enter-
prise payrolls, the proceeds of which are to be used to finance workers'
housing through a .;ational H-lousing Fund. The two tax paclcages together,
excluding the housing tax, are expected to increase federal tax revenues
by about 10 percent and should raise the ratio of taxes to GDP by approxi-
mately one percentage point.
11.       Public investment was deliberately held down in 1971 to protect
the balance of payments, and this was one reason why the real growth of
GDP slowed do-mr to 3 or 4 percent, producing something of a recession from
uhich industry may now be slowly recovering. On the more positive side,
there appears to have been a net reduction in medium and long-term ex-
ternal public indebtedness during 1971, mnade possible in part by a small
improvement in the current balance of paymLents, but more importantly by
a large inflowi of short-term finds. Intermational reserves increased by
y200 million during the year and now- stand at well over 4 billion.
12.       Improved external debt management has been reflected in the
terms on which the .exican auttorities borrowed in international capital
markcets during 1971. For example, loans with maturities of 1 - 5 years,
mi. ch accounted for over 40 percent of total external public borrowi.ng
in 1970, rmde up only 12 percent of such borrowing during the first 9
months of last year. Tuo major operations concluded with consortia of
foreign banks for a total of ,220 million carry final maturities of 8
and 10 years from signing, with a grace period of 4 years in each case.
The public issue of D.100 million in Gennany in Iovember 1971 had a term
of 15 years, including 5 years o2 grace. Another issue of 9'40 million,
marketed in leu York. a short tile ago has a term of 15 years. This im-
provement in the terms of borrowing from private sources iill makle it
easier for Iiexico to support a continued high rate of economic expansion
without endangering its credit standing abroad. There is, however, little
prospect of the country obtaining all the external capital it needs on
extended terms without substantial contributions from the IBRD and the
ID13 which axe the only official lending agencies in a position to offer
development assistance o, nion-commercial terms.
13.       Public savings in !exico must also be increased if expenditures
on rural development and social services are to be raised to more adequate
levels, and this has been a constant theme of the Banlkts economic reports.
As a result of the tax measures already described, there does appear to
have been some increase in federal government savings during 1971, and
the savings of the Federal District also improved slightly. On the other
hand, there has been a decline in the total savings of the three major
public enterprises (the national petroleum company, the federal parer com-
mission and the railroads) from iiex.3 billion in 1970 to laex9'2.1 billion
in 1971, and this trend needs to be reversed - a matter of special concern
to the Bank in view of the proposed loans for railuays and power.



Annex IV
Page 3
14.       The primary objective of Bank lending to .-Nxico has always been
to support the grotwth of the econony by providing long-temn capital for
projects that can both benefit from the Bank's special expertise and
promise high developmental returns. At the same time, in the case of
the power program and the steel project now under consideration, both of
itich have large import components, Banlc participation helps lifexico to
organize financing from other sources on the basis of broad international
competitive bidding. The Banlc has been associated vith the power sector
since 194c, and while the federal parer cornission, with the BankIs
encouragement, noxi looits to export credits to meet a significant propor-
tion of its extemal capital requirements under joint or parallel fin-
ancing arrangerents, the .exican authorities attach great importance to
a continuation of Bank lending for power, particularly for financing
the foreign exchange costs of civil works and equipment for transmission
and distribution. The !Lexican Government has also sought the Bank's
financial and technical assistance for the development of the transport
sector, initially mainly for roads, but since the 1970 sector study, for
ports and raili!ayrs as well.
15.       Powser and transport apart, the Bankl is giving special emphasis
to projects uhich directly help to strengthen the balance of payments,
since the balan-lo of payments is liable to be a critical constraint on
economic deve.lo,ment in an econonr tied to free convertibility of its
currency and heavily dependent at the margin on private capital inflow.
hlis has been an important- consideration in past lending for irrigation
(cotton) and tourism and in the lending noE proposed for a news industrial
fund. Additionally, now tlhat it is the declared policy of the .exJican
Government to give more attiention to the quality of economic develop-
ment, especially in rural areas, the Dank is interested in giving what
support it can to programs for education and rural development, and a
considerable amount of staff time is currently being devoted to the
identification of possible projects in these two sectors. HIowever, the
capital expenditures Livolved are li1kely to be quite small. Finally,
in view of the great potential scarcity of water in hTexico, plans are
going ahead for a national water stutr to be carried out waith the Bank's
help, possibly with some financing froir the UUIDP, and a project for the
supply of water to liexico City and adjacent urban areas is scheduled
for appraisal shortly.
16.       The choice of 3ank projects in ;.exico is naturally governed to
an ixiportant extent by the priorities of the Liexican Government and by
the availability of financing froma other sources. Since in the past the
Inter-American Development 3anlk has been able to provide soft loans for
projects of a social character, and has also been more liberal in
financinig local costs, Lexico has sought its assistance in preference to
that of the I3TD for such projects as feeder roads and minor irrigation
works.  hle main contribution to the extemal financingj of industrial
development in `exico has come frol e:xport credit agencies and private
sources. 0ver the period 1966-70, the 3ank accoi.u±ted for 11 percent of
the flow of medium and long-term capital to Lexico and the TDB for 5 per-
cent. Tihese proportions are like4l to be siCnificantly h-igher in future



Annex IV
Page 4
in conformity lith the ilexican Government's aim of improving its external
debt structure, but the greater part of the capital which i!exico requires
from abroad will continue to come from private financial institutions
and export credit agencies. "



