RESTRICTED
Report No. DB-91a
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
FONDO DE EQUIPAMIENTO INDUSTRIAL
(FONEI)
MEXICO
May 10, 1972
DevelopmentFinance Companies Department



CUXRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
currency unit = peso
Exchange rate effective May 10, 1972
US$ 1.00 = Mex$ 12.50
Mex$1.00 = US$   0.08
ABBREVIATIDNS
BANXICO        Banco de Mexico, S.A. (Central Bank of Mexico)
NAFIN          Nacional Financiera S.A. (National Financiera)
ROMEX          Fondo para el Fomento de las Exportaciones de
Productos Manufacturados (Fund to Promote Exports
of Manufactured Products)
INFRATUR       Fondo de Promocion de Inversiones de Infraestructura
Turistica (Fund to Promote Tourism Infrastructure)
INCE           Instituto Mexicano de Comercio Exterior (Mexican
Foreign Trade Institute)
CONCANIN       Confederacion de Camaras de Industrias (Confederation
of Chambers of Industry)
INIT           Instituto Mexicano de Investigaciones Tecnologicas
(Mexican Institute of Technological Research)
LAFTA          Latin American Free Trade Association
ECLA           Economic Commission for Latin America
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
AID            Agency for International Development



APPRAISAL OF FONDO DE EQUIPAMIENTO INDUSTRIAL (FONEI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMLARY             ................................                    i
I. INTRODUCTION ........................................    1
II. THE INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENT .................                       1
III. INDUSTRIAL FINANCING ................................    3
Financial Institutions ......        ...................          3
Problems of Industrial Credit .......................             5
IV. FONEI'S ORGANIZATION AND OPERATIONS ....            .............    6
General Objectives .......       ....................             6
Legal Basis and Organization .....        .................       6
Management and Staff ...... ................                    7
Participating Intermediaries .....        .................       8
Selection of Intermediaries .....        ................       9
Role of Intermediaries .....        ...................         9
Types of Project Loans ......        ...................          9
Export Projects .......         ............................   10
Efficient Import Substitution Projects ..........        ..   10
Tourism Projects .......         ...........................   10
Feasibility Studies ......         .........................   10
Resources          ...........................................   11
Terms and Limits of Financing .......................   11
Prospects for FONEI ......         ...........................   13
V. THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN ..............................   14
Amount and Purpose ................................   14
Disbursement and Procurement ......................   14
VI. CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......................   15
Conclusions .........................................   15
Recommendations .....................................   15
This report is based on the findings of a mission to Mexico by Messrs.
Manuel J. Sequeira and Donald Stout in November-December 1971.






LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   Indexes of Industrial Output
2.   Portfolio Requirements of the Banking System
3.   Characteristics of Financial Paper Issued by Financieras
4.   Types, Sources, Maturities and Interest of Credit Extended
to Industry by the Private Banking System
5.   Total Domestic Financing Granted Annually to the Private
Sector
6.   Executive Order of October 15, 1971
7.   Contract signed between the Ministry of Finance and the
Central Bank (as Trustee of FONEI). October 29, 1971
8.   Addendum to the Contract of October 29, 1971
9.   Operating Regulations
10.   Organization
11.   Composition of FONEI's Technical Commitee
12.   Curricula Vitae (Messrs. Cano, Acevedo, Gonzalez-Karg)
13.   Projected Sources and Uses of Funds, 1972-76
14.   Projected Balance Sheets, 1972-76
15.   Projected Income Statements, 1972-76
16.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule






APPRAISAL OF FONDO DE EQUIPAMIENTO INDUSTRIAL (FONEI)
SUMMARY
i.        During the 1960's the Mexican economy grew at an average annual
rate of 7.1% and the industrial sector grew even faster, largely because of
protected import substitution. This protection has increasingly aggravated
problems of industrial efficiency and of the balance of payments. Since
1969, the Bank has maintained a dialogue with the Mexican Government regard-
ing effective policies and financing for domestic and export industries.
These discussions contributed to Government adoption of concrete policy
measures to promote exports and industrial efficiency, and to the establish-
ment, on October 15, 1971, of the Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI)
(Industrial Equipment Fund). The proposed Bank loan of US$35 million would
supplement the official Mexican resources of US$40 million equivalent and
finance the import component of FONEI's operations.
ii.       Long-term funds for industrial investment are scarce in Mexico and
are available almost exclusively from government-owned banks. Private bank-
ing resources overwhelmingly are short-term. Even investment banks, which
are permitted to lend for up to 15 years and were expected to be the princi-
pal long-term lenders to the private sector, have been constrained by the
short-term nature of their resources to concentrate on much shorter-term
lending.
iii.      FONEI was established as a Government trust fund to facilitate
investment financing of medium-sized industrial enterprises producing for
export or for efficient import substitution. The Banco de Mexico S. A.
(BANXICO), which is the central bank, will act as trustee. For all practi-
cal purposes FONEI staff will be BANXICO employees. The people thus far
selected for the key jobs appear to be well qualified and experienced.
FONEI's direct borrowers will be the eligible intermediaries, which will
channel FONEI financing to iadustrial enterprises. FONEI will make loans
to the intermediary or will discount paper resulting from its previously
made loans. The intermediaries will be expected to evaluate the financial
plan and risk of the project, and to secure adequate collateral before sub-
mitting any project to FONEI. However, FONEI will be responsible for overall
project appraisal.
iv.       FONEI will finance specific projects which will generate or save
foreign exchange through exports or efficient import substitution; it will
also finance feasibility studies for such projects. Eligible export projects
must give promise of generating exports on a continuing basis, and must de-
monstrate an ability to earn, without special subsidies, enough foreign ex-
change to exceed foreign exchange expenditures of the project, including im-
ported inputs and depreciation of imported equipment required for the produc-
tion of export goods. Import substitution projects, which are expected to be
a relatively small part of FONEI's operations, will be limited to those which
can produce at no more than 25% above the c.i.f. price of comparable imported
goods. Tourism projects cculd also be financed after FONEI establishes speci-
fic criteria for such projects, acceptable to the Bank. FONEI may also absorb
part of the cost of feasibility studies not followed by project investment,



- ii -
but which FONEI considers promising. It would become the owner of such studies
and as conditions change, might make them available for adaptation and use by
potential investors.
v.        Including the proposed Bank loan, FONEI resources will total US$75
million equivalent. The Mexican Government will provide FONEI with resources
for the repayment of the principal, thereby increasing its initial contribu-
tion to FONEI's resources over the amortization period of the proposed Bank
loan. The cash flow projections forecast that a Bank loan of US$35 million
would be exhausted by the end of the third year following loan effectiveness.
vi.       The proposed Bank loan would be used for expenditures made or to be
made for financing approved to select intermediaries for eligible projects.
The proceeds of the loan would finance only the c.i.f. cost of direct imports
of goods and services from the Bank's member countries and Switzerland. The
off-the-shelf purchases would be financed on the basis of c.i.f. price, when
it can be established.
vii.      FONEI would be given a free limit of US$500,000 equivalent subject
to an aggregate limit of US$10 million equivalent.
viii.     Subject to the terms and conditions defined in Chapter VI, FONEI
is a suitable recipient of a Bank loan of US$35 million for twenty years with
a three-year grace period and a fixed amortization schedule.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In the late 1960's increasing Mexican preoccupation with the deteri-
orating balance of payments and with high industrial production costs led the
Government to revise industrial policies, and to adopt a series of incentives
to promote industrial exports. The Bank and the Government have engaged in a
continuing dialogue since 1969 in search of a vehicle for lending to the in-
dustrial sector which would have a positive effect on the balance of payments
as well as on industrial efficiency. Several Bank missions visited Mexico to
assist in the formulation of a suitable financial scheme.
1.02      On October 15, 1971 the Mexican Government established the Fondo de
Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI) (Industrial Equipment Fund) as a trust fund
of the Mexican Government. Banco de Mexico S.A. (BANXICO), the Central Bank,
was designated as trustee. Using financial intermediaries, the new fund will
finance investments in specific projects which demonstrate a capability to ex-
port or to substitute efficiently for imports.1/ The Government of Mexico has
asked for a US$35 million Bank loan to support FONEI's operations.
II. THE INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENT
2.01      The growth of Mexico's GDP averaged 7.1% annually during the 1960's
but the industrial sector grew even faster. Until recently import substitu-
tion was an important factor in industrial development. Mexico now faces a
situation where, despite extensive import substitution, the absolute volume
of industrial imports keeps growing and where the industrial sector fails to
generate the ability to pay for the increase in imports which growth inevita-
bly demands. The development of industrial exports is now needed to open the
Mexican economy and create a climate of competition and industrial efficiency.
2.02      The current account deficit averaged about 2% of total GDP during
the 1960's, increasing to about 2.3% of GDP during the years in which the
rate of economic growth rose above the average. If the Mexican economy is
to continue growing at the same rate as in the past, overall export earnings
should increase at about 11.3% a year, compared with a historical performance
of about 9% a year.2/ This underlies the Government's concern for export
promotion.
2.03      Mexico is among the more industrialized countries of Latin America,
and has a sizeable capital goods sector. Its industrial output has changed
considerably over the past 20 years and is now widely diversified. Recent
1/   This approach is an adaptation of the method already employed in three
Bank loans to Mexico for agricultural development (Loan 430, 1965, US$25
million; Loan 610, 1969, US$65 million; and Loan 747, 1971, US$75 million).
2/   The Mexican economy is reviewed in the November 15, 1971 Report
"Current Economic Position and Prospects of Mexico".



-2-
years have seen the rapid growth of heavy industries such as steel, metal-
working and chemicals. Industries in this category are large, eith-r publicly
owned or private with likely foreign connections. Consumer goods industries,
such as food, beverages, tobacco and textiles, were growing at a slower rate
(Annex 1); they are predominantly private and their size varies considerably.
A third group of industiHies consists of medium-size enterprises producing
intermediate goods, supplies, components, spare parts, tools, simple machinery,
etc. They are often young and poorly organized. Owing to a protected and
growing market, these firms have a favorable environment for rapid growth but
have been hampered by the lack of suitable credit and by low productivity.
2.04      Industrialization has been encouraged by moderate taxes, generous
depreciation allowances and low wages, but protection against competitive
imports has been the major factor. Protection has taken the form of a licens-
ing system rather than tariffs; tariffs are actually lowet than in most Latin
American countries but some two-thirds of the value of imports are subject to
licensing. While the system undoubtedly stimulated industrial development,
the lack of market competition tolerated inefficiency, led to high domestic
prices and limited the capacity for continued growth.
2.05      Increasing manufacturing costs and balance of payments pressure
have induced the present Mexican Government to alter past industrial policies.
The authorities' stated intention is to reduce costs of domestic industries
by denying quantitative protection to new products whose ex-factory prices
would exceed the c.i.f. cost of imiport substitutes by more than 25%. The
economic slowdown of 1971 liiiited the Government ability to implement these
policies. Fiscal benefits are to be granted only to export firms, to those
new industries which meet the above efficiency criterion and to those fitting
into the Government's program of geographic decentralization.
2.06      The Government is also determined to boost industrial exports.
In March 1971, a number of incentives for manufacturing exports were adopted;
old incentives were reviewed and their scope was extended. The most important
measures follow:
(a)  Refunds of part of import duties on inputs, which were
previously limited to products with at least an 80%
domestic input content, were made variable depending
on the percentage of locally produced inputs incorporated
in the export product. Since its inception, this scheme,
has been applied quasi-automatically with a minimum of
red tape; it amounts to a refunc averaging 13% of production
costs in the form of non-transferable tax certificates.
(b)  The border industries program, established in 1966, allowed
duty-free temporary imports of machinery, equipment and
materials by export-oriented assembly plants along the
U.S. border. Under the new incentive legislation, these



- 3 -
provisions also apply to domestic firms supplying border
industries. 1/
(c) "In-bond" plants can now be established in any Mexican
port or free zone. Rules were also liberalized regarding
the time during which imports could be granted transit
status.
(d) The Mexican Foreign Trade Institute (IMCE) was created to
assist industrialists in market research and production
design, and to advise the Government on tariff policy,
trade controls, fiscal incentives and export credits.
2.07      In January 1972, the Government also removed some of the obstacles
which discouraged the development of export trading companies and specialized
export intermediaries now qualify for additional fiscal rebates on sales
abroad.
2.08      Finally, the Mexican authorities decided to facilitate investment
financing for export enterprises and established FONEI for this purpose.
III. INDUSTRIAL FINANCING
Financial Institutions
'3.01      The principal Mexican financial institutions are BANXICO, Government
banks, commercial banks, investment banks (financieras) and mortgage and hous-
ing banks. The National Banking Commission is the top policy and regulatory
body. It is composed of representatives of BANXICO, the Ministry of Finance,
and commercial and Government banks. Banking regulations are rigorously en-
forced and the Commission does not hesitate to impose heavy penalties for
violation and has, on occasion, closed financial institutions which failed
to comply with its requirements.
3.02      National Banking Commission policies are implemented by BANXICO.
In agreement with the Ministry of Finance, it regulates reserve requirements,
portfolio requirements, interest rates, lending fees and foreign operation
limits. Although BANXICO provides only very limited credit, it does channel
resources to the private sector from various funds that it manages. BANXICO
administers five Central Government trust funds in addition to FONEI. The
three main ones are: Fondo para el Fomento de las Exportacions de Productos
Manufacturados (FOMEX) (Fund to Promote Exports of Manufactured Products),
Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderia y Avicultura
1/   Border plants have been mushrooming during the past few years and now
number about 330. Most of the plants assemble electronic equipment,
clothing and toys. The total value-added exported by these industries
is about US$80 million p.a.



-4-
(Development and Guarantee Fund for Agriculture, Livestock and Poultry) 1/
and Fondo de Promocion de Infraestructura Turistica (INFRATUR)2/ (Fund for
Promotion of Toutism Infrastructure). The first two funds channel resources
to the private sector by rediscounting loans granted to final borrowers by
financial intermediaties.
3.03      The Mexican banking system consists of 28 government banks and
some 200 private commercial banksi  In addition, there are about 60 private
foreign baniks of which ohly the First National City Bank is allowed to re-
ceive domestic deposits; all others must operate with foreign funds.
3.04      Government banks financt, on concessional terms, a wide range of
specialized activites, such as housing, agriculture and the "ejidos" (com-
munal farms).  Naciohal Financiera S. A. (NAFIN) is the main development
finance inatitution of the Government, specializing in industrial credit.
Besides, NAPIN owns or controls an important number of industrial enterprises.
About 70% of its industtial financing goes to publicly owned enterprises in-
cluding its own. NAFIN is also a trustee fo'r nine governmental trust funds.
Among the most important is Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la Pequena y
Mediana Industria (Guarantee and Development Fund for Small and Medium-Sized
Industry).3/ NAFIN is also the finaneial agent of the Mexican Government for
conrtractig foreign loans.  In addition, NAFIN, which expects to be an eligible
intermediary for NONEI financitig, wa- recently given the right to appoint one
member of FONEI's Technical CommLttee (see paras. 4.03, 4.04 and 4.05).
3.05      Cotmercial banks provide credit to commerce, agriculture and industry,
mainly on a short-term basis.  Although BANXICO regulations permit commercial
banks to lend for up to 10 yeats, the capacity of commercial banks to grant
long-term credit is effectively limited by their lack of long-term resources.
They make longet-term loans mainly when they are able to utilize the long-term
resources of the Government's special purpose funds, such as the agricultural
or industrial funds.
1/   This Fund was established in 1955 to support and promote agricultural and
livestock development. It has received three World Bank loans totaling
US$165 million. A direct result of the Fund's operations has been to
lengthen somewhat the terms of loans to final borrowers. When the first
IBRD loan was granted, private banks generally made loans for no more
than three years. Under the terms of the second Bank loan, sub-loans
have been granted for a minimum of three years; the average term has
been six years.
2/   The Bank recently approved a loan of US$22 million to INFRATUR.
3/   This Fund rediscounts loans granted by financial intermediaries to pri-
vate industry. The upper limit of its operations is US$280,000 equiva-
lent. The rate of interest to final borrowers varies between 9% and 11%
p.a. Maturities are up to 10 years. The Fund has received several
loans from AID and IDB.



- 5 -
3.0      Almost all of the private fiantcierlls were oran ize.ld byv cuolmlmerCial
banking groups, often in association with in(dustrial interests.  The finan-
cieras are permitted to lend for up to 15 years, and were intended to be long-
term lenders to the private sector, but the scarcity of long-term resources
has limited their capacity to do so. Nevertheless, they have been the most
dynamic and profitable financial institutions in Mexico, largely because they
enjoyed much more freedom of action than the commercial banks. In 1970, fi-
nancieras were responsible for 40% of the total domestic credit, one-fourth
of which went to the public and three-fourths to the private sector. The
ten largest financieras account for about 75% of the total credit granted by
financieras. FONEI expects the financieras to be its principal financial
intermediaries.
3.07      The financieras obtain funds by selling their own bonds and other
financial paper. (Annex 3 shows the main characteristics of these instruments.)
These obligations are completely liquid since the financiera is willing to re-
purchase them on demand. This makes them more attractive to the public and
compensates, in part, for the lack of a secondary market. 1/ Concerned about
this quasi-cash characteristic of the financieras' paper, in the early 1960's
the monetary authorities imposed a ceiling on the annual rate of growth of
these instruments. In 1965, BANXICO permitted the financieras to issue fi-
nancial certificates which bear higher yields than other financiera paper but
are not redeemable upon demand.
3.08      Interest rates to industry vary considerably.  Commercial banks
cannot lend at more than a nominal 12% p.a.; but their common practice of
insisting on minimum compensating balances increases the real rate of in-
terest. Financieras have no upper limit on their lending rates, which vary
with the security of the borrower and the length of the loan. The average
has been 13-15% p.a. in recent years. (Annex 4 summarizes the main types of
industrial credit currently in use in Mexico.)
Problems of Industrial Credit
3.09      Between 1963 and 1970 total domestic credit extended to the private
sector more than doubled, but industry's percentage of the total was not main-
tained (Annex 5). There was a clear trend toward short-term commercial credit,
whose share of total domestic credit increased from 18% to 25%. As a result,
the industrial enterprise in need of outside financing often had to use short-
term credit to finance investments in fixed assets. Those loans are usually
contracted with a tacit understanding that, when mature, they will be rolled
over but the extension of the maturity is still contingent upon the availabi-
lity of resources (and liquidity requirements of the credit institution). Of
total domestic credit granted by the MIexican banking system as of December 31,
1970, only 18% carried maturities of five years or more.
1/   Several Mexican brokers specialize in receiving resources from foreign
savers to buy bonds and other paper. It is impossible to quantify the
amount of such foreign resources but it is quite large.



-6-
3.10      Financing of industrial projects is further handicapped by the high
collateral normally required by the credit institutions and their practice of
insisting on a debt/equity ratio no greater than one-to-one.
3.11      As most of the financieras were organized in association with
industrial interests, industrial enterprises which are not directly associ-
ated with a financiera meet difficulties in obtaining project financing.
3.12      Not all of the industrial enterprises are affected by the previous
problems in the same way. The large industrial enterprises in the public
sector are mainly financed by NAFIN; those owned by the private sector, often
in association with foreign interests, can usually borrow directly from for-
eign commercial banks on almost the same terms available to foreign industrial
enterprises. The small enterprises have access to the trust fund administered
by NAFIN. But a middle group of enterprises, which have begun to change over
from family-run operations to professionally managed companies, often en-
counter most of the problems previously identified. It is this group of
industries to which FONEI will be addressing itself most effectively.
IV. FONEIVS ORGANIZATION AND OPERATIONS
General Objectives
4.01      FONEI is designed to address itself to some of Mexico's most pressing
problems: the balance of payments, industrial efficiency and the structure of
industrial financing. Its objective is to promote the efficient production
of industrial goods and services which, by supplying export markets or subs-
tituting for imports, would generate or save foreign exchange.
Legal Basis and Organization
4.02      FONEI was established by Executive Order of the Ministry of Finance
of October 15, 1971, as a trust fund of BANXICO (Annex 6). On October 29, 1971,
a Trust Agreement was signed between the Minister of Finance and BANXICO pro-
viding for the initial funding of FONEI and setting up the organizational
basis for its operations (Annex 7); an addendum to the agreement with respect
to NAFIN membership in the Technical Committee was signed on April 6, 1972
(Annex 8). As trustee, BANXICO assumes responsibility for FONEI's activities,
including staff appointments and preparation of the annual budget. FONEI has
its own Operating Regulations (Annex 9). The Bank has reviewed the above
documents and found them satisfactory. Any change in the Trust Agreement,
which will adversely and materially affect the carrying out of the project
would be a condition of default. During negotiations assurances have been
obtained that the Regulations not be changed without prior Bank approval.
FONEI also has its own operating manuals which have been reviewed and found
satisfactory. The organization of FONEI is described in the following para-
graphs; an organizational chart is shown in Annex 10.



- 7 -
4.03      The Technical Committee is the supervising body of FONEI.  It has
responsibility for: (a) adopting and amending FONEI's organization, policies
and operational rules; (b) approving loans granted by foreign or interna-
tional financial organizations; (c) reviewing and approving FONEI's annual
budget and its submission to the Ministry of Finance for final approval; and
(d) selecting financial intermediaries.  In addition, it will approve all
individual loans granted by FONEI and make decisions regarding financing or
acquisition of feasibility studies.
4.04      The Technical Committee consists of seven members: two representatives
of BANXICO, two of the Ministry of Finance (one of whom is the Chairman of the
Committee), one of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, one of NAFIN and one
of the Confederacion de Camaras de Industrias (CONCAMIN) (Confederation of
Chambers of Industry). Its present membership is shown in Annex 11. The
present Chairman of the Technical Committee is Mr. Mario Ramon Beteta, Under-
Secretary of Finance, who has been active in promoting the recent changes in
industrial policies (para. 2.06).  The presence on the Committee of Mr.
Alejandro Alvarez Guerrero, Pre$ident of CONCAMIN, is an indication of the
high priority that the Mexican private sector gives FONEI. The Committee will
meet as often as neces$ary.  The status of the Technical Committee's members
might prevent them from regularly attending meetings; however, the Committee
has also seven Alternate  embers, all of whom are technicians with broad
industrial experience, who may su,bstitute for the regular members.
4.05      NAFIN is expected to be among FONEI's financial intermediaries
because NAFIN it the only public financial institution engaged in industrial
financing. It hxa,s b,road experience in industrial matters; it has branches
all over the cou9nt,ry; and, finally, it is the only financial institution
without close ties'to any partiqular group of industrialists. NAFIN is ex-
pected to be pa,rticularly helpful in promoting industrial decentralization
and opening finAncing possibilities to industrial enterprises lacking lever-
age with private financial Institutions. Industrial enterprises controlled
by NAFIN are not likely to be eligible for FONEI financing because of their
size and th  vai1ab$lity of alternative sources of finance (para. 4.13).
The decision to give NAFIN the right to appoint a member of FONEI's Technical
Committee suggests a possible conflict of interest in relation to NAFIN's
participation a,s intermediary. However, the important role NAFIN can play
in financing unallied enterprises, especially outside the principal indus-
trial centers, is an adequate justification for NAFIN to act as an inter-
mediary. The Bank is satisfied that no conflict of interest would arise as
result of NAFIN particip4;ion as intermediary.
4.06      Management and Staff.  FONEI staff is selected by BANXICO and is
subject to 'its-re"egulationsi, salary scales and fringe benefits.  For all
practical purposes they are BANXICO employees.  The Chief Executive officer
of FONEI is the Fiduciary Delegate (Administrator).  He attends the Tech-
nical Committee meetings without the right to vote and is responsible for
implementing thpe Conittee'$ decisions.  He supervises FONEI operations and
recommends on changes in FONEI's organization, policies and operating rules.
The Fiduciary Delegate is Mr.  Lergio Luis Cano, a former Under-Secretary of



Industry and Co6tmrce.  An economist by training, he has a broad knowledge
of industrial problems and is highly tegarded by the industrial and banking
communities.  The Chief of the Operations Department, Mr. Raul Acevedo Cortez,
has a great deal of experience in lending operations. He has come to FONEI
with almost seven years of continucus service with FOMEX, lastly as Deputy
Director of Operations. The Central Bank selected Mr. Heberto Gonzalez-Karg
as Chief of the Technical Department. He has had special training in project
preparation and evaluation with the Inter-American Development Bank. (Cur-
ricula vitae of Messrs. Cano, AceVedo and Gonzalez-Karg are in Annex 12).
4.07      The people thus far selected for the key positions are well qualified
to supervise FONEI's operations.  Ih addition, BANXICO is committed to the
success of FONEI ahd its staff will be available to assist FONEI whenever
necessary. FONEI's Technical Department will have the support of the Insti-
tuto Mexicano de Investigaciones Tecnologicas (IMIT), (Mexican Institute of
Technological Research) in the appraisal of industrial projects. 1/  IMIT is
a semi-public otganization, pattially financed by BANXICO, with experience
in project preparation and appraisal. With its more than 80 specialists
in different industrial subjects IMIT will complement FONEI's own staff
abilities.
4.08      Ad aspect that was given special consideration was the fact that
IMIT is also doing feasibility studies for private industrial firms. This
might involve a conflict of interest. Mr. Ernesto Fernandez Hurtado, Manag-
ing Director of BANXICO, assured the Bank that Mr. Ignacio Deschamps, IMIT
President, who it also a member of FONEI S Technical Committee, will not
participate it decisions by that Cotmmittee on any project prepared by IMIT.
The Bank is satisfied that such a coniflict of interest situation will not
arise.
Participating .1termediarie$
4.09      FONEI's dire6t borrowers will be the eligible intermediaries which
will channel FONEI financing t6 industrial enterprises. This practice is
common in MeXico and has been used by the Government in the case of other
funds admistered by BANXICO and NAFIN. Financing can be provided in two ways:
(a) FONEI can grant loans to the intermediary which, in turn, will lend to
industrialists; or (b) FONE! can partially discount paper already held by the
intermediary, as a result of loans made by them, except in the case of feasi-
bility studies. In the first case, the intermediary does not sign the loan
contract with the beneficiary until after FONEI has received and approved the
project. In the second case, the intermediary makes the loan and disburses
it at its own risk before submission of the project to FONEI. Most of FONEI's
financing is likely to take the first form.
1/   IMIT also assists in the appraisal of agro-business project financed
by the agricultural fund.



- 9 -
4.10      Selection of Intermediaries.  Financial intermediaries will be
selected from the existing public and private credit institutions engaged in
industrial financing, on the basis of their compliance with Mexican banking
laws and regulations, financial soundness, management capability, and ability
to supplement the financing provided by FONEI (including working capital) to
meet in full the external financing requirement of the project. Accordingly,
financieras, commercial banks and NAFIN would be potential intermediaries.
Commercial banks are not expected to request FONEI financing because they
lack the long-term resources needed to complement it, and do not have the
habit or the aptitude of lending on long-term. Consequently, NAFIN and the
financieras are the most likely intermediaries. It is expected that only
about 15 - 20 financieras will qualify. Financial institutions can apply
for qualification, either before or at the time they submit a loan applica-
tion. In view of their limited role in project appraisal, it is not proposed
that the Bank appraise nor approve them for participation in the proposed
loan. This function will be left to FONEI, whose staff is capable of execut-
ing it. FONEI would submit a certification to the Bank to the effect that
each intermediary meets the eligibility criteria, together with copies of
its latest a4dited financial statements, as well as yearly audited financial
statements thereafter.
4.11      Role of Intermediaries.  The intermediaries will be expected to
evaluate the financial plan and risk of the project, and to secure adequate
collateral before submitting any project to FONEI. They will be encouraged
to appraise other than financial aspects of the projects, and eventually
might be required by FONEI to do so. However, FONEI will do the full appraisal
and follow-up of the project. The intermediary, as borrower from FONEI, will
be responsible for interest and principal payments on FONEI loans, irrespective
of collections from the industrial beneficiary. It will, however, be required
to report on the use of FONEI's funds and sub-loan collections.
4.12      The accounts of the financial intermediaries will be audited by
external auditors. Assurances have been obtained that the annual audits of
financial intermediaries will be certified by external auditors acceptable
to FONEI, in such form as FONEI shall prescribe, and shall be carried out
in accordance with sound auditing principles, and that FONEI's standard with
respect to selection of auditors and content of audits shall be consistent
with the standards applied by the Bank.
Types of Project Loans
4.13      In accordance with FONEI's objective to promote industrial invest-
ment that will have a positive influence on the balance of payments, it
expects to finance: (a) export projects, (b) efficient import substitution
projects, (c) tourism projects, and (d) feasibility studies for such projects.
FONEI's Operating Regulations clearly state that FONEI cannot be used for
projects for which sufficient resources are available from alternative sources.



- 10 -
4.14      Export Projects.  To be eligible, an export project must genei;re
euports on a continuing basis without Government subsidies other than thcnz
pr,ovided for in the laws and decrees specifying incentives for the estab--.--
ment and expansion of industrial enterprises.  It must be able to earn wo,-
aign exchange to exceed foreign exchange expenditures for the project, in-.
acLuding imported inputs and depreciation of the imported equipment, requxred
for the production of export goods.
4.15      Efficient Import Substitution Projects.  Import substitution p
jects must be competitive in quality and price with foreign products.
prnducts may be capital goods, intermediate goods, or basic consumer good.
Busic consumer goods are defined in the regulations as those consumed by a
large percentage of the country's population or considered essential to
Mexico's economic development.  The Technical Committee will approve the  ;
of eligible products which, together with any subsequent changes, are SubJect
to Bank approval. Agreement has been reached that FONEI will not finance
pIojects for import substitution of basic consumer goods - either with te
proceeds of the Bank loan or the local resources earmarked for FONEI's pro-
posed lending programs (US$40 million equivalent) - until a list of goods
eligible for such financing is prepared by FONEI, and accepted by the Bank.
Agreement was also reached that if FONEI were to provide financing for such
projects with funds other than FONEI's initial resources or the Bank loan,
the Bank will be informed and given an opportunity to comment thereon.
4J16      The criteria for import substitution industries, as defined in the
-FONEI regulations, are rather broad. The lack of a clear definition of price
competitiveness could lead to indiscriminate financing of import substitution
projects. The Mexican authorities accept the need to set a cut-off for FONEI
projects whereby the price of the locally produced goods will not exceed the
c.i.f. price of the corresponding imports by more than 25% - several BanK
miesions recommended this cut-off point as an industrial policy objective
to be reached in 5-10 years - and this was agreed during negotiations.
4X^17     Tourism Projects.  Tourism is one of Mexico's principal sources of
f9roeign exchange earnings and is included in FONEI's scope of activities, but
an.a future option rather than an immediate intention. FONEI's operating
s-ules do not contain clear criteria as to the kind of tourism projects chac
FONEI would finance nor the extent or terms of tourism loans. The Bank ob-
tained assurances during negotiations that tourism projects will not be
f4nanced by FONEI - either wlth the proceeds of the Bank loan or with the
1lmoal resources earmarked for FONEI's financing (US$40 mill-ion equivalent) -
until specific criteria, satisfactory to the Bank are established.  Agreement
has also been reached that if FONEI were to provide financing for such projects
-fth o-ther resources, the Bank will be informed and given an opportunity to
womaent thereon.
-4gliB    Feasibility Studies.  FONEI may lend for feasibility studies, in-
cdauding final engineering, but will have to approve the consultants, their
-tarms of reference and the cost of the study. In the case of feasibility



- 11 -
studies which lead to a project, the cosz will be consolidated with the proj-
ect loan. Where no project results, FONEI may absorb part of the cost and
become owner of the study. In effect, FONEI will acquire the feasibility
study at a price to be agreed by the Technical Committee that will depend
on the priority of the project and the quality of the study. Feasibility
studies acquired by FONEI will be available to potential investors and should
act as anl incentive to investment.
Resources
4.19      Including the proposed Bank loan, FONEI's initial resources would
total US$75 million equivalent. Initially, the Government will provide a
non-repayable contribution of Mex$ 125 million (US$10 million equivalent),
one half of which will be paid before effectiveness of the proposed Bank
loan, and the other half in 1973.1/ BANXICO will also make available to
FONEI, by the time the Bank loan is effective, the equivalent of at least
US$30 million from the deposits that financial institutions have to main-
tain with it, and FONEI will pay 9% p.a. interest on the amount withdrawn.
(This is the interest rate which BANXICO pays to financial institutions.)
Assuming that the proposed Bank loan of US$35 million is approved, peso funds
will amount to 53%, and foreign funds to 47% of FONEI's initial resources.
During negotiations agreement was reached that the Government's initial con-
tribution to FONEI will be forthcoming as proposed and that BANXICO will
make available at least US$30 million equivalent on terms and conditions
adequate for the carrying out of the project.
4.20      The Mexican Government is to provide FONEI with US$35 million
equivalent for repayment of the Bank loan principal in accordance with the
repayment schedule, thereby providing a further contribution to FONEI's re-
sources. FONEI will pay only the interest and commitment fee. During nego-
tiations agreement was reached that this additional contribution will be made
available as needed.
4.21      FONEI will not bear the exchange risk on the proposed loan.  FONEI
will receive the proceeds of the loan, in pesos, through BANXICO. Assurances
have been obtained that the Bank will be informed on the terms and conditions
of other borrowing by FONEI and that it will have reasonable opportunity to
comment thereon.
Terms and Limits of Financing
4.22      Apart from feasibility studies, FONEI will finance only fixed asset
costs of eligible projects and its loans will never cover the full amount of
such costs. Minimum FONEI financing will be US$280,000 equivalent to avoid
overlapping with the Fund for Small and Medium-Sized Industry administered by
1/   The Mexican Government has already disbursed Mex$ 30 million to FONEI.
Some specific taxes were also allocated to FONEI with the purpose of
completing its total Mex$;125 million endowment before September 1, 1972.



- 12 -
NAFIN. The maximum financing will be US$3 million equivalent. These limits
could be changed by the Technical Committee subject to Bank concurrence.
4.'3      The intermediary and the industrial enterprise would be expected
to participate in each FONEI financing. The maximum and minimum limits of
this three-fold financing would be as follows:
Expansion or Moder-   Feasibility
New Projects      nization Projects       Studies
Industrial enterprise
(minimum)                     25%                  20%                 20%
Intermediary (minimum)           10%                  8%                  _
FONEI (maximum)                  65%                 72%                 80%
total            100%                100%                100%
The above table refers only to fixed assets.  In addition, the participating
intermediary will be expected to provide out of its own resources a sufficient
amount for working capital requirements, if asked to do so. The sponsor will
have to cover other project costs and, given the current practices of the
credit institutions, his equity capital will have to be at least equal to
his overall indebtedness.
4.24      FONEI will charge financial intermediaries 9% interest per year and
will collect 1% per year as commitment fee on the undisbursed balance of its
loans. While it will have no spread on the BANXICO funds, it will earn the
full 9% interest on the Government's non-repayable contribution and will have
a likely spread of 1 3/4% on the proposed Bank loan. Assurances have been
obtained that the rate of interest charged by FONEI will be adequate for the
carrying out of the project, taking into account the prevailing conditions
in capital markets and that in establishing such rates the Bank will be given
a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon.
4.25      Financial intermediaries will charge the final beneficiaries 11%
p.a. and will also pass the 1% annual commitment fee on to them. The 2%
spread would give the intermediaries sufficient incentive to utilize FONEI's
resources. The interest rate which the financiera would charge on its own
resources would not be subject to the 11% limitation. The cost of FONEI's
funds, although slightly lower than the cost of funds from alternative sources,
should be viewed as a package which includes requirements not attached to bor-
rowing from the market, such as export performance and efficient import sub-
stitution requirements. The lower interest rate is considered necessary to
make loans with these additional requirements attractive to industrial enter-
prises as compared with unconditional market loans at slightly higher rates
of 13-15%.



- 13 -
4.26      Financieras now obtain funds at an average of 11.15, 1/ andl lentd to
their best customers at 13%.  This spread ot 1.85% is less than the 2,' spread
permitted by FONEI, and the financieras should therefore finid the active pro-
motion of FONEI projects reasonably attractive.
4.27      FONEI, in making loans, will rely on the creditworthiness of the
financieras. Loans granted by the latter would be guaranteed by a first mort-
gage on the assets of the beneficiary. FONEI can request the financial inter-
mediary to subrogate to it the rights and guarantees backing its credit.
4.23      FONEI will supervise the execution of investment plans and projects,
and the performance of the borrowing enterprise. It will also determine
whether the proceeds of its financing have been used for the purposes intended.
4.29      FONEI's financial statements will be certified by external auditors.
During negotiations the Bank obtained assurances that the auditors will be
acceptable to the Bank and that FONEI will submit to the Bank a copy of the
certified financial statements together with the auditor's comments.
Prospects for FONEI
4.30      Given the foregoing terms andl conditions of financing, FONEI's
prospects appear good. FONEI should be attractive both to industrial enter-
prises and to financial intermediaries. The former give evidence of liking
FONEI's loan terms, which are for a longer term than presently available in
Mexico and provide for a grace period, which is rare in Mexico.  As they are
in pesos, the loans will carry no exchange risk, and the interest rate is
reasonable despite the export and/or efficient import substitution require-
ments. The financieras also appear to favor FONEI. The 2% spread allowed
them is adequate for this long-term money, especially considering the fact
that projects should carry less risk because of FONEI's appraisal. The
funds provided, on terms up to 13 years with up to three years grace period,
will constitute a net addition to the intermediary's resources. There is
also some evidence that the financial intermediaries may, if not immediately
then in time, require lower guarantees because of the additional confidence
provided by the project appraisal.
4.31      On these assumptions, FONEI's tentative projection of sources and
uses of funds (Annex 13) shows that its initial resources (including the
proposed Bank loan) would be exhausted by the end of the twelfth quarter
followving Bank loan effectiveness. The projection is based on the assump-
tion that the average project will require FONEI financing of about US$1.2
million. A number of industrial enterprises and financial intermediaries
have already expressed their intent to submit applications for FONEI fi-
nancing, including applications for feasibility studies for which FONEI
budgeted a little less than 3,, of its lending operations.
1/   Includes interest, administrative expenditures and cost of idle money
as a result of reserve and portfolio requirements, according to informa-
tion obtained from the National Bankers Commission.



- 14
4.32      FONEI's projected balance sheet (Annex 14) malces nio provision for
bad debts because FONEI is not expected to incur any losses on its lending.
The reserve and portfolio requirements of the intermediaries are large enough
to make any default virtually impossible. Payments due to FONEI will be
effected through automatic transfer from the intermediaries' accounts at
BANXICO. Thus, arrears are also unlikely.
4.33      The tentative profit and loss projections (Annex 15) indicate
losses in the first three years of operation, which will be offset in the
following two years as lending activities increase.  From 1975 onwards,
FONEI's current income will generate adequate funds to pay interest and
fees on the BANXICO and Bank loans and to cover all of its other costs,
including acquisition of negative feasibility studies for which US$500,000
equivalent per annum is budgeted. The latter provision is thought to be
rather high in relation to the projected volume of feasibility study
financing.
V. THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN
5.01      Amount and Purpose.  The proposed Bank loan of US$35 million for
FONEI would finance the direct foreign exchange cost of specific industrial
projects, approved by FONEI as meeting balance-of-payments and industrial
efficiency criteria. It is expected that the major part of the loan would be
used for export industries and the minor part for efficient import substitu-
tion projects. The proposed amount of the loan would represent 47% of FONEI's
initial resources and is forecast to be committed within a three year period.
As for all Bank loans to Mexico, the borrower would be NAFIN. As trustee,
BANXICO would sign the Project Agreement and the Mexican Government would
guarantee the loan. NAFIN and BA4XICO would make arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank for the transfer from NAFIN to BANXICO of the proceeds of the
Bank loan, expressed in pesos.
5.02      Disbursement and Procurement.  The amount of the Bank loan would be
withdrawn from the Loan Account upon presentation of satisfactory documenta-
tion for expenditures made or to be made by FONEI in accordance with financ-
ing approved to selected intermediaries for eligible projects. The loan
funds would be disbursed only for the c.i.f. cost of direct imports of goods
and services 1/ specifically required for the project. Off-the-shelf
purchases would be financed on the basis of c.i.f. price (Mexican port-of-
entry) where it can be established. Procurement under the loan would be
limited to Bank member countries and Switzerland.
5.03      Repayments to the Bank would be on the basis of a fixed amortiza-
tion schedule. It is proposed that the Bank loan have a maturity of 20 years,
with a three-year grace period.
1/   Including the cost of consultants or advisors to FONEI and of feasibility
studies when paid for in foreign currencies.



- 15 -
5.04      FONEI would have a US$500,000 equivalent free limiit for individual
projects, subject to an aggregate limit of US$10 million equivalent. With
these limits, it is estimated that about 20 projects a year would come to
the Bank for review. However, FONEI would be expected to submit, for in-
formation only, its appraisals of all projects for which Bank financing is
requested.
5.05      The nature of the project requires that the Bank follow up closely
FONEI's operations and the performance of final borrowers, especially with
regard to improved industrial efficiency and export performance, which are
the justification of the loan. The usual assurances were obtained during
negotiations regarding the Bank's right of access both to FONEI and to the
final beneficiary, and the records of the intermediaries with respect to
FONEI operations should also be available.
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Conclusions
6.01      FONEI complements a series of fiscal incentives adopted by the
Mexican Government for the promotion of exports and modernization of the
industrial sector: it is consistent with, and furthers, policies directed
toward increasing industrial efficiency and a greater export orientation
of industry. FONEI will make it possible to finance good projects which
might otherwise not be undertaken due to scarcity of long-term financing.
The proposed scheme of financing is sufficiently flexible to permit future
adjustments.
6.02      FONEI should be attractive to industrial enterprises because its
loans will be for a longer term than is presently available in Mexico, thus
permitting investment planning over a longer period of time; will provide
for a grace period, a rare credit feature in Mexico; will be made in pesos
with no exchange risk to the borrower; will carry an interest rate suffi-
ciently attractive to make the export and/or efficient import substitution
condition acceptable. The financial intermediaries will benefit from the
2% spread allowed them and the reduction of risk due to FONEI's appraisal.
FONEI will provide the financial intermediaries with additional resources,
not competitive with existing sources of funds.
Recommendations
6.03      It is recommended that the Bank make-a loan of US$35 million to
finance the import requirements of FONEI's lending for Mexican industrial
enterprises to increase exports or to substitute efficiently for imports.
The loan, which would be made to NAFIN, would be guaranteed by the Govern-
ment. The project agreement would be with BANXICO (paras. 3.04, and 5.01).
NAFIN and BANXICO would make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for
the transfer from NAFIN to BANXICO of the proceeds of the Bank loan expressed
in pesos, for their use by FONEI (para. 4.21).



- 16 -
6.04      The loan would be for 20 years, including a grace period of three
years, and would have a fixed amortization schedule. The loan would carry
the standard commitment fee.
6.05      FONEI would be given a free-limit of US$500,000 for approval of
individual projects, subject to an aggregate limit of US$10 million (para.
5.04).
6.06      In addition to the usual covenants, the following contractual con-
ditions have been agreed upon:
(a)  That FONEI will not finance any project for the import sub-
stitution of basic consumer goods out of the proceeds of the
Bank loan or the local resources earmarked for FONEI's pro-
posed lending program (US$40 million equivalent), before a
list of goods eligible for such financing is prepared by
FONEI. Such list shall be acceptable to the Bank and be
subject to amendment only with the prior consent of the
Bank (para. 4.15).
(b)  That neither the proceeds of the Bank loan nor the local
resources earmarked for FONEI's proposed lending program
(US$40 million equivalent) will be used to finance tourism
projects until specific criteria satisfactory to the Bank
are established (para. 4.17);
(c)  That in providing financing for tourism projects, or for
import substitution projects of basic consumer goods, with
funds other than the proceeds of the Bank loan or the local
resources earmarked for FONEI's lending program (US$40 mil-
lion equivalent), FONEI will inform the Bank and will give
it a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon (paras. 4.15
and 4.17).
(d)  That FONEI will inform the Bank of the terms and conditions
of any other financing that FONEI may obtain in addition to
the Bank loan, and will give the Bank a reasonable opportunity
to comment thereon (para. 4.21).
6.07      In addition, agreement was obtained during negotiations that FONEI's
financing of efficient import substitution industries will be limited to proj-
ects that will produce goods whose price at the plant site will not exceed by
more than 25% the c.i.f. price of comparable imported goods (para. 4.16).
6.08      The transfer of the first US$5 million equivalent of the non-
repayable Government contribution would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(para. 4.19).



MEXICO
FONDO DE EQUIPAMIENTO INDUSTRIAL (FONEI)
INDEXES OF INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT
1960 = 100
Manufacturing
Petroleum             Food        Textiles   Furniture
and         Sub-     and         and       and wood                      Construc- Electric
Year     General     Mining     Petrochemical  Total  Beverages    Apparel    products   Chemical   Other    tion         Energy
1961     104.9        95.9          110.9       105.5   106.5        101.2       102.9      102.8       97.6    99.5      108.9
1962     110.0       102.6          114.3       110.3    109.6       105.8       112.6      11-4.4    110.9  106.0        117.4
1963     120.6       105.1          121.2       120.8    118.7       109.1       121.7      124.0      115.1   121.4      136.3
1964     138.9       107.8          134.2       140.2    129.3       133.6       142.6      139.7      133.5   141.9      159.4
1965     1h8.5       107.7          142.8       152.3    137.8       141.9       156.8      156.6      146.6   139.8      176.1
1966     162.4       111.4          148.9       166.5    147.4       149.2       164.2      173.8      170.8   159.9      195.8
1967     175.1       114.6           169.1      177.0    153.9       167.3       171.7      188.4      191.3   180.7      217.7
1968     191.3       121.6           183.8      194.3    165.1        179.5      181.9       212.2     215.7   194.o      241.8
1969     207.8       127.9           195.2      211.2    175.9        194.8      200.5       243.2     238.3   212.3      275.2
197ol,   225.2       129.9           214.4      230.3    188.5        213.8      216.2       267.3     251.3   222.1      305.4
Source:  Banco de Mexico S.A. - Annual Report 1970
1/ Preliminary
DFCD
February 14, 1972



ANNEX 2
M EICO
FONDO DE EQUIPAMIENTO INDUSTRIAL (FONEI)
PORTFOLIO REQUIREMENTS OF THE BANKING SYSTEM
As of December 31, 1971
(percent)
Commercial
Banks in            Commercial         Investment
Resources               Federal             Banks in            Banks             Mortgage
earmarked for            District            the States        (Financieras)          Bonds
Liquidity reserve                       |
1                  ~~~~~~25 
Government securities
or deposit in                50                                      55
BANXICO
Cattle bonds
t     ~~25                 10
Agriculture                  -                   2
Priority production
activities                   20                  20                   -                  45
General production
loans                         5                  -                    20                 -
Balance of Payments-
oriented                               -                               5
Commerce                     25                                       -                  -
Low cost housing             -                                                           30
Middle class housing         -                                                           25
Free resources               -                   30                   'O
TOTAL RESOURCES             100                 100                 100                 100
1/ Applicable to annual increases in resources of the banking system.
Source: Banco de Mexico S.A. Annual Report 1970.
D FCD
February 14, 1972



ANNEX 3
MEXICO
FONDO DE EQUIPAMIENTO INDUSTRIAL (FONEI)
CHARACTERISTICS OF FINANCIAL PAPER ISSUED BY FINANCIERAS
Outstanding
as of Oct. 31,
Paper             Yield              Term                Guarantees                 1970
(in lMex$ ~billior
Financial bonds   9.0%          5, 10, 15 years       Issuing Institution          22.90
Financial titles  9.0%          5, 10 years           Issuing Institution           6.74
Promissory notes 11.5%          Up to 1 year          Market (none)                 8.80
Financial certi-
ficates         9.43%         From 2 to 10 years   Market (none)                  6.90
Others              -                                         -                    23.10
68.44
Source:  Business Trerds - Volume VI - No. 261 - December 13, 1971.
DFCD
February 14, 1972






ANNEX 4
MIEXICO
FONDO DE EQUIPAMIENTO INDUSTRIAL (FONEI)
TYPES, SOURCES, MATURITIES AND INTEREST OF CREDIT EXTENDED
TO INDUSTRY BY THE PRIVATE BANKING SYSTEM
1.        Discounting commercial paper:  Competition and the need to maintain
an adequate volume of sales obliges many firms to grant generous payment con-
ditions to their clients. These conditions vary between 60 and 90 days, but
six month accounts are by no means infrequent. The fact that the credits to
their clients freeze large sums of working capital contributed to the estab-
lishment of a rediscounting scheme for commercial paper between banks and
firms. The cost of such credits is normally 1% per month plus charges and
fees, plus in many cases the requirements for firms to hold with their bank
or financiera a compensating balance amounting to as much as 25% of the loan.
These additional items raise the cost of money on this type of operation to
close to 15% per annum.
2.        Short-term credit:  In addition to the discounting operations, the
firms often maintain a credit line with their bank with a maturity of between
90 and 180 days, usually on a revolving basis. In general, neither the cre-
dit lines, nor the direct short-term loans need a tangible guarantee by the
borrower, as the personal guarantee plus a minimum deposit in the bank are
sufficient as collateral. This type of credit can usually be obtained rela-
tively easy. Moreover, it is attractive for the industrialist as he is not
obliged to burden the assets of his firm with mortgages or other tangible
guarantees. However, these loans are limited in size by the borrower's
ability to offer personal guarantees. The total cost of these short-term
loans vary considerably depending on the lending institution and on the firm.
Commercial banks usually charge interest of between 9 and 12% per annum, plus
fees and commissions which typically add another 3%. Financieras, again
depending on their size, extend such loans at a cost to the industrialist of
around 18%.
3.        "Direct Credit":  The so-called "Direct Credit" is a credit of up
to one year. A collateral by the borrower of 130% may be required, although
this is not in all cases so. If this type of credit is secured, the finan-
cial institution is willing to renew it if at least 50% of the loan was repaid
at maturity. A compensating balance, sometimes amounting to as much as 25%
of the loan, is required by most of the banks. The lending rate by commercial
banks is generally 12% per annum, while the rate of Financieras could go as
high as 18% per annum.
4.        Inventory and working capital loans (Credito de Avio):  These loans
are generally of a longer term than the normal revolving credits or the direct
credits. Although normally one year, maturities may go to 2-3 years. In many
cases this type of loan is not only used to finance the current operations of



ANNEX 4
Page 2
the plant, but also to purchase fixed assets and to expand operations.  Gener-
ally, a credit guarantee amounting to 150% of the loan contracted is required
by commercial banks. Also, most financial institutions require the borrower
to hold a compensating balance amounting to around 20%. Commercial Banks will
charge from 9-12% per year, while Financieras' lending rates will go up to 16%
per year.
5.        Replacement loans (Credito refaccionario):  This type of loan has
terms of between 2 and 10 years. With the traditional reluctance of the fi-
nancial institutions to commit their funds for such a long period, it is dif-
ficult for the industrialist to botain this type of loan. Consequently, a
very small amount of total credit given by the Banking system falls into that
category. The conditions attached to this type of loan are much more stringent
than for the previously discussed credit instruments. The borrower must
present guarantees amounting to 150% of the loan contracted and in addition,
is often required to hold a compensating balance of around 20% with the
lending institution. The lending rates of commercial banks tend to be lower
(10-12% per year) than those of financieras (up to 15% per year). Again, the
lending rate depends on the type and quality of the borrower as well as the
type of financial institution.
6.        Long-term loans:  Commercial banks in Mexico are not allowed to make
loans over 10 years. The only such loans are made by the financieras. Long-
term loans over 10 years require a mortgage guarantee. There is a little used
type of industrial loan with a term of up to 15 years, available only from
financieras at rates of 12-15%. Most Mexican industrialists try to avoid such
loans as they burden their fixed assets, land and buildings with the mortgage
guarantee, which greatly inhibits their secondary borrowing capacity. The
valuation of the guarantee is normally very conservative. For instance, if
a lending institution can lend, according to the law, up to 50% of the value
of the guarantee, the limit imposed by the banks most frequently is between
20 and 30% of the real value of the guarantee. Some banks have gone to great
extremes in securing their loans, and cases have become known when the value
of the guarantee represented as much as 50 times the size of the loan.
7.        "Simple" Credit:  There is a special type of credit available in
Mexico called "simple" credit which has been invented to consolidate the
short-term credit structure of a firm. This type of credit is usually avail-
able only through the financieras at a maturity of up to 10 years. The in-
terest rate can go as high as 15% per year. The drawback of this type of cre-
dit is the very high guarantee required by the lender, amounting to 200% in
the form of the firm's land, property and buildings. With all its drawbacks,
the simple credit has the advantage of consolidating many small credits, loans
and accounts with various financial institutions into a manageable medium to
long-term loan, at a cost no higher than the short-term credits.
8.        Draft obligations:  Drafts issued by large firms for a term of up
to 10 years and yielding between 10 and 12% per year plus 1% commission fee,
are sold to private and institutional investors. These draft obligations do



ANNEX 4
Page 3
not require a tangible guarantee. Such financing is available mainly to the
large, well-known companies; it is not widely used.
9.        Mortgage bonds:  Some of the larger Mexican firms sell mortgage
bonds to financial institutions in order to obtain long-term funds for fixed
investment. This instrument has a drawback insofar as a poor market forces
the financial institution to hold on to the bonds of the issuer. The finan-
cial institution charges a 15% financing fee in addition to a commission fee
to the issuer of the bonds, so long as these bonds do not find a market. The
firm selling the mortgage bonds has to pay up to 12% per year for the funds
obtained with this instrument. However, in the case of a poor financial
market, the cost to the issuer increases substantially.
10.       Foreign credit:  Except for the First National City Bank, Foreign
banks operating in Mexico have no access to domestic savings. Therefore,
these banks must import funds in order to meet their client's needs. While
most foreign banks previously specialized in arranging suppliers credits for
their clients, they have now gone into financing of specific projects or
making loans available for short- to medium-term operations. Before the US
capital export restrictions in 1968, foreign banks used to obtain their funds
mainly from the New York money markets. During the last three years however,
they have relied more and more on the Euro-dollar market. In either case, in-
terest rates charged to their clients are based on the New York prime rate or
the current Euro-dollar rate. Adding a spread of 1-1/2 - 2-1/2% to these
base rates, the Mexican client therefore has to pay between 9 and 11% per
year. However, in these operations the exchange risk is carried by the bor-
rower. In addition, some foreign banks, eager to obtain domestic peso funds,
require their clients to hold certain compensating balances with them. Most
of these foreign credits are based on a six-month term which can be renewed.
There are no statistical data available about the extent and magnitude of
foreign borrowing by Mexican industry. Indications received in the course of
a number of interviews put the size of foreign loans to Mexican private in-
dustry at over US$ 1 billion during 1970.
DFCD
May 9, 1972






MEXICO
FONDO DE EQUIPANFENTO INIDUSTRIAL (FONEI)
TOTAL DOMESTIC FINANCING GRANTED ANNUALLY TO THE PRIVATE SECTOR
(in Mex$ billions)
Year         For Commerce                               For Production
Industry      Agriculture         Mining        Sub-Total           Total
1963             8.9                  32.0            8.2               0.2            40-4             49.3
1964            13.2                  38.7            9.3               0.2            48.2             61.4
1965            14.0                  42.0           10.6               0.2            52.8             66.8
1966            17.4                  46.6           12.9               0.5            60.0             77.4
1967            20.7                  55.3           14.0               1.0            70.3             91.0
1968            24.6                  62.5           15.3               1.2            79.0            103.6
1969            31.8                  75.0           16.2               1.7            92.9            124.7
1970            36.7                  89.8           17.7               3.1           110.6            147.3
Source:  Banco de Mexico S.A. - Annual Report 1970
DFCD
February 14, 1972



ANNEX 6
MEXICO
FONDO DE EQUIPAMIENTO INDUSTRIAL (FONEI)
EXECUTIVE ORDER OF OCTOBER 15, 1971
With the aim of promoting the nation's economic and social develop-
ment and strengthening our balance of payments positions, this Ministry has
decided to set up a trust fund within Banco de Mexico for the purpose of en-
couraging the establishment and expansion of industrial and service enter-
prises which will effectively supply export markets or substitute imports.
The trust fund will have the following characteristics:
Trustor: The Federal Government, represented by the Ministry
of Finance and Public Credit.
Trustee: Banco de Mexico, S.A.
Assets:  will consist of:
(1) The sum of Mex$ 125 million (one hundred and twenty-five million
pesos), which will constitute the Federal Goverrment's initial contri-
bution, to be made through the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
during 1972 and 1973.
(2) Other contributions to be made by the Trustor thereafter.
(3) Funds obtained in the form of financing granted by foreign insti-
tutions or organizations.
(4) Net earnings derived from transactions carried out by the
Trustee and from investment of its surplus funds.
(5) Other resources authorized by the Trustor.
The Fund can also expect to receive funds directly or indirectly
from Mexican loan institutions authorized by Banco de Mexico, S.A.
The purpose, powers and structure of the Fund, including those of
its technical Committee, are detailed in the attached draft agreement.
DFCD
February 14, 1972



A.NNEX 7
MEXICO
FONDO DE EQUIPAMIENTO INDUSTRIAL (FONEI)
CONTRACT SIGNED BETWEEN THE MINISTRY OF FINANCE
AND THE CENTRAL BANK (AS TRUSTEE OF FONEI)
Trust Agreement between the Federal Government, as Trustor, through the
agency of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, represented by Mr.
Mario Ramon Beteta, Undersecretary for Finance and Public Credit, and
Banco de Mexico, S.A., as Trustee represented by its Director General,
Mr. Ernesto Fernandez Hurtado, in accordance with the following Declara-
tions and Articles:
Declarations
I.   The Ministry of Finance and Public Credit hereby declares that
the Government's policy for stimulating the nation's economic and social
development includes the promotion of the establishment and expansion of
industrial and service enterprises which will effectively supply export
markets or substitute imports, thereby also achieving the related benefits
of increased employment, acquisition of modern technology and a stronger
balance of payments position.
The Federal Government has therefore decided to set up an Industrial
Equipment Fund, intended to promote the production of industrial goods and ser-
vices which will generate or save foreign exchange in spheres not covered by
other Funds, such as the Fund to Promote Exports of Manufactured Products,
Guarantee and Development Fund for Small and Medium-Sized Industries, Develop-
ment and Guarantee Fund for Agriculture, Livestock and Poultry, and the Special
Fund for Agricultural Financing.
The Federal Government has thus thought it advisable for the above-
mentioned Fund to be administered and operated in trust by Banco de Mexico,
S.A., that Bank being empowered, under its Organic Law, to act as trustee in
cases where it is manifestly in the public interest that it should do so, such
as the present one.
II. Bando de Mexico, S.A. hereby expresses its willingness to
operate the above-mentioned Industrial Equipment Fund in trust, and both
parties therefore enter into the following Agreement; for the sake of brevity,
the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit may hereinafter be called "the
Trustor", Banco de Mexico, S.A. "the Trustee" and the Industrial Equipment
Fund "the Fund".



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Article 1. The Federal Government, represented by the Ministry of Finance
and Public Credit, as Trustor, and Banco de Mexico, S.A., as Trustee, hereby
enter into the present trusteeship agreement, the object of which is the man-
agement of an Industrial Equipment Fund intended to promote the production of
industrial goods and services that generate or save foreign exchange. This
trust fund shall be called the "Industrial Equipment Fund" (FONEI).
Article 2. The Fund shall have the following assets:
(a) The sum of Mex$ 125,000,000.00 (one hundred and twenty-five million
pesos) which shall constitute the Federal Government's initial con-
tribution, to be made through the Ministry of Finance and Public
Credit during 1972 and 1973;
(b) other contributions to be made by the Trustor thereafter;
(c) funds obtained in the form of financing granted by foreign
institutions or organizations;
(d) net earnings derived from transactions carried out by the
Trustee and from investment of its surplus funds;
(e) other resources authorized by the Trustor.
The Fund shall also have access to funds deriving directly or in-
directly from Mexican loan institutions authorized by Banco de Mexico, S.A.
Article 3. The Trustee shall have authority to effect the following trans-
actions against the Fund's account:
I.   Refinancing of loans or credits granted by credit institutions
for the purchase and installation of industrial equipment and
facilities, and the construction of buildings, where the aim
is:
(a) The installation or equipment of new industrial plant for
whose products there is a reasonably certain prospective
foreign market;
(b)  the expansion or modernization of existing industrial
plant whose present or projected production meets the
requirement (a) above;
(c) the installation, expansion or modernization of industrial
plant whose products are effective import substitutes.
II. The refinancing of loans or credits granted by private credit insti-
tutions for the execution of other projects likely to generate or
save foreign exchange, chiefly in the field of tourism.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
III. Refinancing through credit institutions, and in certain cases pay-
ment from the Fund's account, as may be decided by the Technical
Committee mentioned in Article 5, or part or all of the cost of
studies or Drojects connected with transactions falling within the
scope of the Fund.
Article 4. In accordance with the provisions of Article 45, Section IV of
the General Law on Credit Institutions and Auxiliary Organizations, the
Trustor shall set up a Technical Committee composed of six regular members
and six alternates, appointed as follows: two by the Ministry of Finance
anc6 Public Credit, one by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, two by
Banco de M1exico, S.A. and one by the National Confederation of Chambers of
Industry. For each regular member the above-mentioned bodies shall appoint
an alternate.
The Technical Committee shall have a Chairman, who shall be the
first of the members appointed by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit;
it shall have a Secretary, appointed by the Committee itself; the presence
of four members, including at least one of those appointed by the Ministry
of Finance and Public Credit, shall constitute a quorum; resolutions shall
be taken by majority vote and in the event of a tie, the Chairman shall have
the casting vote.
The Committee shall meet as often as necessary to achieve the aims
of the Trustor; meetings shall be called by the Secretary upon instructions
by the Chairman.
Article 5. The Technical Committee shall have the following functions:
(1) to establish the rules of operation of the Fund, by which
management of the trusteeship shall be governed;
(2) to approve operations charged to the Fund, as provided in
the present Agreement and in the above-mentioned rules of
operation;
(3) to authorize the loans mentioned in Article 2 (c), laying
down the conditions or general terms under which they are
obtained;
(4) to approve, on the recommendation of the Trustee, the annual
budget of expenditure required for administration of the
Fund, and to submit it to the Ministry of Finance and Public
Credit for final approval;
(5) any other functions that the Trustor may confer on it in
future.
Article 6. The Ministry of Finance and Public credit shall determine appro-
priate remuneration for the members and secretary of the Technical Committee.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
Article 7.  The Trustee shall invest any surplus funds of the Trust in (;overni-
ment securities.
Article 8. The Trustee shall appoint such technical and administrative staff
as it considers necessary for operation of the trust fund, and shall determine
their salaries and benefits; these shall be paid out of the Fund itself, sub-
ject to the annual budget of expenditure authorized by the Technical Committee.
Other expenses arising out of operation of this trust fund shall be paid
by the Trustee, also out of the Fund itself.
Article 9. The Trustee shall not be required to make the announcements or
give the notice referred to in Article 45, Section IX, of the General Law
on Credit Institutions and Auxiliary Organizations, but shall report each
quarter on the management of the funds in trust.
Article 10. The Trustee accepts the present trusteeship and undertake to
exercise it in accordance with the provisions of the General Law on Credit
Institutions and Auxiliary Organizations and of the General Law on Credit
instruments and Transactions.
Article 11. This trusteeship shall be of indefinite duration, but the Trustor
reserves the right to revoke it at any time, allowing the Trustee the neces-
sary powers to cover the obligations of the Fund.
Article 12. At the end of each financial year, the Trustee shall receive
fees calculated on the basis of the amount of funds managed by it, at the
following rates:
Up to the first Mex$ 500 million - 1/S of 1% per annum.
On amounts in excess of Mex$ 500 million - 1/16 of 1% per annum.
The rate or rates applicable shall be calculated on the average of the
Fund's total assets on the last day of each month.
This Agreement is signed in eight copies, seven of them remaining
with the Trustor and one with the Trustee. It does not bear a stamp, be-
cause of the status of the parties thereto.
Mexico, D.F., October 29, 1971
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT                              BANCO DE MAEXICO, S.A.
/s/ Mario Ramon Beteta                     /s/ Ernesto Fernandez Hurtado
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Bureau of Credit
Department of Financial Investment
Registry of Trusteeship Agreements.
DFCD
This Agreement was registered under No. 1534
February 14, 1972         at Mexico, D.F. on November 4, 1971



NiYNEX 8
Page 1
MEXICO
FONDO DE EQUI]'AMIENTO INDUSTRIAL (FONEI)
ADDENDUM TO THE CONTRACT OF OCTOBER 29, 1971
Background
1.        On October 29, 1971 the Federal Government, represented by the
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, as trustor, and Banco de Mexico
S.A. as trustee, entered into a trust agreement establishing the "Industrial
Equipment Fund" (FONEI) for the purpose of developing the production of in-
dustrial goods and services that would generate and/or save foreign exchange.
2.        In official memorandum No. 305-V-1691 dated January 7, 1972, recorded
in file No. 715.5/226185, the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit informed the
Banco de Mexico, S.A. that:
"Reference is made to the Trust established in your bank with
regard to the Industrial Equipment Fund.
In that connection, you are informed that this Ministry (Secretaria)
has decided to amend Article IV of the Trust Agreement in question,
simply by adding to the Technical Committee a regular member and
alternate representing Nacional Financiera, S. A.
We accordingly request you to send us the corresponding draft
agreement".
3.        Subsequent to the official memorandum mentioned above, the Ministry
of Finance and Public Credit agreed with Banco de Mexico, S.A. to introduce
a further amendment to the trust agreement in question, enabling FONEI's Tech-
nical Committee to have an Assistant Secretary.
In view of the foregoing, the parties agree to the following Single
Article:
Article IV of the trust agreement mentioned in the Background is
amended to read as follows:
"IV. In accordance with the provisions of Article 45, Section IV
of the General Law on Credit Institutions and Auxiliary Organiza-
tions, the Trustor shall set up a Technical Committee composed of
7 regular members and 7 alternates, appointed as follows:



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Two by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit,
One by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce,
Two by Banco de Mexico, S.A., one by Nacional Financiera,
S.A. and one by the National Confederation of Industrial
Chambers of Industry. For each regular member the
above-mentioned bodies shall appoint an alternate.
The Chairman of the Technical Committee shall be the first
of the members appointed by the Ministry of Finance and
Public Credit; it shall have a Secretary and an Assistant
Secretary, both appointed by the Committee itself;
the presence of four members, including at least one of
those appointed by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit,
shall constitute a quorum, resolutions shall be taken by
majority vote and, in the event of a tie, the chairman shall
have the casting vote. The Committee shall meet as often as
necessary to achieve the purposes of the trust; meetings shall
be called by the Secretary upon instructions by the Chairman".
The present agreement is signed in octuplicate, 7 copies remaining
with the trustor and one with the trustee; because of the status of the parties
thereto, it requires no stamps.
Mexico, D.F. April 4, 1972
Secretary of Finance and Public Credit             Banco de Mexico, D. F.
on behalf of the Federal Government
UFCD
May 9, 1972



ANNEX 9
Page 1
MEXICO
FONDO DE EQUIPAMIENTO INDUSTRIAL (FONEI)
OPERATING RFGULATIONS
1.        The aim of the Industrial Equipment Fund shall be to promote the
efficient production of industrial goods and services which, by supplying
export markets or substituting imports, will lead to the generation and/or
saving of foreign exchange.
2.        The Trustee may use the Fund to carry out the following operations:
(a) The discounting of paper held by credit institutions in
respect of financing operations related to the purchase
and installation of industrial equipment and facilities,
the construction of buildings or the preparation of
studies or projects related to the Fund's operations.
(b) The granting of loans or credits to credit institutions
for the purposes mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
(c) The refinancing of loans or credits granted by private
credit institutions for the execution of projects other
than those mentioned in (a) and (b) above, which are
likely to generate and/or save foreign exchange.
(d) The carrying out of financing operations in connection
with the operations mentioned in (a), (b) and (c) above.
The Fund's investment operations shall be in domestic currency.
3.        The financing operations mentioned in 2 (a), (b) and (d) above
shall relate to:
(a) The installation and/or equipment of new industrial plant
for whose products there is a reasonably certain prospec-
tive foreign market;
(b) The expansion and/or modernization of existing industrial
plant whose present or anticipated production meets the
requirement set forth in (a) above; and



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(c) The installation, equipment expansion and/or modernization
of industrial plant whose products are effective import
substitutes.
4.        When the Trustee decides to grant financing for the execution
of projects designed to generate exports, there must be evidence that the
project concerned is likely to generate such exports without requiring any
Government subsidies other than those provided for in the laws and decrees
containing incentives for the establishment and expansion of industrial
enterprises.
5.        When the Trustee decides to finance projects the aim of which is
import substitution, the following general requirements shall be fulfilled:
(a) The products manufactured by the borrower enterprise shall
be competitive, from the point of view of quality and price,
with identical or similar products manufactured abroad:
(b) The production of the borrower enterprise shall consist of:
(i) Capital goods;
(ii) Intermediate goods; and
(iii) Basic consumer goods.
For the purpose of the present Regulations, basic consumer goods
shall be taken to be those consumed by a large percentage of the country's
population or considered essential to Mexico's economic development, and
shall be identified in lists approved for the purpose by the Trustee.
6.        In all the Fund's project-financing operations the net effect on
the balance between exports and imports of goods and services related to the
investment, including depreciation of equipment imported during the period
of amortization of the respective loan, must be favorable to Mexico.
7.        The Trustee may grant financing for the execution of feasibility
studies when these refer to specific projects eligible for Fund assistance.
Such financing shall be granted on terms approved in each case by the Trustee.
Should the feasibility study result in implementation of the corresponding
project, its financing shall be consolidated with the loan granted by the
Trustee for execution of the project. Should the study find that execution
of the project is not advisable, the Fund may, depending on the nature and
size of the project and the borrower's capacity to pay, decide to absorb
part of the cost of the financing it has granted for execution of the study.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
8,        The financing granted by the Trustee to credit institutions shall
be subject to the following basic requirements:
(a) It may be granted only to credit institutions established
in accordance with Mexican law, selected by the Trustee on
the basis of a number of criteria including the financial,
technical and administrative capacity of the institution
and the extent of its observance of the pertinent laws and
regulations.
(b) The recipient credit institution shall finance part of the
project out of its own resources on the basis of the per-
centages set forth in Regulation 12;
(c) The credit institution acting as financial intermediary
shall give the Trustee an undertaking that it will provide
financing out of its own resources to the borrower enter-
prise in an amount sufficient to support its working capital
as required by the project concerned;
(d) The financial intermediary shall give the Trustee an under-
taking that it will appraise the financial aspects of the
project, including the borrower's capacity to pay;
(e) The financial intermediary may in no case use FONEI's re-
sources to grant loans to industrial enterprises in which
said intermediary has a controlling participation or in-
terest;
(f) The credit institution acting as financial intermediary shall
undertake to service the FONEI loan, punctually and in full,
regardless of whether or not it has received the payments from
its borrower.
9.        In the selection of projects to be financed out of FONEI's resources
the following general interest aspects shall be considered, among others:
1.   Generation and/or saving of foreign exchange:
2.   Utilization of labor;
3.   Value added;
4.   Industrial decentralization and regional development.
10.       In appraising projects, FONEI shall take account of the following
specific aspects, among others:



ANNEX 9
Page 4
1.   Legal organization and technical and administrative capacity
of the borrower enterprise;
2.   Expected return on the project;
3.   Market situation and other economic aspects related to execu-
tion of the project;
4.   Financial situation of the enterprise, the latter being
obliged to prove that it is able to obtain all the fi-
nancing it needs for execution of the project, including
resources that may be provided by the Fund;
5.   The company's financial projections, including working
capital;
6.   Know- ow required for the project;
7.   Supply of raw materials and goods required for production;
8.   Geographic location;
9.   Alternative sources of funds.
11.       The operations entered into by the Trustee shall be carried out
in line with sound financial procedures and shall relate only to those pro-
jects whose execution meets the required conditions of safety and feasbility.
12.       Participation by the Fund in financing operations relating to the
purchase of fixed assets or to the execution of feasibility studies shall be
based on the following percentages:
New         Modernization         Feasibility
Projects         or expansion          studies
Industrial enterprise
(minimum)                       25%                20%                  20%
Financial intermediary
(minimum)                       10%                 8%                   -
FONEI (maximum)                   65%                72%                   80%
13.       The minimum amount of each of the financings authorized by the
Trustee shall be 3.5 million pesos and the maximum 37.5 million Pesos. This
rule shall not apply to the financing of feasibility studies, to which the
provisions of Regulation 7 shall apply.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
14.       Depending on the characteristics of the project, the Trustee shall
decide on the repayment terms and other conditions of the financing granted
out of its resources. Loans may be granted for a maximum of thirteen years,
which period shall include up to three years of grace.
15.       On the basis of the condition of the capital markets, the Trustee
shall establish the limits of the charges that are to be imposed on the cre-
dit institutions. For operations financed by FONEI said institutions may
not charge the borrower enterprise more than 2% per annum over and above
the rate they are required to pay to the Trustee, including fees, commissions
and any other charges, with the exception of the commitment charge referred
to in Regulation 16 below.
16.       The Trustee shall require the recipient credit institutions to
pay a commitment charge on undisbursed balances, which charge shall not
exceed 1% per annum. The said financial intermediaries may in turn require
the final user of the specific credit to pay a (commitment) charge that
shall not exceed 1% per annum.
17.       The resources of the Fund may not be used for projects for which
sufficient resources are available from alternative sources.
18.       The agreements signed by the Trustee with the financial interme-
diaries and those signed by the latter with the final users of the credits
shall specify that the Trustee is entitled at all times to obtain any infor-
mation it may need concerning execution of the projects, to inspect and
supervise the execution and operation thereof, and to require both the fi-
nancial intermediaries and the final users to submit financial statements
certified by external auditors acceptable to the Trustee.
19.       The financial intermediary shall give the Trustee an undertaking
that it will supervise the correct use of the financing proceeds and ensure
the maintenance of the pertinent guarantees, and that it will pay in to the
Fund without delay the amount of any advance repayments received.
20.       The Technical Committee shall approve each and every one of the
financing operations carried out by the Fund pursuant to these Regulations,
and the Trustee shall carry out only such operations as, in its opinion,
continue to demonstrate the original conditions on the basis of which they
were approved.
DFCD
May 9, 1972






ME X I C O
FONDO DE EQUIPATEENTO IND1TSTRTAL (FONEI)
ORGANIZATION
DELEGAT
TECHNICAL DEPT.                               OPERATIONS DEPT.                               ACCOUNTING DEPT.                        ADMINISTRATION
ACCOUNTANT                   TVASITNTIVE
APPRAISAL AND            PROMOTION               LOANS               DISBURSEMENTS
SUPERVISIr4 JF
PROJECT S                                      I                                                                               I 
ACCOUNTANT                    CLERICAL           CLERICAL
SUPERVISOR            PROMOTER               ANALYST                 ANALYST
RESEARCRH              ANALYST                 ANALYST               ANAMYST
ANALYST
_ S TATIS TIC0
SECTION
DFCD
February lh, 1972






ANNEX 11
MEXICO
FONDO DE EQUIPAMNOT INDUSTRIAL (FONEI)
COMPOSITION OF FONEIIS TECHNICAL COMMITTEE
Director                                  Alternate
1. Lic. Mario Ramon Beteta,                   Lic. Jesus Silva-Herzog
Undersecretary of Finance                 General Director of Public Credit
(Secretariat of Finance)
2. Lic. Hector Hernandez                      Lic. Agustin Lopez Munguia
Gene ral Director of Economic Studies     (Deputy Director Economic Studies)
(Ministry of Finance)                     (Secretariat of Finance)
3.  Lie. Jos6 Campillo Saenz                  Lie. Guillermo Becker
Undersecretary of Industry and            Director of Industries
Commerce                                  (Secretariat of Industry and Commerce)
4. Lic. Ernesto Fernandez Hurtado             Lic. Miguel Mancera
Director General                          Deputy Director General
BANXICO                                   BANXICO
5. Ing. Ignacio Deschamps                     Lic. Alfredo Phillips Olmedo
President IMIT                            Manager (International Organizations)
(but Representative of BANXICO)           BANXICO
6.  Lie. Manuel Calder6n de la Barca          Lic. Pedro Galicia
Deputy Director General (NAFIN)           Manager(International Department)
(NAFIN)
7.  Ing. Alejandro Alvarez Guerrero           Mr. Pablo Morera
President                                 CONCAMIN member
CONCAMIN
DFCD
February 14, 1972



ANNEX 12
MEXICO
FONDO DE BQUIPAMIENTO INDUSTRIAL (FONEI)
CURRICULA VITAE
A.  LIC. SERGIO LUIS CANO -  Fiduciary Delegate
PROFESSIONAL BACKGROUND - Licentiate in Economics - Universidad
Nacional Autonoma de Mexico
- Training in the Statistical Office of the
Ministry of Finance
- Training E C L A - Santiago, Chile
EXPERIENCE               - Several jobs in the Statistical Office
of the Ministry of Finance and at BANXICO
- Undersecretary of Industry and Commerce
- Permanent Representative of Mexico in L?FTA
B. LIC. RAUL ACEVEDO CORTEZ - Chief, Operations Department
PROFESSIONAL BACKGROUND - Licentiate in Economics - Universidad Nacional
Autonoma de Mexico
EXPERIENCE               - Several jobs in the Ministry of Financeg and
in the Research and Foreign Trade Section of
BANXICO
- Several jobs at FOMEX culminating in that of
Deputy Director
C. LIC. HEBERTO GONZALES-KARG - Chief, Technical Department
PROFESSIONAL BACKGROUND - Licentiate in Economics - Instituto Tecnolbgico
de Monterrey
- Master of Business Administration - Harvard
University
- Training at Tegel, Berlin (Fed. Rep. of Germany)
- Public Accountant - Instituto Tecnolbgico de
Monterrey
EXPERIENCE               - Several jobs in NAFIN
- Several jobs *ith IDB
- Finance Officer, IDB, Regional Office
Montevideo, Uruguay
DFCD
February 14, 1972



ANNEX 13
MEXICO
FONDO DE EQUIPA)IENTO INDUSTRIAL (FONEI)
PROJECTED SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS, 1972-76
(In US$ million)
19721'  1973     1974      1975     1976Z/
SOURCES
Net profit                            (0.28)   (0.76)   (0.18)      .45     1.47
Central Bank loan                     3.00      8.0o    12.00    12.00    15.00
IBRD loan and others                  2.00      8.00    11.00    14.00    20.00
Sub-loans recoveries                    -        -         .37     2.56     5.38
Non-reimbursable                      5.00     5.00               1.50     3.00
Government contribution
9.72    20.24    23.19    30.51    44.85
USES
Loans                                 8.72    20.24    23.19    29.01    41.85
Loan repayment                          -       -         -        1.50     3.00
Changes in cash positions             1.00-
9.72    20.24    23.19    30.51    44.85
/ Assumes disbursementes of the Bank loan beginning September 1, 1972.
/ Assumes additional foreign borrowing in that year, of US$ 50 million with
up to US$ 20 million disbursements.
/ Assuming additional loan from BANXICO of US$ 5 million in 1975 and US$ 15 million
in 1976.
W This item does not represent a real repayment to the Bank. It reflects repayments
by the Government which increase FONEI's own resources.
DFCD
February 14, 1972



ANNEX 14
MEXICO
FONDO DE EQUIPANIENTO INDUSTRIAL (FONEI)
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS 1972-76
(In U3$ million )
19721v   1973     1974      1975     197 >
ASSETS
Loans                             8.72    28.96      51.78    78.23    1114 .70
Cash                              1.00     1.00       1.00     1.00       1.00
9.72    29.96     52.78    79.23    115.70
LIABILITTES
Loans
Central Bank=/                    3.00    11.00      23.00    35.00      50.00
IBRD and others                   2.00    10.00      21.00    33.50      50.50
Total Loans                 5.00    21.00      44.oo    68.50    100.50
Endowment
Non-reimbursable                  5.00    10.00      10.00    11.50 L/  14j.50O
Government contribution
Retained earnings (loss)          (.28)   (1.04)    (1.22)    (.77)        .70
Total                      4.72     8.96       8.78     9.23      15.20
Total Liability and Endowment    9.72    29.96       52.78    79.23    115.70
1/ Assumes disbursements of the Bank loan beginning September 1, 1972.
2/ Assumes  additional foreign borrowing in that year,- of US$ 50 million with
up to US$ 20 million disbursements.
3 Assuming additionalloan from BANXICO of US$ 5 million in 1975 and US$ 15 million
in 1976.
/ These increases reflects repayments of the Bank's loan made by the Government which
increase FONEI's own resources.
CF   Februarfy 14, 1972



ANN EXi,
~ICO
FONDO DE EQUIPA[IENTO INDUSTRIAL (FONEI)
PROJECTED INCOME STAT13PNTS, 1972-76
(in US$ million)
19722;/  1973     1974     1975      1976/
INCOME
Interest                        .33      1.93     3.86      6.34,   10.37
Fees                             -        .02       .03      .03      .06
Total Income              .33       1.95     3.89     6.37    l0.43
EXPENSES
Interest                       .12       1.45     2.87     4.79      7-5
Commitment fees                .09        .25      .19       .11      .38
Fees                            -         .01      .01       .02      .03
Purchase of negative
feasibility studies          .20        .50      .50       .50      .50
Administrative/               .20        .50       .50      .50      .50
Total Expenses            .61       2.71     4.07     5.92      8.96
Net Profit (Loss)             (.28)      (.76)    (.18)      .15     1.47
1/ Assumes disbursements of the Bank loan beginning September 1, 1972
i Assumes additional foreign borrowing in that year, of US$ 50 million with
up to US$ 20 million disbursements.
2/ Besides regalar salary FONEIIs enployees will receive a yearly bonus
from BANXICO net profits.
DFCD
February 14, 1972



ANNwEx 16
MEXICO
FONIXD DE EQUIPAMIE-NTO INlUJSTRIAL (FONEI)
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(in US$ 000)
Year                  Quarter                Amount             Cumulative
1972A/                  III                    400                 400
IV                  1,600               2,000
1973                      I                  1,700               3,700
II                  1,900               5,600
III                  2,100               7,700
IV                  2,300              10,000
1974                      I                  2,500              12,500
II                 2,700               15,200
III                  2,800              18,000
IV                 3,000               21,000
1975                      I                  3,500              24,500
II                  4,200              28,700
III                  4,800              33,500
1975z/                  1IV                  1,500              35,000
35,000
l/ Only one month.
DFCD
February 14, 1972



