Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11992
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SCARP TRANSITION PILOT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1693-PAK)
JUNE 15, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of currency (abbreviation) = Pakistani Rupee (PRs)
Appraisal Year (1985):                       US$1.00 = PRs 15.9
Intervening Years (1986-1990):              US$1.00 = PRs 18.9
Completion Year (1992):                     US$1.00 = PRs 25.0 (est.)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot (ft)           =          30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 mile (mi)           =          1.609 kilometers (km)
i acre (ac)           =          0.405 hectare (ha)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADBP       Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
DCA        Development Credit Agreement
FGW        Fresh Groundwater
GOP        Government of Pakistan
M & E      Monitoring and Evaluation
OFWM       On-Farm Water Management
O & M      Operation and Maintenance
PMO        Project Management Office
RMP        Resident Mission in Pakistan
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
SCARP    Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
SGW        Saline Groundwater
STW        SCARP Tubewell
WAPDA    Water and Power Development Authority
WUA        Water Users' Association



FOR OFWCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 15, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECr: Project Completion Report on Pakistan
SCARP Transition Pilot Project (Credit 1693-PAK)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Pakistan - SCARP Transition Pilot
Project (Credit 1693-PAK) prepared by the South Asia Regional Office with Part II contributed
by the Borrower.
The project aimed to test implementation of Government's policy of privatizing
fresh groundwater pumping, especially to confirm that small farmers would participate, and to
increase agricultural production through improved water use.
After a slow start-up, caused by delayed procurement and appointment of
consultants, most physical targets were met. Privatization was substantially assisted by the
Government of the Punjab shutting down public tubewells as planned. Costs were only 68
percent of estimates because of over-estimation and Rupee devaluation. An unexpected outcome
was that many farmers preferred diesel pumps so that the electrical power component of the
project was not fully implemented.
The outcome of the pilot project is rated as satisfactory. The project provided a
conclusive demonstration that implementation of Government's tubewell privatization policy was
practical. The re-estimated economic rate of return of 32 percent is based, however, on assumed
future crop production benefits which may be exaggerated: early data are inconclusive.
Institutional objectives were met only partially due to the mixed performance of implementing
agencies. Sustainability appears likely, although the PCR notes that water quality and watertable
levels need to be closely monitored.
The PCR provides a satisfactory account of the project experience, although more
adequate monitoring and evaluation could have allowed a fuller discussion of project results and
issues. It is intended to audit the project to examine, inter alla, production, sustainability and
equity aspects, and as an input into a later impact study of this important privatization initiative.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SCARP TRANSITION PILOT PROJECT
(Cr.1 693-PAK)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE  ............................  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY               ...................              ......... iii
PARTI ....................                                                        1
1. Project Identity ............           ..1.............. 
2. Background .......                                                            1
3. Project Objectives and Description ............................   2
4. Project Design and Organization ............................   3
5. Project Implementation ..............                                         4
6. Project Results   ............................   6
7. Project Sustainability ............ ..                                        7
8. Bank Performance ..............                                               7
9. Borrower Performance ..............                                           8
10. Project Relationship ............ ..                                         8
11. Consulting Services ............ ..                                          9
12. Project Documentation and Data ............................ 9
PART II . ......................... ...   10
PART m ....................  12
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits   .............       ..............  12
2. Project Timetable ....     .......................  12
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
3. Credit Disbursements ..........................  14
4. Project Implementation ..........................  14
A. Physical Achievements ..........................  14
B. Consulting Services ..........................  15
5. Project Cost and Financing ..........................  15
A. Project Cost ..........................  15
B. Project Financing ..........................  15
6. Project Results .........................  16
A. Direct Benefits .........................  16
B. Economic Impact .........................  16
C. Financial Impact .........................  . 17
D. Studies .........................  18
7. Status of Covenants .........................  19
8. Use of Bank Resources .........................  19
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks) .........................  19
B. Missions .........................  20
ANNEX TABLES
Table 1    Mid-Term Impact Evaluation Survey - Summary of Findings
Table 2    Project Costs
Table 3    Estimated Unit Costs of Private Tubewell Installation
Table 4    Annual Exchange and Inflation Rates
Table 5    Financial and Economic Prices
Table 6    Agricultural Production Assumptions
Table 7    Costs of Production
Table 8    Without Project Cost Stream
Table 9    With Project Cost Stream
Table 10   Project Cost and Benefit Streams



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SCARP TRANSITION PILOT PROJECT
(Cr.1 693-PAK)
PREFACE
1.        This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the SCARP Transition Pilot Project
in Pakistan for which Credit 1693-PAK in the amount of SDR 8.7 million (US$10.0 million
equivalent) was approved on May 8, 1986. The original closing date was extended once by one year,
and a second time by six months to June 30, 1992. The credit account was kept open beyond the
closing date to accommodate final withdrawal applications, and pending refund of an outstanding
amount in the Special Account. Actual disbursement amounted to SDR 4.56 million, or 52% of the
credit. The undisbursed balance of SDR 4.14 million was cancelled as of March 30, 1993, the date
the outstanding amount in the Special Account was fully refunded.
2.         Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program mission'/, which visited Pakistan in February/March 1992, and revised by the Agriculture
Operations Division, Country Department III, South Asia Region. Preparation was based on a
review of the President's Report (No. P-4273-PAK, dated April 15, 1986) and the legal documents
(dated May 28, 1986); the Project Implementation Volume (dated June 12, 1986); supervision
reports, project files, and a draft PCR prepared by the project supervisory consultants; field visits;
and discussions with project staff and consultants, and IDA staff associated with the Project. Part
II was prepared by the Borrower.
'/  M. Sugimura - mission leader/agronomist, Ms. S. Marzin - agricultural economist, and S. Rajagopal - irrigation engineer
(consultant).



I



iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SCARP TRANSITION PILOT PROJECT
(Cr.1 693-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The objective of the pilot project was to develop a replicable approach to implementing the
Government's policy of transferring the responsibility for fresh groundwater pumping in SCARP
(Salinity Control and Reclamation Project) areas from the public to the private sector to meet more
effectively both irrigation and drainage requirements. The project was to test whether farmers
would be willing and able to install their own tubewells when Government tubewells were shut down.
It was expected that agricultural production and farm incomes would increase through on-farm
improvements and conjunctive use of surface and groundwater supplies, and groundwater pumping
to prevent waterlogging. The project, phased over four years (FY87 to FY90), was to be
implemented in the Khanqah Dogran block of SCARP I in Punjab Province. The area contained
about 46,000 ha (114,000 acres) of cultivated land and about 11,500 farm families.
Implementation
2.    Actual project implementation took about 5V2 years. The original credit closing date
(December 31, 1990) was extended first by one year, and then by six months to June 30, 1992. Slow
implementation progress was largely due to problems in procuring electrification materials and
equipment, delays in appointment of the project supervisory consultants, and delays in submission
of withdrawal applications.
3.     Physical targets for the three main components, (i) electricity distribution system
improvement, (ii) private tubewell installation, and (iii) irrigation and drainage improvement, had
been almost fully achieved by the final credit closing date. There were some noticeable changes in
the original plan of these components, namely cancellation of power load management, and
installation of private tubewells in excess of required pumpage. With regard to monitoring and
evaluation, this component was delayed because the electrification component did not get underway
for over two years, thus delaying the impact evaluation study. Due to this delay, the full evaluation
results are not available.
4.    Actual project cost was about US$14.9 million (PRs 302 million), as compared to the
original estimate of US$21.8 million (PRs 384 million). The lower actual costs are largely due to
over-estimation at appraisal of the costs of private tubewell installation, and electrification materials
and equipment. In addition, devaluation of the Rupee against the US dollar and SDR contributed
to the reduction in US dollars.



iv
Results
5.     The pilot project demonstrated that farmers would install and operate their own small
tubewells if the large government-operated deep tubewells were closed. However, it became
apparent that the high cost of providing the distribution system for electrically operated private
tubewells and the high level of subsidy for electrical connections would not make this a sustainable
proposition. On the other hand, the installation of diesel-operated tubewells was shown to be
viable. In many instances, farmers used the diesel engines of their tractors to operate these wells
(through a belt drive).
6.     In the pilot project area, almost 70% of irrigation water demand is met from groundwater
pumping. Hence, farmers have a strong interest in installing their own tubewells if the publicly
operated tubewells are closed. If adequate income is ensured, small and medium farmers can afford
to install diesel-powered tubewells. The "transition" concept has been successful under these
conditions in the pilot project area and can be replicated in other areas where groundwater
contribution to irrigation is significant.
7.     As regards project impact on agricultural production, it is too early to make such
assessment. Data from the project evaluation survey indicate that, so far, there has been no
increase in crop production due to the project, probably because of the delay in project start-up.
However, if the incremental production expected at appraisal should be realized, the economic rate
of return would be 32%, compared to the appraisal estimate of 20%. The higher re-estimated rate
mainly reflects substantially lower actual project costs.
Sustainability
8.     Privatization of tubewells eliminates the need for Government O&M expenditure, the
provision of which has become increasingly uncertain. Now that the wells are privatized, the full
cost of operation will have to be borne by the farmers. The additional expenses will have to be met
largely from increased income generated by additional production due to timely delivery of tubewell
water--which is now possible since the farmer is in full control of the operation. Sustainability will
thus depend on the level of additional income generated by investment in tubewells.
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.     Lessons to be learned from project execution are that: (i) in future projects, diesel-
operated tubewells should be favored over electrical tubewells because their installation avoids costly
distribution systems and connections; (ii) large Government subsidies are not needed to encourage
farmers to install their own--diesel powered--tubewells; (iii) project supervisory consultants should
be appointed at an early stage, preferably before negotiations, in order to avoid inordinate
implementation delays; (iv) increased IDA assistance may be needed for procurement of equipment
through ICB procedures; (v) the responsibility for reviewing designs of on-farm water management
(OFWM) works should be given to the project supervisory consultants in order to ensure design
consistency; and (vi) more attention should be given to monitoring and evaluation, particularly in
this type of pilot project.



1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SCARP TRANSITION PILOT PROJECT
(Cr.1 693-PAK)
PART I
1. Project Identity
Project Name      SCARP Transition Pilot Project
Credit No.               1693-PAK
RVP Unit                 South Asia Region
Country                  Pakistan
Sector            :      Agriculture
Sub-sectors              Irrigation and Drainage
2. Background
2.1  Irrigation dominates Pakistan's agriculture. About 16.2 million hectares are irrigated, which
represents nearly 75% of total cultivable land. About 90% of Pakistan's agricultural production
comes from these irrigated lands, most of which receive water from the Indus irrigation system.
While development of the Indus irrigation system over the last century made increased agricultural
production possible, it did not do so without cost. The greatly increased and continuous use of
Indus waters for irrigation went on without adequate drainage and therefore significantly altered
the hydrological balance of the Indus Basin. Seepage losses from the irrigation canal system, as well
as deep percolation from irrigated lands, caused a gradual rising of the groundwater table which led
to widespread waterlogging and salinity, threatening the agricultural potential of the irrigated area.
By the 1950s, large areas of the Indus Basin became waterlogged and soil salinity increased,
adversely affecting productivity.
2.2   To control the "twin menace" of waterlogging and salinity, GOP embarked on a series of
Salinity Control and Reclamation Projects (SCARPs) in the late 1950s. The projects aimed at
lowering the groundwater table by providing "vertical drainage" through large capacity deep
tubewells (60 to 140 1/sec capacity and 40 to 120 m depth). A total of 36 SCARPs have been
implemented so far covering a gross irrigated area of about 3.7 million hectares. Under these
projects, about 11,000 SCARP tubewells (STWs) have been installed in fresh groundwater (FGW)



2
areas, and 2,000 in saline groundwater (SGW) areas. In SGW areas, the STWs provide sub-surface
drainage, whereas in FGW areas they also provide supplementary irrigation water for conjunctive
use with canal supplies. STWs in both FGW and SGW areas are owned and operated by the
Provincial Governments. [DA's involvement in this program has been limited to SCARP Khairpur I
(Cr. 22-PAK), SCARP Khairpur II (Cr. 648-PAK), SCARP VI (Cr. 754-PAK) and SCARP Mardan
(Cr. 877-PAK).
2.3   While SCARPs were generally successful in meeting their objectives of maintaining the
groundwater table at appropriate levels and providing a supplementary source of irrigation water
for conjunctive use, their performance declined over time. The main causes of this decline include
poor management, inappropriate designs and construction materials, and inadequate funds for
operation and maintenance (O & M). These factors resulted in frequent breakdowns and poor
performance of the STWs which, in turn, led to reduced pumpage and rising groundwater tables.
The 0 & M costs of STWs increased manyfold over the years due to the rapidly increasing power
tariff, and maintenance and replacement needs. The fiscal burden of SCARPs thus became
unsustainable. Moreover, STWs did not provide farmers with a reliable source of irrigation
supplies.
2.4   The poor performance of STWs and the heavy burden on the Provincial budgets contrasted
with the unexpected boom of private tubewell installation and operation since the early sixties. In
the early eighties, GOP recognized this contrasting experience of public and private groundwater
development and adopted a policy of promoting the role of the private sector in FGW development,
including the transfer of responsibility for groundwater pumpage to the private sector in SCARP
areas with useable irrigation supplies, which is known as SCARP "Transition". In order to
implement this transition policy, a SCARP Transition Project was prepared under the UNDP
Umbrella Program (1982-1985), with the World Bank as executing agency. Based on the project
feasibility study, GOP and the Government of Punjab decided in 1985 to take up the project on a
pilot basis. The pilot project is the subject of this PCR.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1   The objective of the pilot project was to develop a replicable approach to implementing the
Government's policy of transferring responsibility for fresh groundwater pumping in SCARP
(Salinity Control and Reclamation Project) areas from the public to the private sector to meet more
effectively both irrigation and drainage requirements. The project was to test whether farmers,
particularly small farmers, with provision of credit and Government subsidy would be willing and
able to install their own tubewells when Government tubewells were shut down. It was expected
that agricultural production and farm incomes would increase through on-farm improvements and
conjunctive use of surface and groundwater supplies, and groundwater pumping to prevent
waterlogging.
3.2   The pilot project, phased over four years (FY87 to FY90), was to be implemented in the
Khanqah Dogran block of SCARP I in Punjab Province. The block, located in an area important
for growing superior quality rice (Basmati), covered about 46,000 ha (114,000 acres) of cultivated
land with about 11,500 farm units of an average size of about 4 ha (10 acres).



3
3.3   The main components of the pilot project, as appraised, were:
(a)    Electricity Distribution System Improvement: Upgrading and extension of the
electricity distribution infrastructure by reconductoring existing 11 kV lines;
constructing new 11 kV lines; providing 33/11 kV circuit breakers and accessories;
providing distribution transformers and low-tension electrical connections for private
tubewells; and installing suitable load management equipment to help pumping
during non-peak hours.
(b)    Private Tubewell Installation: (i) installation of about 2,100 small capacity private
tubewells (1,500 electrically-powered and 600 diesel-powered) to replace 213 existing
SCARP tubewells in fresh groundwater areas.
(c)    Irrigation and Drainage Improvements: (i) lining of minor canals and smaller
distributaries feeding into the pilot area (about 20 miles); (ii) watercourse renovation
by farmers with materials and technical advice provided by Government (OFWM
program).
(d)    Project Implementation Facilities: Provision of: (i) project management and
support staff; and (ii) office and other equipment for use in implementing and
monitoring the project.
(e)    Technical Assistance and Training Provision of (i) consultant's services for project
implementation; (ii) local institutional or other services for project monitoring and
evaluation (M & E); and (iii) training of agricultural field assistants in tubewell
water management.
3.4 Total project costs were estimated at US$21.8 million (PRs 383.5 million) and an IDA credit
of SDR 8.7 million (US$10 million equivalent) was to fund 46% of total costs, while the
Government and project farmers/Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP) were to
contribute 30% and 24%, respectively. Four agencies, i.e., the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA), ADBP, and Punjab's Departments of Irrigation and Agriculture, were to
implement the project with coordination provided by a Project Management Office to be established
in the Department of Irrigation.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1   Project Concept. The feasibility study, prepared during 1982 to 1985 (see Part IE/2,
Comments), laid a clear conceptual foundation for SCARP "transition" and the eventual pilot
project. Initially, the project was conceived as a normal lending operation covering Sind and Punjab.
However, following the final review of the draft feasibility report, the Government of Sind decided
not to participate, and the Government of Punjab to implement the project on a pilot scale. IDA
agreed with the Government that privatization of public SCARP tubewell pumping was an
innovative concept that required careful testing and evaluation before replication over a larger area.
4.2   Project Scope and Scale. Given that the project was the first of its kind in Pakistan, its scope
and scale were generally appropriate. Timing was also appropriate in view of the heavy fiscal
burden of SCARP 0 & M costs.



4
4.3   ProJect Preparation. The project was prepared by a local consultant, financed under the
UNDP Umbrella Project (PAK/81/004) with the Bank as executing agency. The feasibility report
was considered satisfactory, meeting the appraisal requirements. IDA management decided to
waive preparation of an SAR and to process the project based on the President's Report, given its
special nature and small size. However, the appraisal team prepared a Project Implementation
Volume, which built on the final feasibility report and appraisal findings.
4.4  Implementation of the project's physical components and supporting activities was to be
carried out by existing line agencies (para 3.4), with coordination by a Project Management Office
(PMO). The roles and responsibilities of these agencies were clearly defined and understood.
4.5  In addition to the components covered in detail by the feasibility study, a further component
(irrigation and drainage improvement) was included in the project, consisting of lining of minors
and renovation of watercourses. These improvements aimed at increasing water delivery efficiency
to the fields, and to promote the buying/selling of water supplied by private tubewells.
5. Project Implementation
5.1   Credit Disbursement.  The IDA Credit became effective in October 1986. Actual
disbursement was lower than expected, largely due to cost changes and exchange rate variations (see
para 5.2), and delays in submission of withdrawal applications. The closing date was extended by
18 months to June 30, 1992, and the credit account was kept open until October 31, 1992, to
facilitate final disbursements. Thereafter, credit closing was delayed because of late refunding of
the outstanding amount in WAPDA's Special Account. Total disbursements amounted to SDR 4.56
million (52% of the credit), leaving SDR 4.14 million unutilized, which were cancelled as of March
30, 1993--the date the outstanding amount in the Special Account was fully refunded.
5.2  Project Costs. Actual project costs, based on data provided by the supervisory consultants,
amounted to about US$14.9 million (PRs 302.4 million), compared to the original estimate of
US$21.8 million (PRs 383.5 million). There have been savings due to lower actual costs of
electrification materials and equipment, and cancellation of the load management component. The
cost of private tubewell installation was also significantly lower than expected. In addition,
devaluation of the Rupee against the US dollar and SDR contributed to the savings in US dollar
terms.
5.3   Electricity Distribution System Improvement. A total of 220 km of 11 kV feeders were
completed, representing 113% of the original target. Completion of "turn-offs" and 'hook-ups' to
private tubewells was 100% of target. In fact, all physical targets were substantially achieved by the
credit closing date (Part m, 4A). A noticable change from the original plan, as mentioned in para
5.2, was the decision to cancel installation of power load management equipment. This was
excluded since the project area was considered rather small for installing and testing the efficacy
of such equipment.
5.4   Delay of more than two years resulted from problems in procuring electrification materials
and equipment. IDA supervision missions attempted to solve the problem by relaxing criteria and
allowing WAPDA to use materials from stores to be replaced later. WAPDA reneged on these as
well. Originally, private contractors were to be employed for construction. But due to WAPDA's
administrative procedures, this was not attractive for private contractors. Eventually, the work was



5
carried out by force account, resulting in greater direct participation of WAPDA's different
departments and associated delays.
5.5 Phasing Out of SCARP Tubewells. Prior to the installation of private tubewells, all 213
SCARP tubewells were closed according to a phased program. Almost all have been privatized
using the "replacement" mode of transfer. One hundred and twenty-five (125) boreholes out of 213
tubewells were sold to individual farmers at PRs 2,000 per borehole and these farmers installed
their own pumping equipment in the boreholes. The STW pumping equipment in these tubewells
was not purchased by farmers. The concept of transferring complete STW ownership to a Water
Users' Association or a group of farmers has not worked out, partly because farmers were not sure
how they could maintain STWs and partly because they preferred to have their own tubewells.
5.6   Private Tubewell Installation. A total of 1,500 (electric) plus 600 (diesel) private tubewells
(altogether 2100) were installed, representing 100% of the original targets. The original plan had
assumed that about 70% of these 2,100 tubewells would be of 0.5 cusec and the remaining of 1.0
cusec capacity. In fact, a majority of project farmers opted for 1.0 cusec tubewells (1,740 tubewells
or 83% of total), as they were allowed to do so. The capacity of the wells installed (new plus
existing) is thus in excess of the required pumpage of 398.5 M cubic meters (323,050 acre-feet) per
year. Farmers did not opt for wells with sumps. They also did not choose pumphouses with
concrete floors. Thus, they opted for least cost solutions which they could finance themselves; less
than 10% utilized credit facilities available through ADBP.
5.7   The actual cost of drilling tubewells appears to be lower than estimated at appraisal.
Unfortunately, almost no data were collected during implementation on the precise cost of tubewell
installation including the cost of pump and motor sets. Since subsidy amounts are determined on
the basis of cost of installation, this omission is significant as actual data would have helped to lower
the burden on the government budget in follow-up projects.
5.8  Irrigation and Drainage Improvement. Improvement of delivery canals was carried out as
planned. However, there appears to have been lack of coordination between the On-Farm Water
Management (OFWM) Directorate and the Project Management Office (PMO). The SCARP
tubewells were pumping into the watercourses and therefore these channels had to have a higher
flow capacity than if they were to carry canal deliveries alone. With the installation of private
tubewells, this is not always the case, yet the OFWM Directorate renovated these watercourses for
higher capacities. It also did not allow the supervisory consultants to review its designs. It would
appear, therefore, that some unnecessary costs may have been incurred due to administrative
wrangling between departments.
5.9   Technical Assistance (TA) and Training.  While the project was well prepared,
implementation did not progress as planned. The Punjab Government considerably delayed the
recruitment of the supervisory consultants and the M & E consultants. The supervisory consultants
were finally appointed in May 1988--a full two years after the project start. The M & E consultants
were appointed only in early 1989. It was only because the electrification component was
substantially delayed (by more than two years), that the impact evaluation study could be
undertaken at all. Attention to detail in preparation facilitated the fairly smooth execution of the
project despite these inordinate delays. With regard to the training program in tubewell water
management for agricultural field assistants, no detailed accounts were found in project documents,
which suggests that this component was not given full attention during implementation.



6
6. Project Results
6.1  Impact of Pilot Operation. The objective of the project was to test the viability of
substituting small private tubewells (up to 1.0 cusec) for large government-operated deep tubewells.
In the appraisal of the follow-up project (SCARP Transition II, Cr. 2257-PAK), IDA recognized that
subsidies could not be provided on the scale of the pilot project for the installation of electrically
operated tubewells. Under the pilot project, special arrangements were made for reconductoring
and extending 11 kV transmission lines to farmer-owned tubewells at no cost to farmers. The cost
of such subsidies would have to be compared to the operating subsidies currently being borne by
the Punjab Government on SCARP tubewells. This approach, therefore, is not likely to be
replicable because of the heavy cost to the Government budget. On the other hand, it is evident
that the electrical distribution system needs improvement since it is already overloaded, but such
improvement should not be tackled under a project of this nature.
6.2  Installation of diesel-operated tubewells is replicable. In many instances, farmers use
tractors, with direct-drive belt mechanism (indigenous), to operate these wells. In the pilot project,
diesel tubewells were not given priority (para 5.6). It is interesting to note that before the project
there were 1,000 diesel and 600 electric private tubewells. This may have been due to the
unreliability of the electricity distribution system.
6.3  In the pilot project area, almost 70%  of the irrigation water demand is met from
groundwater pumping. Hence, in comparable situations farmers have a vested interest in installing
their own tubewells if the publicly operated tubewells are closed; and if adequate income is ensured
as wel, small and medium farmers can afford to do so. The transition concept has been successful
in the pilot area and can be replicated in other areas where groundwater contribution to irrigation
is significant.
6.4  Impact on Crop Productlon. The pilot project involved about 11,500 farm families and
47,500 ha of cultivable land. The original plan assumed that cropping intensity would increase from
about 125% (without project) to 150% (with project) and crop yields would also increase
significantly (by 10% to 35%). Large increases were expected in rice, wheat and sugarcane
production; the expected incremental production was: 13,800 tons (rice), 15,200 tons (wheat) and
36,900 tons (sugarcane) at full development (1995). In addition, the plan assumed that there would
be a substantial increase (over 100%) in high value crops such as vegetables and orchards, as a
result of the controlled water supply from private tubewells.
6.5   Data collected during implementation for the impact evaluation study are insufficient to show
if there has been any increase in agricultural production due to the project. This appears to be
partly the result of the delay in project start-up: actual installation of private tubewells started in
1988-89, two years behind the original schedule, and was completed in June 1992. Evaluation study
results, summarized in Annex Table 1, do not show any increase in cropped area, cropping intensity
and crop yield, when the project area is compared with the non-project area. In fact, the results
indicate a slight decrease in the project area. It should be noted that the data are based on a
comparison of two consecutive years--1989 (benchmark year) and 1990--and that the non-project
area was selected on an ad hoc basis. Though it is adjacent to the project area, conditions might
differ significantly. Hence, the results should be treated with caution. The importance of
monitoring project impact for a longer period cannot be stressed enough if proper evaluation of
actual benefits from the investment made is to be ensured.



7
6.6   Re-evaluation of Economic Rate of Return. As shown in Section 6 of Part III, the re-
estimated economic rate of return of the project is 32%, well above the original estimate of 23%.
The higher rate is mainly due to significant cost savings in private tubewell installation and
electrification, and the assumption that crop production benefits will eventually be achieved.
Although no formal farm income analysis could be done because of lack of adequate data,
affordability and profitability of private tubewells is clearly indicated by the fact that physical targets
were reached (although with changes from those expected) with very little recourse to formal credit.
However, the issue of benefit distribution among water users remains open.
6.7   Environmental Impact. It was expected that private pumping with small capacity tubewells
at shallow depths (up to 15 m) would have a positive impact on groundwater quality, at least in the
near to medium term. Water quality tests conducted in 1989-90 for 150 private tubewells indicate
that values of electric conductivity and sodium absorption ratio of the groundwater samples are
acceptable for irrigation, but residual sodium carbonates values of about two-thirds of the samples
are marginal to hazardous. It is essential that monitoring of groundwater quality be continued in
order to assess the long-term effects.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1   Tubewell privatization eliminates the need for Government O&M expenditure, the provision
of which has become increasingly uncertain. Water pumped by SCARP tubewells was never charged
to farmers at anywhere near the cost of electricity and other 0 & M expenses involved. It is
estimated that farmers were paying about 20% of the actual costs incurred. Now that the wells are
privatized, the full cost will have to be borne by the farmers. The additional expense will have to
be largely met from increased income generated by additional production due to timely delivery of
irrigation water--feasible since the farmer is now in full control of the operation. Sustainability will
thus depend on the level of income generated by the investment in tubewells.
7.2   Sustainability issues are twofold: (i) pumping at appropriate rates to maintain pre-transition
groundwater levels; and (ii) financial viability of the installed electric tubewells, which would ensure
that farmers pay their electricity bills on time to avoid disconnection. If defaults, and hence
disconnections, were to happen on a large scale, groundwater might increase to unacceptable levels
due to reduced pumping perhaps forcing the Government to restart a subsidized pumping program.
7.3  In addition, the impact of over-installation of pumping capacity under the project would have
to be monitored. If these pumps were to start operating in excess of (drainage and irrigation)
requirements, groundwater levels would drop, which could adversely affect the suction capacity of
the small pumps. If there was such an effect, it would act as a balancing factor by reducing
pumpage.
8. Bank Performance
8.1   The performance of the Bank from project identification through appraisal was satisfactory.
The Bank provided adequate resources to meet the objectives and targets of project processing.
Its assistance in project preparation was particularly useful for GOP; there were four short missions
to review the feasibility study and assist GOP and local consultants in the preparation of the project.



8
The Bank's supervision effort was generally satisfactory. A total of seven missions were fielded
between 1986 and 1991. Relatively good continuity of mission staff was maintained.
8.2   Lessons which may be relevant to the Bank and the Borrower include the following:
(i)         In future projects, diesel-operated tubewells should be favored over electrical
tubewells because their installation avoids costly distribution systems and
connections (see paras 6.1, 6.2).
(ii)        Large Goverment subsidies are not needed to encourage farmers to install
their own--diesel operated--tubewells (see paras 6.1, 6.2).
(iii)       The planned four-year implementation period turned out to be too short
because of delays in selection and appointment of supervisory consultants and
in procurement of equipment. Under a similar project, it would be advisable
to appoint consultants at an early stage, preferably before negotiations, in
order to avoid inordinate delays (see para 5.9). In addition, procurement of
equipment through ICB procedures may require increased assistance from
IDA in order to avoid delays. If procurement delays are to be expected due
to normal implementing agency procedures, a realistic schedule should be
adopted at appraisal (see para 5.4).
(iv)        The role of reviewing designs of OFWM works should be given to the project
supervisory consultants in order to ensure consistency (see para 5.8).
(v)         More attention should be given to impact evaluation, particularly of this type
of project, with respect to study design, timely start-up, and continuation after
project completion (see paras 5.7 and 6.5).
9. Borrower Performance
9.1 The Government of Punjab is to be commended for successfully carrying out the phased
shutdown of SCARP tubewells and their replacement by private tubewells. The Government's
stated policy was maintained throughout project implementation. However, the Provincial
implementing agencies did not perform equally well. There were considerable delays in the
appointment of supervisory and M & E consultants. There was lack of coordination between the
OFWM Directorate and the PMO possibly resulting in some unnecessary cost (see para 5.8).
WAPDA did not meet its obligation of providing materials from the stores as agreed with IDA (see
para 5.4). While these mishaps might have seriously endangered the project concept being tested,
it was fortunate that the Government did not waver from its policy package.
10. Project Relationship
10.1 The relationship between the Borrower and the Bank was satisfactory throughout project
implementation. The assignment of supervision responsibility to the Resident Mission (RMP) was
beneficial. Most of the project-specific problems were resolved relatively easily without time-
consuming consultation with Bank headquarters.



9
10.2 Bank and Borrower relationship with other relevant parties, including line agencies and
consultants providing various services, was by and large satisfactory.
11. Consulting Services
11.1  General satisfaction with the performance of the project-funded consultants, for engineering
supervisory services and impact evaluation, was expressed by PMO and RMP staff. For the
supervisory services, the same consulting firm was appointed which had conducted the project
feasibility study. For the evaluation study, a local research institute was engaged. As already
mentioned (paras 5.9 and 9.1), their appointment was delayed by two years, and currently available
evaluation results are therefore inconclusive.
11.2 According to the supervisory consultants, the scope of their services was not well defined in
their contract, which resulted in delayed procurement of electrification materials and equipment.
The consultants also claimed that they could not have enough influence on the activities executed
by WAPDA and the OFWM Directorate, for the same reason.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1 The President's Report, legal documents, and Project Implementation Volume provided a
basic framework for the Bank, Government, and project authorities during project implementation.
12.2 Supervision reports, other relevant project documents available at the Bank, and the draft
PCR prepared by the supervisory consultants were useful references for preparation of this PCR.
However, adequate data were not available for the re-evaluation of the project's economic and
financial impact, with respect to actual costs of private tubewell installation, agricultural production,
and prices of farm inputs and outputs.



10
PART 11
1. Bank Performance
1.1   The World Bank's performance during the evolution and implementation of the project has
been commendable. Bottlenecks and difficulties encountered during implementation were readily
overcome with the timely intervention and prompt help of the World Bank. At one stage it was felt
that the proposed Khangah Dogran Grid Station, which WAPDA had planned to complete during
1987-88, would not be ready by the time the STP Project was then scheduled to be completed i.e.
by December 1991. As completion of this Grid Station was an essential pre-requisite for the
successful completion of STP Project, the World Bank, on Borrower's request readily agreed to
meet 80 percent cost (Rs 10 million) for completing the civil works of the Grid Station out of the
savings of IDA funding on STP Project.
1.2   There was also no difficulty in getting funds from World Bank. Necessary sanctions to the
Contracts under ICB and LCB were promptly accorded by the Bank. The processing and clearance
of reimbursement claims by the Bank has also been very satisfactory.
2. Borrower's Performance
2.1   The STP Project was of a unique nature and was the first one of its kind to be implemented
in Pakistan. It was also a sensitive project because it aimed at closing down the SCARP tubewells,
from which the Government had been providing supplementary irrigation water to the farmers for
over 25 years at a highly subsidized cost, and had to persuade the farmers to install their own
tubewells instead, which provided ensured and timely additional water to them for maintaining (and
raising) the level of agricultural development already attained by them. It was not easy for the
implementing staff to motivate the farmers to accept the alternative course. However, their task
was made easy to some extent because of the incentives offered under the project to the farmers
for installing their own tubewells. One of the incentives was the payment of subsidy of Rs 16,000/-
for connection cost of an electric tubewell and the subsidy of Rs 4,000/- to cover driling cost in case
of a diesel tubewell. The disparity in the subsidy of the two types of tubewells has been responsible
for very slow pace of installation of diesel tubewells under the project. Most of the farmers
installing diesel tubeweDls even did not bother to file claims for payment of subsidy of Rs 4,000/-
because for them it was a paltry amount.
2.2   The project work could not progress according to schedule during the first two years of its
implementation, mainly because:
(a)   The electrical equipment and materials required for the project was to
be procured through ICB. Due to the time consuming procedure laid
down by WAPDA the same could start arriving at site of work after
almost two years of project implementation period had elapsed. It was
expected that the equipment and materials of STP Project would be
procured within the very first year of project implementation.
(b)   The Supervisory Consultants were engaged on May 09, 1988 while the
project had taken off in July 1986.



11
From above following lessons may be learnt for the future.
(i)   If subsidy for installing of private tubewells is to be allowed on future
SCARP Transition/Private Tubewell Development projects, its amount
should be the same for either of the two types of tubewells.
(ii)  If goods required for a project are to be procured through ICB, the
concerned agency to do so should act promptly and if necessary try to
streamline the procedure already laid down for procurement process
so that its completion in the minimum time is ensured.
(iii) It is absolutely necessary that Supervisory Consultants, if needed for
any project, should be placed in position as soon as the project
implementation starts.
3. Project Relationship
3.1   The effectiveness of the relationship between the Bank and the Borrower is proved by the
fact that project has been satisfactorily implemented and is now coming to a close, even though the
project completion date of December 1990 had to be extended twice, once by one year i.e. up to
December 1991 and by six months i.e. up to June 1992 for the second time. Such an effectiveness
of relationship between the Bank and the Borrower is largely due to the frequent visits of
Review/Supervisory Missions of the World Bank on the project, their discussions with the
implementing agencies and the concerned higher level officer of the provincial government in
particular and of GO Pakistan in general. After each visit, the Mission issued detailed Aide
Memoire which were very helpful in getting over bottlenecks and in stepping up the pace of project
implementation.
4. Comments on Part HI
4.1   The data presented are accurate and in agreement with our records.



12
PART III
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit                          Purpose                     Year of      Status           Comnments
Title                                                           Approval
SCARP Khairpur I   Control of salinity and waterlogging.          1962        Closed    -
(Cr. 22-PAK)                                                                   1971
SCARP Khairpur 11  Tile drainage and irrigated farming development.  1976     Cosed    PCR issued 1989.
(Cr. 648-PAK)                                                                  1985
SCARP VI           Control of salinity and waterlogging.          1978        Closed    -
(Cr. 754-PAK)                                                                  1992
SCARP Mardan       Irrigation development including surface drainage  1979    Closed    -
(Cr. 877-PAK)      improvement and installation of tile drainage.              1992
Second SCARP       Replacement of government operated SCARP       1991       Ongoing   Effective since April
Transition         tubewells in fresh groundwater areas of Punjab and                   30, 1992.
(Cr. 2257-PAK)    Sindh by private tubewells.
2. Project Timetable
Item                      Date Planned"                    Date Revised                   Date Actual
1st Revision      Last Revision
Identification               Feb. 1982                                                       1982
Preparation              June 82 to Aug.83              -                  -             1982 to 1984
Appraisal                    Oct. 1983           March 1985 2/       June 1985 3/          June 1985
Negotiation                  June 1984             Oct. 1985 2/     March 1986 3/    March 11, 1986
Board Approval               Sept. 1984            Jan. 1986 2/      June 1986 3/         May 8, 1986
Credit Signature                NA.                     -                  -             May 28, 1986
Credit Effectiveness         Jan. 1985                  -                  -              Oct. 8, 1986
Credit Closing                  NA.             Dec. 31, 1990 4/  June 30, 1992 5/    June 30, 1992
Credit Completion               NA.             Dec. 31, 1990 4/         NA.           March 30, 1993 6/
l/ Project processing schedule as planned in the Pre-Project Brief dated February 2, 1982.
2/ Project processing schedule as revised in Project Brief dated October 19, 1984.
3 Revised Project Brief dated January 17, 1985.
4/ Original date planned (DCA, Sec. 2.03, and President's Report, para 68).
5/ Latest DCA amendment.
6 The credit account was kept open beyond the closing date to accommodate final disbursement
applications (four months) and pending refund of the outstanding amount in WAPDA's Special
Account.



13
Comments
The following major issues were raised at each stage of the project cycle (as
documented in IDA files).
Identifi'cation:  Issues raised in the "Pre-project Brief" included:  (a) financial
arrangements that would encourage and enable the private sector to take responsibility of tubewell
operation in SCARP areas, where such operation is highly subsidized by GOP; (b) need to develop
a program of conjunctive ground/surface water utilization that would assure adequate drainage to
maintain groundwater tables and irrigation water supply to meet crop water requirements; (c)
organizational options for project implementation at the Provincial level; and (d) 0 & M entity for
transferred and/or new tubewells.
Preparation: Up to end 1984, the project was formulated as a normal lending
operation under the title of "SCARP Transition and Improvement Project" involving the Provinces
of Punjab and Sind. However, the January 1985 final review of the draft feasibility report by GOP
and the two provincial governments resulted in the the Government of Sind deciding not to
participate in the project at this initial stage for political reasons and the Government of Punjab to
take up the project on a reduced pilot scale. Hence, the project was reformulated into a pilot
project in 1985. Major issues raised prior to departure of the appraisal mission based on the
revised feasibility study were: (a) need for a policy decision by the Punjab Government and an
announcement that public pumpage in the project area would be phased out and deteriorated
SCARP tubewells not replaced; (b) remission of double abiana (water charges) in the project area;
(c) timely and adequate provision of credit and electrical improvements and hook-ups for small
capacity tubewells. Other issues included funding and cost sharing arrangements for OFWM and
canal lining, institutional arrangements for project implementation, and simplification of project
documentation by not preparing an SAR.
Appraisal: The "Issues Paper" raised the policy issues listed in (a), (b) and (c) above
again, because formal approval by the Punjab Government had not been obtained by the appraisal
mission, but they were resolved before negotiations. The questions of project documentation
without SAR preparation and appropriate procurement method for the electrification component
were also raised but resolved later.
Negotiations: The only condition of negotiations was approval of the PC-1 (Planning
Commission Proforma-1) by the Central Development Working Party.



14
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY37      FY38       FMY9       FY90       FY91       FY92       FY93
Original Estimate 1/
- SDR'000                          2.3        5.8       7.6        8.4         8.7        -
- USS'000                          2.6        6.7       8.8        9.7        10.0        -          -
Actual 2/
- SDR'00                          1i5         2.0       3.0        3.4         4.9        5.0      4.6 3/
- USS'00                           1.9        2.7       3.9        4.3         6.5       6.6       6.1 3/
Actual as % of Appraisal
- SDR                              65         34        39         40          56         57        52
- USS                              73         40        44         44          65         66        61
Date of Final Disbursement: January 19, 1993. 4/
1/ President's Report, April 1986.
2/ IDA records.
3/ Decrease due to refund of amount outstanding in Special Account.
4/ The final application (No. 26/P, received October 29, 1992) was erroneously returned to the Borrower and
resubmitted in December 1992.
4. Project Implementation
A. Physical Achievements
Item                                              Unit      Originl Target        Achievement       % of OrigInal
(as of June 192)       Target
L Closure of SCARP Tubewells                      No.              213                213                100
2 Installation of Private Tubewelis
- Electric                                        No.             1,500              1,500               100
- Diesel                                          No.              600                600                100
3. ADBP Private Tubewell Loans
- Application                                     No.             1,000               198                 20
- Sanction                                        No.             1,000               197                 20
4. ElectrifIcation
- 11 kV main feeders                              km               195                220                113
- 11 kV turn-offs to private tubewells            km               579                532                 92
- Hook-ups to private tubewells                   No.             1,500              1,500               100
5. Cvii Works of Khanqah Dogmn Grid Station
- Residential building                             %               100                100                100
- Control building                                 %               100                100                100
- Concreting foundation of 132 kV towers          No.               74                 60                 81
6. Irrigation Improvement
- Uning of minors and distributaries             Miles              20                 20                100
- Watercourse renovation                          No.              165                167                101
1/ Targets as given in Project Implementation Volume (June 1986); no detailed physical targets were shown in the President's Report.



15
B. Consulting Services
Original Target                Achievement               % of Original Target
. ....................... (staff months) .
Local Consultants                         368                           564                           153
Expatriate Consultants 2/                  10                       Not engaged
"/ Including team leader (48 s/rn), field survey and implementation (156 s/m), monitoring (80 s/m), power load management (80 s/m),
canal lining (4 s/m). Engaged from May 9, 1988 to June 30, 1992.
2/ Irrigation agronomist (6 s/mn), power load management (4 s/m).
5. Project Cost and Financing
A. Project Cost
Item                                 Original Estimate I/                 Actual              Actual as % of Original
(President's Report)        (as of end June 1M)
PRs milion    US$ million  PRs milion2/ USS million 3/        PRs          USS
Electrical Distribution System       191.0           10.9          183.24         9.00           96           83
Private Tubewells                     94.9           5.4           40.66          1.91           43           35
Irrigation Improvement Works          42.9           2.4           44.16          2.29          103           95
Monitoring & Evaluation               19.5           1.1            5.15          0.24           26           22
Technical Assistance & Training       20.0           1.1            17.57         0.83           88            75
Project Management                    15.2           0.9           11.66          0.60           77           67
Total                              313.5           21.1          302.44         14.87          79           6a
1/ Including physical and price contingencies.
2/ Based on data provided by the project supervisory consultants.
3/ Estimated by applying average annual exchange rates to annual expenditure data in local currency provided by the supervisory
consultants.
Comments
Cost savings are largely due to the lower actual cost of private tubewell installation, M
& E, and electrification materials and equipment. Devaluation of the Rupee against the US dollar
also contributed to savings in US dollar terms.
B. Project Financing
Original Estimate                 Actual as of end June 1992
. .................... (US$ million) .
1. GOP                                               6.6  (30%)                             7.3  (49%)
2. Farmers and ADBP                                  5.2  (24%)                             1.5  (10%)
3. IDA                                              10.0  (46%)                             6.1  (41%)
Total                                           21.8  (100ff)                          14.9  (100%)



16
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indkators                                                  Original Estimate                 PCR Estimate 2V
No. of Beneficiaries (farm families)                              11,500                          11,500
Benefitting Agricultural Area (acre)                             114,500                          114,500
Range of Expected Increase in Net Farm Income (%)               27 to 87
Assumed that the same incre-
Incremental Crop Production ('000 tons):                                             mental crop production and
income as estimated originally
would be attained but because of
- Paddy                                                            13.8              delays realization would be in
- Wheat                                                            15.2              around 1997.
- Sugarcane                                                        36.9
- Fodder                                                          45.1
- Oilseeds                                                         3-7
- Pulses                                                           0.6
- Vegetables                                                       27.0
- Orchards                                                         15.4
1/ As shown in Project Implementation Volume (June 1986).
2/ At full development (1997).
Comments
Early project impact evaluation results presented by the M & E consultants suggest that
no clear benefits have yet materialized.
B. Economic Impact
Economic Rate of Return                                                                                       (%)
Appraisal Estimate (President's Report)                                                        23
PCR Estimate                                                                                   32
Underlying Assumptions'l (PCR Estimate)
(a)       Project Life and Phasing  Twenty years, with full development reached two
years later than anticipated at appraisal (i.e., in project year 12, FY97).
Phasing follows actual private tubewell installation (i.e., two years delay) while
assuming the same build-up of agricultural production as at appraisal. The
analysis was carried out in constant FY92 prices.
1/   Based on Project Implementation Volume (June 1986).



17
(b)    Prices: The economic prices used are presented in Annex Table 5. Prices for
internationally traded goods are based on World Bank commodity price
forecasts, while those for non-traded goods are based on average domestic
financial prices. For all main traded outputs, except wheat, export parity
prices have been used; import parity prices were used for wheat and fertilizer.
The market wage for unskilled labor (PRs 35/workday) has been discounted
by 25% to allow for periods of slack demand. Other domestic prices and price
components have been translated into border prices by applying a standard
conversion factor of 0.86.
(c)    Project Costs: Project costs were provided by the supervisory consultants
(Section 5/A [now updated to June 1992] and Annex Table 2 [up to March
1992]). Total costs by project completion time were estimated by the PCR
mission for the economic analysis. Costs were converted to constant FY92
terms using the annual inflation and exchange rates shown in Annex Table 4.
(d)    Project Benefits: Benefits consist of the expected incremental crop production
as well as cost savings from closing the old SCARP tubewells. Assumptions
concerning increases in cropped area and yields are presented in Annex Table
6, and per acre input use and specific production costs are in Annex Table 7.
(e)    Economic Rate of Return: Actual economic costs and re-evaluated benefit
streams over the project life and corresponding ERR are given in Annex
Tables 8-10.
Comments
Information on actual cost of private tubewell installation was not available. Estimates
based on interviews with farmers, information from the supervisory consultants and a local
manufacturer are presented in Annex Table 3. These estimates show that the cost of private
tubewell installation was significantly lower than anticipated at appraisal. This result is in
agreement with the M&E consultant's benchmark survey. One reason may be that farmers have
opted for cheaper equipment, which may not last as long as more expensive equipment. Also, about
half of the farmers who installed diesel tubewells did not buy the 12 HP HSD engine as expected
but use their own or a hired tractor.
C. Financial Impact
(Not Applicable)



18
D. Studies
Study  1tk                 Purpose as Defined at Appraisal                  Status                Impact of Study
'Impact Evaluation    To assess farmers' responses to SCARP    The 'Benchmark Survey' was       Yet to be seen
Study' by Punjab      transition and its initial impact, particularly conducted in 1989 and the survey
Economic Research     on small farmers and tenants, and the feasi- report issued in Oct. 1990. In 1991,
Institute (PERI)      bility of and most effective approach to    the "Mid-term Evaluation Survey'
replicating SCARP transition.          was carried out and issued in Oct.
1991. The final impact evaluation
report dated Feb. 1992 was received
by IDA in Jan. 1993.
'Project Performance    Continued assessment of the project's  Monitoring, which started in kharif  Results so far do
Monitoring' by the    capacity to meet drainage requirements on  1989, covers water table variations,  not indicate any
supervisory consultants, a sustained basis.                   operation factor of private tubewells, adverse effect due
groundwater abstraction, water    to transition of
quality of private tubewells, and soil SCARP tubewells.
salinity.
Comments
Because of the delay in the appointment of consultants for the above studies, the
results, particularly of the impact evaluation study, were of limited value. SCARP Transition II
(Cr.2257-PAK) did not benefit from this study. One IDA supervision mission commented on the
usefulness of the study.



19
7. Status of Covenants
DCA                            Covenant                 Deadline for Compliance               Status
Sec. 3.01       Borrower to ensure that Punjab Gov.,          Unspecified       In compliance; OPA was updated to
WAPDA and ADBP carry out the Project                           reflect initial delays.
in accordance with Implementation
Program and Operational Action Plan.
Schedule 4      Project Management Office to be               Unspecified       In compliance.
A.2             established and staffed.
Schedule 4      Project Area Coordination Committee to     At least every three    In compliance; meetings were held
A.3             be established and to meet regularly.           months          as required but not every 3 months.
Schedule 4      Provincial Policy Committee to be       At least every six months In compliance; meetings were held
A.4             established and to meet regularly.                              as required but not every 6 months.
Schedule 4      Water Users' Associations to be           Prior to watercourse   In compliance.
A.6             established.                                   renovation
Punjab Project Agreement
Sec. 2.05       Punjab Gov. to implement the agreed           Unspecified       In compliance.
policy/incentives package.
Sec. 3.01(a)    Punjab to maintain separate project     Throughout project period In compliance.
accounts and records.
Sec. 3.01(b)(ii)   Furnish to IDA annual audit report.  Within nine months of end In compliance; although submission
of each fiscal year    always delayed.
Sec. 3.02       Punjab to recover 25% of cost of           Following existing   Partial compliance.
watercourse construction materials.          arrangements
WAPDA Project
Agreement
Sec. 2.06       WAPDA to recover electric connection cost     Unspecified       In compliance.
in excess of PRs 30,000 per tubewell.
Sec. 3.01(a)    WAPDA to maintain separate project      Throughout project period In compliance.
accounts and records.
Sec. 3.01(b)(ii)   Furnish to IDA annual audit report.  Within nine months of end In compliance; although submission
of each fiscal year    always delayed.
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        Planned            Revised            Actual
Through Appraisal                                               NA.                NA.               107.2
Appraisal through Board Approval                                NA.                NA.                15.9
Board Approval through Effectiveness                            NA.               NA.                 NA.
Supervision                                                     NA.                NA.                76.7
Total                                                           NAL                NA.               199.8
1 Including 8.3 staff weeks spent by FAO/CP staff for PCR preparation.



20
B. Missions
Stage of Project   Month/Year    No. of    Days In  Specialization Represented 1/   Perfonnrme        Type of
Cycle                            Persons     Field                                Rating Status 2/    Problem 3/
Identification       NA           NA         NA.                NA.                     -                -
Preparation 1       May 83          3         11             EC, AG, EN                 -
Preparation 2      Aug.83           1         17                 EC                     -                -
Preparation 3       Dec. 83         3         12             EC, AG, EN                 -
Preparation 4      March 84         1        NA                  EN                     -
Appraisal           June 85         5        NA.           AG, EN(3), LW                -
Supervision I       Nov. 86         2         5                EC, EN                   1
Supervision 2      April 87         2         9                EC, EN                   2         Mgt(2), Imp(2)
Supervision 3       Oct. 87         2         15               EC, EN                   2         Mgt(2), Imp(2)
Supervision 4      March 88         2         11               EC, EN                   2             Mgt(2)
Supervision 5       Jan. 89         2         12               EN(2)                    2             Mgt(2)
Supervision 6       Feb. 90         4         8               EN(3), EC                 2             Mgt(2)
Supervision 7       Oct. 91         1         9                  EN                     2         Mgt(2), Leg(2),
F(2)
1/ EC = Economist; AG - Agriculturist; EN = Engineer, LW = Lawyer.
2/ 1 = No significant problems; 2 = Moderate problems.
3/ Mgt(2) = Project management, moderate problems; Imp(2) - Project impact, moderate problems;
Leg(2) = Compliance with legal covenants, moderate problems; F(2) = Availability of funds, moderate problems.



PROJECT CCNPLETIO REPMRT
PAKISTAM: SCARP Transition Pilot Project
(Cr. 1693-PAK)
Annex Table 1: Nid-Term  Iqpct Evaluation Survey - Sumsary of Findigrs
Coqwarisan betwien BUandb srk Survy (1989) awd Hid-Ters Survey (1990)
Item                                                                           Project Area                                             Man-Project Area
1.  Land Use                                                               No significant change                                      No significant change
2. Cropped Area                                          3X decrease in paddy area but increase in kharif                   5X decrease in paddy but subsat tuted by
fodder (+2.2X), oilseeds (+1.6X) and wheat (+2.5X) 1/                       oilseeds and fodder
3.  Cropping Intensity                                                       5.8X increase 1/                                           7.6X increase 1/
4.  Fertilizer Use                                             Increased but less than non-project area 2/                                Increased
5.  Weedicide Use                                               Increased (more than non-project area) 1/                                  Increased 1/
6. Use of Pesticides                                                           Decreased 3/                                               Decreased 3/
7. Use of Irrigation Uater                                                                 (More water used in the non-project area)
-8.  Share of Private Tubewell Water                                                   (More increase in non-project area than project area)
9.  Use of Irrigation Water                                                   (191 decrease in project area due to termination of SCARP tubewelts)1/
10. Purchase of Private Tubewell Water                                                             (Decrease in project area) 5/
11. Groundsater Table                                                        Decreased by 1 ft
12. Effect of Gypsum Application                                                  Positive
13. Conjunctive Use of Tubewetl Water & Canal Water                             (Alternate use is better than blending, resulting in higher yield)
14. Average Crop Yields                                  Increas7 in paddy (5.11) but decrease in wheat                    Increase In paddy (16.6X) ?9d decrease in
(2.91)                                                                         wheat (0.5X)
15. Net Gross Farm Income                                                      Decreased 1/                                                Increased 1/
16. Farm Costs                                                                  31 increase                                                   N.A.
17. Net Cash Household Income                                                  3.31 decrease                                                  N.A.
1/ Reasons are not explained in consultant's report.
2/ Probably because non-project area pays less water charges than project area.
3/ Due to less pest attacks.
4/ Probably attributable to excess canal water supply.
S/ ecause of increased tubewell ownership in the project area.
Source: Nid-term Evaluation of SCARP Transition Pilot Project, PERI, 1991.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN: SCARP Transition Pilot Project
(Cr. 1693-PAR)
Annex Table 2: Project Costs
(PRa '000)
1986-87    1987-88    1988-89    1989-90    1990-91   1991-92    TOTAL
1. Private Tubewell Installation
Tubewell Type:
1 cusec electric w/o sump            52         128         108        501         258         81      1,128
0.5 cusec electric w/o sump          18          42          35        170          80         27        372
Subtotal                          70         170        143         671         338        108      1,500
1 cusec diesel w/o sump              23          45           1         37         279       215         600
Total Number                      93         215         144        708         617       323       2,100
Total Cost 1/                  1,787.5    4,114.5    2,670       13,200      12,269.5   6,620.5   40,662
2. Project Expenditure
Electrical distribution           3,444      10,153     90,024      31,866      24,556    23,197    183,240
Irrigation improvement            7,416      11,797       7,296      8,366       8,272      1,013     44,160
M & E                                 0           0       1,372      1,695       1,077      1,006      5,150
TA and training                       0         600       6,094      3,791       3,419      3,666     17,570
Project management                2,540       1,789       3,021      1,589       1,862        859     11,660
Total                         13,400     24,339    107,807       47,307      39,186    29,741    261,780
TOTAL PROJECT COST               15,187.5   28,453.5  110,477       60,507      51,455.5  36,361.5  302,442
Exchange rate (PRs/US$)           17.17       17.56       19.16      21.39       22.37      24.78
US$ equivalent ('000)               885       1,620       5,766      2,829       2,300      1,467     14,867
1/ Average unit cost is PRs 19,500 for 1 cusec electric, PRs 15,500 for 0.5 cusec electric, and
PRs 21,500 for I cusec diesel tubewells (see Annex Table 3).
Source: PCR mission and supervisory consultants.



23
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN: SCARP Transition Pilot Project
(Cr. 1693-PAR)
Annex Table 3: Estimated Unit Costs of Private Tubewell Installation 1/
(in PRs)
1.0 cusec Electric 1.0 cused Diesel 0.5 cusec Electric
(without sump)     (without sump)       (without sump)
Mobilization                 1,000               1,000               1,000
Drilling of Borehole,
Cost of Blind Pipe
and Cement Concrete
Strainer                    3,500               3,500               3,000
Delivery Pipe, Dis-
charge Box and
Shelter for Pump Set        3,500               3,500               3,000
Pump Set with Acces-
sories, Installation
Cost                       11,000              19,000 2/            8,000
Well Cleaning, Miscel-
laneous                       500                 500                 500
Total               19,500              27,500 2/           15,500
1/  Based on interviews with project farmers, information from supervisory
consultants and a local manufacturer of blind pipe and strainer, and
Benchmark Survey data.
2/  About 50Z of the farmers installing diesel tubewells have not bought
the 12 HP HSD engine as originally expected but use a tractor to
operate the pumps. Installation cost of diesel tubewells by such
farmers is reduced by about PRs 12,000 to about PRs 15,500.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN: SCARP Transition Pilot Project
(Cr. 1693-PAK)
Annex Table 4: Annual Exchange and Inflation Rates
Change              Change  International      Index      Domestic      Index
Fiscal Year   PRs/US$       %      PRs/SDR      %        Inflation    91-92=100   Inflation  91-92=100
1/                  1/                % p.a. 2/                  % p.a. 3/
1986-1987       17.17               21.30                   13.5          82.05         4.5       65.99
1987-1988       17.56       2.3     23.50      10.3          8.5          89.02         9.3       72.12
1988-1989       19.16       9.1     25.03       6.5          3.2          91.83         9.2       78.76
1989-1990       21.39      11.6     27.65      10.5          2.5          94.10         6.2       83.64
1990-1991       22.37       4.6     31.07      12.4          3.8          97.65        10.7       92.59
1991-1992       24.78      10.8     34.07       9.7          2.4         100.00         8.0      100.00
1/ IMF, period average.
2/ MUV Index [EMlAG Memo, December 17, 1991].
3/ GDP deflator [EM1AG Memo, December 17, 1991].



25
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN: SCARP Transition Pilot Project
(Cr. 1693-PAK)
Annex Table 5: Financial and Economic Prices
(Constant 1991-92 Rupees)
FINANCIAL ------------ ECONOMIC ------------
Unit     1991-92  1987-88  1991-92  1997-98  2005-06
OUTPUTS
Basmati Rice (paddy)       t         3,750    5,900    5,600    5,700    5,800
Other Rice (paddy)          t        1,910    3,218    3.090    2,830    2,540
Wheat                       t        2,800    4,887    4,730    6,090    5.520
Sugarcane                  t           425       263       330      560       600
Fodder (Kharif)            t           300       112       270      270       270
Fodder (Rabi)              t           230       169       210      210       210
Oilseeds (Kharif)           t        5,315    5,170    6,000    6,000    6,000
Oilseeds (Rabi)             t        5,713    4,810    6,120    6,120    6,120
Pulses                     t        11,520    7,390    9,910    9,910    9,910
Vegetables (Kharif)        t         3,432    2,560    2,800    2,800    2,800
Vegetables (Rabi)          t         3,770    2,820    3,000    3,000    3,000
Orchards                    t        2,000    2,168    1,800    1,800    1,800
SEEDS
Basmati Rice (paddy)      kg          5.25      4.52     4.52      4.52      4.52
Other Rice (paddy)        kg          3.15      3.87      3.86     3.54      3.18
Wheat                      kg             3     3.75      5.57     7.18      6.51
Sugarcane (cuttings)      kg          0.44      0.35      0.33     0.56      0.60
Fodder (Kharif)           kg          2.55      3.79      2.30     2.30      2.30
Fodder (Rabi)             kg         24        14.88    21.60    21.60    21.60
Oilseeds                  kg          6.08      5.47      5.47     5.47      5.47
Pulses                    kg          7.58      5.77      6.88     6.88      6.88
Vegetables                kg          4         2.98      3.50     3.50      3.50
OTHER INPUTS
Fertilizer:
Nitrogen           kg Nutrient      8       11.96    12.89    13.12    12.25
Phosphates         kg Nutrient    10        10.9      9.39    10.65    10.48
Potassium          kg Nutrient      4.3      4.72     6.66      6.83      6.86
Tractor                   Hour        63.27   66.6       66.6     66.6      66.6
Bullock (pair)            Day         45       40.5      40.5     40.5      40.5
LABOR
Unskilled Labor         Workday       35       26.25    26.25    26.25    26.25
Note:
Mission estimates based on Bank estimates in:
(i) Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia SAR, January 15, 1992;
(ii) Second SCARP Transition SAR, May 9, 1991;
(iii) SCARP Transition Pilot Implementation Volume, June 12, 1986.
(iv) Government's draft PCR on OFWM-II, February 1992.



26
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN: SCARP Transition PiLot Project
(Cr. 1693-PAK)
Annex Table 6: AgricuLtural Production Assumptions
Cropped Area              Yields 1/ 2/   j        Production
Crops          1     (1000 acres)       P        tt/acre)                ('000 t)
Present Future Future  Present Future Future  Present Future  Future
W/O                             W   I             /       W w
IRICE (Basmati)     22.0    24.5   28.1       1.0     1.0    1.2 122.00   24.50   33.72
RICE (IRRI)          9.4    10.5   12.0      1.2      1.4    1.7 | 11.28   14.70   20.40
WHEAT               58.7    59.7   66.6 ,  0.9        1.0    1.2 , 52.83   59.70   79.92
'SUGARCANE        '  3.9      4.8    6.2 ' 14.1    17.8   19.7 ' 54.99   85.44  122.14
IKH. FODDER       ' 10.3      9.6   10.8    12.9    15.9   18.1  132.87  152.64  195.48
IRA. FODDER       ' 22.4    20.6   20.1    15.7    18.0   22.0 '351.68  370.80  442.20
KH. OILSEEDS    '  0.1        2.5    6.2 '  0.5       0.6    0.6 ' 0.07    1.50    3.72
IRA. OILSEEDS         1.7     2.2    3.1 '  0.4       0.4    0.5 ' 0.68    0.88    1.55
IPULSES           '  1.5      2.2    3.1 '  0.4       0.5    0.5 ' 0.60    1.10    1.55
IKH. VEGETABLES  1   1.3      2.4    4.6      3.2     3.9    4.9 ' 4.16    9.36   22.54
IRA. VEGETABLES  1  2.0       2.7    4.6      3.3     4.0    5.4    6.60   10.80   24.84
IORCHARDS            0.9      2.4    4-6      3.9     4.8    5.8 ! 3.51   11.52   26.68
TotaL              134     144    170
Notes:
1/ Inexpticable discrepancies in yield figures were found between Table 1, Annex 23
and Table 6.1, page 30 of the Implementation Volume. The latter were adopted here.
2/ Full development would be reached after ten years or about 1997.



PROJECT COMPLET ION REPORT
PAKISTAN:  SCARP Transition Pilot Project
(Cr. 1693-PAK)
Amex Table 7:  Costs of Production - per Acre Iriput Use AssLaqptions
Seed       JNFertiLizers   P FertiLizers  IK Fer-tilizers            BuLLock    TTractor Work           Pesticides          Labor)      1Water Chre             Oher Charges
Crops                (kg)         (k uret)   (kg niutrient)   (kg nvutrient)              (pair-day)       P(hour              (e)(r)                 )              CRs)                 (Rs)
'RICE (Basuti)        5     5    5    25   30   36    16   20   23         4.    5    6      8    8    8   1.0  1.4  1.9    36  120  180   200  200   212   78.0 268.1  39.0   89.0 149.9 182.8
IRICE (IRRI)          6    6    6    27   35   46    16   23   27           -    -           8    8    8 I i0  1.5  2.0    27   90  150   264  264   288   78.0 2998  39.0   63.4 117.0 136.5   ~
WHEAT                40   40   401  23   30   371   11   16   20'   -    -    -              5    5    512:0  3:0  401    -    -    .1112  112   116  53.6 285.2  26.8  58.5  73.1  82.9                       _
'SUGACANE         11600 2000 2400    32   48   57    16   23   32          6   18   1212 12            1412.0  3.0  4.0    40  160  2401368  368   384  158.4 341.2  79.2  120.6229.1 253.5
KM. F0ODER           15   15   15       9    9   15       4    4    71    -                  4    4     4 I1.0  1.5  2:0 I -    -                96  104   1171 34.1 274.2  17:1   5 4.8  67.0  78.0
'RA  FWODER           6    6    6       3    5    6       5    8   10       -                5    5    5 I j0  1.0  1.5 I -           -     -   197  205   211   26:8 270:6  13.4 I99.9 115.7 141.3
K.OILSEEDS       2.5  2.5  2.5    34   34   34 I23   23   23             -    -4    4~  4   1.0  1.0  1.0 I --    48   56    56   34.1 274.2  17.1 '                                     -      -     -
'RA.OILSEEDS          4    4    4~  18   18   23'   9    9   181    -                        4     4    4  110   1.0  1:0'                  . 96    96   104   26.8270.5  13.4                    .      -
PULSES14141414                          7  717141141.                             .4 4400.8 0.8                                  -  -48 56   56 34.1 27421711    - 
IK.VEGETABLES    1.3  2.4  4 6    32   46   70    23   32   46           4    11   18      8    8    8   1.0  2.0  2.5    45  150  240   160  176   18    39021. 95358.3 441.1 538.6
IRA. VEGETABLES  ' 2  2.7  4'6    32   46   70 123   32   46                4   11   18    88    8    8   1.0  2. 0  2.5    45  150  240   160  176   184   39.0 2T779  19    353441.1 538.6
IORCHARDS              -          .1-  23   32   46'  18   23   321    4   18   231    8    8     8110  2.0 3.0'   45  150  240  288  304   3201204.7482.6102.4 1329.0404.6 494.8
Notes:
P = Present; W/O = Future without project; W  Future with project.
Prices are in constant 1991-92 Rup~ees.



28
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN: SCARP Transition Pilot Project
(Cr. 1693-PAK)
Annex Table 8: Without Project Cost Stream
(Constant 1991-92 Rs Million)
Replacement          Power Supply                    0 & M
YEAR            SCARP TWs             Improvements         SCARP TWs        Canals          TOTAL COST
1986-87                 0                      0              28,404         7.122              35,527
1987-88             7,626                 40,211              25,990         6,656              80,483
1988-89             6,983                      0              25,692         6,221              38,897
1989-90             9,864                      0              26,230         5,978              42,072
1990-91             8,910                      0              25,305         5,508              39,724
1991-92             8.250                      0              25,560         5,200              39,010
1992-93                 0                      0              25,560         5,200              30,760
1993-94                 0                      0              25,560         5,200              30,760
1994-95                 0                      0              25,560         5,200              30,760
1995-96                 0                      0              25,560         5,200              30,760
1996-97                 0                      0              25,560         5,200              30,760
1997-98                 0                      0              25,560         5,200              30,760
1998-99                 0                      0              25,560         5,200              30,760
1999-00                 0                      0              25,560         5,200              30,760
2000-01                 0                      0              25,560         5,200              30,760
2001-02                 0                      0              25,560         5,200              30,760
2002-03                 0                      0              25,560         5,200              30,760
2003-04                 0                      0              25,560         5,200              30,760
2004-05                 0                      0              25,560         5,200              30,760
2005-06                 0                      0              25,560         5,200              30,760
Note:
SCARP tubewell costs are assumed unchanged since implementation. They have thus only been adjusted
for inflation and converted to 1991-92 rupees.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAII: SCARP Transition Pilot Project
(Cr. 1693-PAK)
Annex Table 9: With Project Cost Stream
1986-87  1987-88  1988-89  1989-90  1990-91  1991-92  1992-93  1993-94  1994-95   1995-96  1996-97  1997-98  1998-99  1999-00  2000-01  2001-02  2002-03  2003-04  2004/06
1. Cost Strem in Current Rs Million
Electrification              3.444   10,153   90,024   31,866   24.556   23,197    5.497    5.497    5.497         5.497    5,497    5,497    5,497    5.497    5,497    5,497    5,497    5,497    5,497
Irrigation Improvement       7,416   11,797    7,296    8.366    8,212    1,013    1,325    1,325    1.325         1,325    1,325    1,325    1,325    1,325    1,325    1.325    1.325    1.325    1.325
Monitoring & Evaluation          0         0    1.372    1.695    1,077    1,006    1.006    1,006    1.006        1.006    1,006    1,006    1.006    1,006    1,006    1,006    1.006    1,006    1.006
TA and Training                  0       600    6.094    3.791    3.419    3.666         0         0        0          0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0
Project Management           2,540    1,789    3.021    1.589    1,862        859        0         0        0          0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0
Project Expenditures        13.400   24.339  107.807   47,307   39.186   29,741    7,828    7.828    7,828         7.828    7.828    7,828    7,828    7,828    7,828    7.828    7.828    7,828    7,828
Private Tubewells:
Investment Cost              1.787    4.114    2,670   13.200   12,269    6.620          0         0        0          0    1,787    4.114    2.670   13,200   12.269    6,620          0         0        0
0 & N Cost                       0        54      177      257       653    1,021    1.220    1,220    1,220       1,220    1.220    1.220    1,220    1,220    1,220    1,220    1.220    1.220    1,220   0
TOTAL PROJECT COST          15.187   28,507  110,654   60.764   52,108   37,382    9,048    9.048    9,048         9,048   10,835   13,162   11,718   22,248   21,317   15,668    9.048    9,048    9,048
11. Cost Stream in Constant 1991-92 Rs Million
Local Costs:
In Current Rs                7,027   11,786   31.448   25.472   22,998   15,200    3,349    3.349        3,349    3.349    4.689    6,435    5,352   13,249   12.551    8.314    3.349    3.349    3.349
Local Inflation Index        65.99    72.12    78.76    83.64    92.59   100.00   106.00   112.36    119.10   126.25   133.82   141.85   150.36   159.38   168.95   168.95   168.95   168.95   168.95
In Constant Rs              10,649   16.343   39.929   30,455   24,839   15.200    3.159    2.981        2.812    2.653    3,504    4.536    3,559    8.313    7.429    4,921    1,982    1,982    1,982
Economic Costs (SCF-0.86)   9.158   14.055   34,339   26,191   21,361   13,072    2,717    2.563          2,418    2,281    3,014    3.901    3,061    7,149    6,389    4,232    1.705    1.705    1.705
Foreign Costs:
In Current Rs                8.160   16,720   79,206   35,292   29,110   22,182    5,699    5,699        5.699    5.699    6,146    6,727    6,366    8,999    8,766    7,354    5,699    5,699    5.699
MUV Index                    82.05    89.02    91.83    94.10    97.65   100.00   103.36   107.39    111.52   115.76   120.16   124.73   129.46   134.38   139.45   144.68   150.11   155.74   161.58
Economic Costs               9,945   18,783   86.253   37.504   29,811   22,182    5,514    5.307        5,110    4.923    5,114    5,393    4.918    6,697    6,286    5,083    3.796    3,659    3,527
TOTAL PROJECT COST          19.103   32,837  120,592   63.696   51,172   35,254    8,231    7.870        7,528    7.204    8,128    9.295    7,978   13.846   12.675    9.315    5,SOI    5.364    5,232
(Economic)
Note:  OSH costs for Electrification, Irrigation Improvement, and Private Tubewells are set at 3X of capital cost.



30
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN: SCARP Transition Pilot Project
(Cr. 1693-PAK)
Annex Table 10: Project Cost and Benefit Streams
(Constant 1991-92 Rs Million)
Incremental      Incremental   Net Incremental
Year                        Benefits            Costs            Benefits
1986-87                         (13,928)         (16,424)            2,496
1987-88                         (28,579)         (47,645)           19,066
1988-89                         (38,061)          81,695          (119,756)
1989-90                         (44,908)          21,624           (66,532)
1990-91                         (48,593)           11,448          (60,041)
1991-92                          (9,945)           (3,756)          (6,189)
1992-93                          33,534          (22,529)           56,063
1993-94                          67,598          (22,890)           90,488
1994-95                         101,661          (23,232)          124,893
1995-96                         135,725          (23,556)          159,281
1996-97                         169,787          (22,632)          192,419
1997-98                         203,850          (21,465)          225,315
1998-99                         203,850          (22,782)          226,632
1999-00                         203,850          (16,914)          220,764
2000-01                         203,850           (18,085)         221,935
2001-02                         203,850           (21,445)         225,295
2002-03                         203,850           (25,259)         229,109
2003-04                         203,850           (25,396)         229,246
2004-05                         203,850           (25,528)         229,378
2005-06                         203,850           (25,528)         229,378
Economic Rate of Return:  32%



