Documet f
The World Bank
IFO  OMCIAL USE ONLY
C'. /6 23-tS'/<
Report No. P-4273-PAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 8.7 MILLION
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
SCARP TRANSITION PILOT PROJECT
April 15, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EgUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1.00         = Rs.16.0
Rs 1.00         = US$0.0625
FISCAL YEAR
July 1   -  June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADBP    -       Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
DI      -       Department of Irrigation
FGW     -       Fresh Groundwater
M&E     -       Monitoring and Evaluation
1OU     -       Memorandum of Understanding
O&M     -       Operation and Maintenance
OFWM    -       On-Farm Water Management
PACC    -       Project Area Coordinating Committee
PMO     -       Project Management Office
PPC     -       Provincial Policy Committee
RAP     -       Revised Action Program
SCARP   -       Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
SGW     -       Saline Groundwater
T&V     -       Training and Visit (Extension Program)
TW      -       Tubevell
WAPDA   -       Water and Power Development Authority
WUA     -       Water Users Association



FOR OMCAuL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
SCARP Transition Pilot Proiect
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:       Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiarv:    Government of Punjab
Amount:          SDR 8.7 million (US$10 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard
RelendinR       From the Government of Pakistan to the Government of Punjab and
Terms:         WAPDA through budgetary allocations in accordance with normal
procedures.
Proiect         The project would be the pilot phase of a proposed SCARP
Description:   (salinity control and reclamation project) transition
program to privatize groundwater development in SCARP areas
having adequate quality fresh groundwater. The pilot phase
would cover 114,000 acres with 213 public tubewells. If
proven feasible in the pilot phase, the program would be
expanded to cover up to 4 million acres, and involve 7,500
public tubewells. Project objectives are to develop a
replicable package of technical and institutional components
for: (a) implementing Government policy of transferring the
main responsibility for groundwater pumpage in SCARP areas
uuderlain by fresh groundwater in order to meet effectively
both irrigation and drainage requirements; (b) confirming
that farmers, particularly small holders, would be willing
and able to participate in the privatization of groundwater
development; and (c) increasing agricultural production and
farm incomes through improved use of surface and groundwater
supplies, which are used conjunctively by farmers. The main
risk to the project would be inadequate implementation of the
Government's policy to phase out public tubewell pumpage and
to provide farmers with essential infrastructural and sup-
porting facilities for privatization. To minimize this risk,
the policy package was approved by GOPunjab well ahead of
planned project start-up; a tubevell-to-tubewell survey has
been initiated; and implementation arrangements provide for
an integrated, coordinated and flexible approach by the
participating agencies.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Costs: 1 
Local Foreign   Total
--  US$ million --
Electricity Distribution System                           4.0     4.9     8.9
Private Tubevells                                         3.5     1.2     4.7
Irrigation and Drainage Improvements                      1.5     0.4     1.9
monitoring & Evaluation                                   0.5     0.4     0.9
Technical Assistance & Training                           0.7     0.2     0.9
Project Management                                        0.5     0.2     0.7
Base Cost                   10.7     7.3    18.0
Physical Contingencies                                    0.9     0.8     1.7
Price Contingencies                                       1.2     0.9     2.1
Total Project Cost          12.8     9.0    21.8
Financing Plan:
Local ForeiRn  Total
US$ million --
Government                                               6.2      0.4     6.6
Farmers/ADBP                                              3.9     1.3     5.2
IDA                                                       2.8     7.2   10.0
12.9     8.9    21.8
Estimated Disbursements:
FY87   FY88    FY89    FY90  FY91
Annual                                      2.6     4.1      2.1    0.9    0.3
Cumulative                                  2.6     6.7      8.8    9.7   10.0
Economic Rate
of Return:    23%
Appraisal
Report:        None
MaPs:           IBRD #19247-19249, 19349
.J Includes about US$2.9 million in taxes and duties



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A SCARP TRANSITION PILOT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit
to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for SDR 8.7 million (US$10.0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a SCARP Transition Pilot
Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The most recent economic report, "Pakistan:  Economic and Social
Development Prospects" (No. 5962-PAK, dated February 18, 1986), was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on March 3, 1986.
3.      Economic growth rebounded strongly in FY85 after the slowdown in the
previous year. Assisted by a strong recovery in the agricultural sector,
reaL CDP increased by 8.4%, compared to 3.5% in FY84. Value added in agricul-
ture grew by 9.9% and in manufacturing by 8.6%. Both fixed investment and
private investment rose by about 12%. Improved availability of agricultural
commodities helped to reduce the rate of inflation to 7.5% from 8.4Z in FY84.
On the other hand, the budget deteriorated markedly, national savings
decreased, and the balance of payments came under pressure. Government
current revenues fell short of the budgeted amount while expenditures sub-
stantially exceeded the budgeted amounts. As a result, government borrowing
from the domestic banking system increased from 1.9% of GDP in FY84 to 3.9%
of GDP. Reflecting largely the sharp drop in public savings, national
savings fell from 12.8% to 11.2% of GNP.  Although the immediate growth
prospects are good, budgetary and balance of payments developments will need
to be carefully watched.
4.      The balance of payments deteriorated in FY85.  The current account
deficit stood at US$1.6 billion, compared to US$1 billion in FY84. Lower
exports and remittances were the main contributing factors. Exports declined
by 7.3% as the country's major exports, cotton and rice, suffered the effects
of lower prices and lower volumes, respectively. Furthermore, remittances
declined for the second successive year, falling by 10.6% in FY85. According
to recent projections, net migration is expected to decline and thus remit-
tances will be lower over the medium term. As a result of the higher current
deficit and low net capital flows, the reserve drawdown reached US$960
million. Gross official gold and foreign exchange reserves were US$1.2
billion at the end of FY85, which was equivalent to 2 months of imports of
goods and services.



-2-
5.      The process of gradually eliminating interest rates from the economy,
initiated in 1980, was completed in July 1985. All transactions are now
based on new financing modes consistent with Islamic principles. Existing
interest-based commitments have been honored and transactions with foreign
governments and financial institutions are not affected. It is too early to
determine with any certainty the potential costs of Islamization.
Undoubtedly, the operation of the new system will initially involve some
costs, but whether long-run efficiency will be affected will depend on how
the system is applied. To date, the Government has proceeded cautiously,
and new financing modes have been applied flexibly and developments monitored
closely.
6.      The strong recovery in GDP growth in FY85 meant that the overall
growth ratio achieved in the first two years of the Sixth Plan was consistent
with the improved performance achieved during the Fifth Plan period
(FY79-83). Growth in national output (6.5%), agriculture (4.2%), manufactur-
ing (10.4%), exports (11%), and private investment (6.7%), though below Sixth
Plan targets, was well above the rates achieved during FY70-78 and very
respectable compared with the growth rates of other developing countries.
Growth during this period--coupled with increased remittances--benefited
large segments of the population. Performance improved despite a number of
adverse factors: (a) a world recession; (b) a 302 decline in the external
terms of trade after 1979; and (c) the Afghanistan crisis with its attendant
expenditures for increased defense and refugee assistance.
7.      Fiscal performance and the balance of payments improved significantly
during the Fifth Plan. The overall budget deficit and Government bank
borrowing, which in FY79 stood at 8.8% and 4.3% of GDP respfctively, fell to
6.4% and 1.7% by FY83. As the levels of Government borrowing from banks
dropped and overall credit expansion was restrained, the growth of the money
supply slowed down and inflationary pressures lessened; inflation dropped
from 8% to 5% by the end of the Plan period. The improved fiscal performance
was largely the result of expenditure restraint rather than better revenue
performance. Real expansion in current expenditures on economic and social
services barely kept pace with population growth, and development expendi-
tures declined relative to GDP. Government revenues remained constant at 16%
of GDP, and public savings, having risen in the first half of the Plan period
from 1% to 3.8% of GNP, dropped to 1.6% by FY83. Assisted by remittances,
but also strong export growth, the current account deficit fell from 5% of
GNP to 2% by the end of the Plan Period. Gross reserves increased from 3.5
to 4.5 months of imports of goods and services.
8.      In addition to improving economic management through fiscal and
monetary policies, the Government took measures to improve performance in
the commodity-producing sectors. In agriculture, all major crops reached
record output levels, with wheat and sugar achieving self-sufficiency.
Subsidies on pesticides were virtually eliminated, while fertilizer prices
were raised to reduce the subsidy burden. Crop procurement prices were
adjusted to bring them closer to world prices. Provincial allocations for
operations and maintenance in irrigation were increased, along with water
charges. Encouraged by improved policies and incentives, private manufactur-
ing investment grew by 10.9% per annum. Areas open to the private sector
were widened, most agricultural processing units were denationalized, and
sanctioning Limits increased. A flexible exchange rate policy adopted in
1982 was instrumentaL in stimulating manufactured exports, while import
liberalization increased the availability of raw materials and capital goods.



-3-
In energy, measures were taken to accelerate the development of domestic
resources, rationalize prices, and improve policy formulation and energy
planning capabilities.
9.      The developments in Pakistan's economy since FY78 represent welcome
steps toward the solution of problems that are essentially structural and
long-term in nature. Nevertheless, further wide-ranging measures must be
introduced to address structural issues. Pakistan's long-term growth
prospects depend on the resolution of two such issues: (a) the need to
increase the level and efficiency of public investment; and (b) the need to
encourage export expansion and efficient import substitution. If Pakistan
is to sustain high economic growth, it must make major infrastructure
investments, upgrade existing facilities, and strengthen its neglected social
base. The last has fared badly as a result of resource constraints, as is
reflected in Pakistan's social indicators, which lag seriously behind those
of other developing countries at comparable levels of development. It will
not be possible to increase public investment and recurrent allocations
without a major domestic resource mobilization effort. Although Pakistan
should give priority to reforming indirect taxation through a broad-based
sales tax, it should also rely more on user charges, should curtail
subsidies, and increase self-financing by public enterprises. Given the
continuing constrained outlook for official assistance and the likelihood of
lower remittance flows, sustained improvements in bothl export expansion and
efficient import substitution will be necessary to support high growth with
sustainable external capital requirements. If trade performance is to be
improved, structural adjustment must be continued and strengthened in the key
sectors of agriculture, industry, and energy. Both agriculture and industry
have considerable potential for increased exports and some degree of effi-
cient import substitution. In energy, the accelerated development of
Pakistan's under-exploited resources can contribute considerably to the
reduction of energy imports.
10.     In agriculture, high growth has been largely the result of increased
acreage; yet average yields remain low by world standards and by those of
progressive farmers within Pakistan. Before agricultural productivity and
diversification can be increased, institutional support must be strengthened,
appropriate pricing policies must be put in place, and the core investment
program identified and implemented. More effective institutional support
should be sought through improvements in the quality and quantity of services
to farmers. In particular, strengthening the seed program requires more
efficient seed multiplication and dissemination, increased efficiency in
public sector plants, and a greater role for the private sector. The
delivery of agricultural credit also needs to be improved to ensure that it
actually reaches small farmers and tenants, whose credit needs are greatest.
Furthermore, marketing costs need to be reduced and research and extension
services strengthened. Agricultural pricing policies should create
appropriate incentives to farmers, while minimizing subsidies. Multicrop
approaches to pricing should complement the single-crop, cost-of-production
approach currently used. Finally, a core investment program in agriculture
and water is needed to reduce the possibility of distortions in investment
priorities. Low cost programs that yield quick returns should be emphasized
along with critical infrastructure investments that raise farm productivity.
Greater emphasis on the complementarity of investment programs, especially
between agriculture and water, would ensure that priority is accorded to
programs that increase agricultural productivity rather than merely augment
the supply of physical infrastructure.



-4-
11.     Despite fairly rapid industrial growth accompanied at times by rapid
expansion of manufactured expcrts in recent years, there are a number of
issues the Government must address if this performance is to be sustained.
High levels of protection have led to high cost, low quality domestic produc-
tion both by raising input prices and by reducing the demand for new technol-
ogy to raise productivity and improve product quality. If Pakistan is to
increase and diversify its manufactured export base and encourage efficient
import substitution, industrial incentives must be rationalized to reduce
both the level and dispersion of effective protection rates. The objective
here is to increase the efficiency of the industrial sector by exposing
protected producers to greater foreign competition and to reduce the anti-
export bias inherent in the present incentives. In addition, the Government
shoula reform the regulations affecting investment sanctioning and cost-plus
pricing in order to improve competition among domestic firms. It should
limit sanctioning to a few cases of strategic importance, leaving most
investment decisions to the private sector, which is better able to assess
investment opportunities. Cost-plus pricing arrangements with a number of
key private and public manufacturing enterprises, which provide insufficient
incentives to minimize costs or allocate capital efficiently, should be
replaced by market-oriented approaches, which better reflect supply/demand
conditions and provide adequate incentives for reinvestment and operational
efficiency.
12.     Issues that needed to be addressed in the energy sector pertain to
three broad &reas: (a) investment and development; (b) pricing; (c) institu-
tional strengthening. In the power subsector, the Government has formulated
least-cost development plan for the period 1986-2005 and has outlined a core
investment program of Rs 30 billion consisting of high priority projects to
be implemented during FY86 to FY88. Given the likelihood of domestic
resource constraints and persistent power shortages, the Government is also
undertaking a number of measures including tariff increases to ensure that a
large portion of this investment program would be financed from WAPDA's
self-generated resources. The gas producer pricing formula for new dis-
coveries has been adjusted to provide adequate incentives to attract private
sector exploration. Because consumer gas prices were kept artificially low
to encourage the substitution of gas for imported oil, relative prices became
distorted and the use of gas uneconomic. Since 1982, the Government policy
has been to progressi'!aly increase consumer prices of gas in order to reach
two-thirds of fuel oil parity by 1988; the FY86 budget increased the average
gas price by over 50%. Assisted by domestic price increases and lower inter-
national prices for fuel oil, the Government's target has been realized. The
Government should continue the policy of gradually adjusting gas prices with
a view to reaching full parity as early as possible. Electricity tariffs,
which are currently below the long-run marginal cost, should be adjusted to
reflect this cost, not only to ensure the efficient use of electricity and
encourage energy conservation, but also to mobilize the substantial addi-
tional funds required by the power investment program. Finally, the
Government should consider increasing the autonomy of public enterprises in
the energy sector to improve their efficiency and should continue to
strengthen energy planning and policy coordination.
13.     The Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY83-88) articulates a pragmatic strategy
for Pakistan's continued rapid development that includes an expanded role
for the private sector, increased public development expenditures, and
increased allocations for energy, agriculture, irrigation, and the social



sectors. Although the size and composition of the Plan are appropriate,
development expenditures during the first two years of the Plan have been
8.5Z lower than the amounts projected because of insufficient domestic
resources. Although this would not appear overly large, the way in which
sectoral shortfalls have been distributed contradicts Plan priorities.
Education, energy, health, and agriculture have received considerably lower
allocations than called for in the Plan. Furthermore, without a predefined
core investment program, there is a tendency to distribute shortfalls evenly
over a large number of projects within a sector; thus too many projects have
been initiated, and projects that should receive priority are underfunded.
To address this issue, the Government has re-introduced a Three-Year Priority
Investment Program (FY86-88). The Government has emphasized that the adop-
tion of a rolling medium-term program does not mean that plan strategies and
priorities are being revised, or that shortfalls are considered inevitable.
The program will merely identify sectoral core investment programs to be
given priority in annual plans. If priority investments, especially in key
areas, could be protected, the public investment program would become more
effective and its priorities would be sharpened.
14.     The improved performance and policy framework of the Fifth Plan,
which the Government intends to continue during the Sixth Plan, have improved
Pakistan's creditworthiness for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing and commer-
cial borrowing. At the end of 1984, Pakistan's external public debt (exclud-
ing the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$9.9 billion, of which US$4.6 bil-
lion was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan consortium, US$1.2 billion
to OPEC, US$2.3 billion to multilateral agencies, and the balance to other
bilateral and private lenders. At the same time, the Bank Group's share in
Pakistan's external public indebtedness was 16.2%, and in external debt
service it was 8.0X. According to Bank projections, if recent policy
improvements are sustained and structural issues addressed, Pakistan's debt
service will remain about 20% during the remainder of the 1980s, even with
somewhat higher levels of commercial borrowing.
PART II - THE BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
15.    As of September 30, 1985, the cumulative total of Bank/IDA commit-
ments to Pakistan (exclusive of Loans and Credits or portions thereof that
were disbursed in the former East Pakistan) amounted to approximately US$3.7
billion, and IFC's investments totalled $193.5 million. (Annex II contains a
summary Statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments.)
16.     During its long association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been
involved in most sectors of the economy. For example, it has participated
with other donors, over a 20-year period, in a major program of works to
develop the water resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 30% of total
Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan have been for agriculture and irrigation;
28% for industry, including import program credits; 18% for transport,
telecommunications, and public utility services; 14% for energy, including
power, gas pipelines, and petroleum; 5% for social programs in education,
population, and urban development; and 52 for structural adjustment lending
and technical assistance.
17.     Currently, the Bank's assistance strategy is to support the
Government of Pakistan's efforts to formulate and implement policy reforms



-6-
in three sectors--energy, industry, and agriculture--which shape the struc-
tural adjustment of the economy. To ensure that the gains from adjustment
are sustained in the long term and shared more broadly, the strategy also
includes investments in physical infrastructure and the social sectors
(education, population, etc.) that have been neglected in Pakistan's develop-
ment efforts. If this strategy is to succeed, the full range of traditional
instruments of Bank support must be flexibly deployed--from sector work and
active policy dialogue, to policy- and project-based lending, technical
assistance and aid coordination. The Bank Group's lending program comprises
two components, the larger of which supports specific high-priority invest-
ments in productive sectors and physical and social infrastructure. The
smaller but nonetheless strategic component focuses on policy reforms in the
key sectors of agriculture, industry, and energy and relies heavily on high-
quality economic and sector work. The program includes a series of technical
assistance credits to finance studies and formulate action programs for
policy reform. The experience with the first of these has been extremely
positive. In addition, through its annual Country Economic Memorandum, the
Bank Group tries to foster greater understanding on the part of Consortium
members of the Government's structural adjustment program and aid
requirements. This effort, coupled with increased cofinancing, should
enhance the policy relevance and effectiveness of other official aid and help
attract additional resources to Pakistan from nonconcessional sources.
18.     Historically, the Bank Group has placed special emphasis on lending
for agriculture, which is the mainstay of Pakistan's economy. The Bank and
the Government have agreed that the main objective of the agricultural
strategy and, consequently, lending to the sector should be to increase
agricultural productivity through improvements in the efficiency of the
irrigation system and supporting agricultural services. Among the issues
being addressed are: the balance between short-gestation projects and
projects with a longer-term focus, rationalization of input and output
prices, marketing, improvements in operation and maintenance, cost recovery,
and a wider role for the private sector. Projects in the sector have ranged
from irrigation/drainage to agricultural inputs, research, and extension and
have included institution-building components. Overall, progress in agricul-
ture has been satisfactory.
19.     In industry, the strategy has two complementary aspects:  to
strengthen and broaden the structural adjustment in Pakistan's industrial
sector and to support the Government's efforts to revitalize the private
sector through industrial financing. The industrial reform program has been
designed to improve the competitiveness of the sector with a view to promot-
ing export expansion and import substitution. Issues being addressed
include trade and industrial incentives, deregulation, efficiency of public
enterprises, pricing decontrol, and improvements in the credit delivery
system. Lines of credit extended to development finance institutions and
other financial intermediaries hAave been mainly for the private sector.
Direct lending for industry has also included assistance to three large
fertilizer plants and a refinery engineering loan. IFC's investments in 16
Pakistan enterprises were by way of loans (US$182 million) and equity par-
ticipation (US$11.3 million); these are shown in Annex II. Although
individual operations have generally achieved their objectives, the agenda
for overall industrial reform remains formidable.
20.     As a result of the progress under the Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL) in 1981/82 and the Energy Sector Loan in 1985, our Lending program in



-7-
energy is expanding rapidly. The overalL objective here is to expand the
domestic supply from all energy subsectors and simultaneously increase the
efficiency of energy use through appropriate pricing, conservation, and other
methods of managing demand. No less central have been the efforts to
strengthen key institutions in the sector. In power, the Bank has helped
both the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation and the Water and Power
Development Authority to finance their power generation and transmission
programs. The construction of the Mangla and Tarbela dams under the Indus
Basin Development Program, in which the Bank played a leadership role, has
also assisted in .'chieving the objectives of the sector strategy. In oil
and gas, the Bank has financed a sound exploration and development program
and has assisted in developing the extensive gas transmission system.
Smaller efforts, involving mainly engineering studies and technical
assistance, have been undertaken to support coal exploration, energy audits,
and oil refining. Despite much progress, however, the Bank will need to
continue participating in institution building and help the Government mobi-
lize adequate funds for energy investments through tariffs, co-financing, and
greater private sector participation.
21.     Bank Group lending for transport and communications has focused both
on new capital investments and on improving the efficiency of existing
assets. Efforts have also been made to strengthen the institutions respon-
sible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust, Pakistan
Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department and federal and provincial
highway agencies. However, inadequate transport infrastructure is now con-
sidered to be critical constraint to overall growth, in large measure because
infrastructure stock has run down. Thus, the balance between new investments
and the efficient operation and maintenance of existing investments needs
greater attention.
22.     With an overall literacy rate of only 24%, a population growth rate
of about 3.1%, and rapid urbanization, Pakistan faces an equally formidable
development agenda in the social sector. The Bank has supported the
Government's programs in education through five credits designed to upgrade
primary, post-secondary, and higher technical and agricultural education as
well as middle-level training of primary teachers and agricultural extension
agents. The focus has been and will continue to be on the lower end of the
education spectrum (primary, technical, and nonformal education). A first
population project designed to expand the demand for population control
services was approved in FY83. Furthermore, the Bank has financed four
projects in the urban and water supply sector. Besides providing urban
services, these operations are designed to improve local resource mobi-
lization and cost recovery; planning and efficiency of resource utilization;
and urban management, especially at the provincial and municipal levels.
23.     In addition to the above, policy-based lending was pursued through
the SAL and an Energy Sector Loan mentioned in para. 20. The SAL program
introduced a number of significant reforms in government development planning
and in policies and programs in the agriculture, energy, and industrial
sectors; by the time the loan was fully disbursed at the end of FY83, sig-
nificant progress had been achieved in the above areas. The ESL supports the
Government reform program for the energy sector and assists in the implemen-
tation of a core investment program for the sector. Continuing support for
the structural adjustment process is envisioned under other sector loans in
the next few years.



-8-
24.     In general, disbursements have been satisfactory.  Some projects have
experienced initial delays owing to protracted government procedures for
project approval (but these problems are now being addressed), and the
procurement of goods and services. Rapid turnover of managerial and techni-
cal staff, partly due to migration to the Middle East and partly to budgetary
constraints, has also been a problem in some projects.
25.     A number of operations are currently being prepared or appraised.
These include projects for power transmission, generation, and conservation;
oil and gas exploration and development; coal development; lines of credit
for industrial financing for the private sector, and for industrial subsector
restructuring, balancing, and modernization; irrigation/drainage, and
agricultural inputs and services; highway construction and maintenance;
primary and informal education; urban development and water supply. Sector
loans that would support further structural adjustment in industry and
agriculture are being discussed with the Government. Where successful, such
loans would provide a policy umbrella for projects in those sectors. To help
the Government finance agricultural and other high-priority projects having
low foreign exchange component, the Bank Group is financing some local expen-
ditures on a case-by-case basis.
26.     Economic and sector work provides the basis for the continuing
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakistan on development
strategy, the sector and project lending strategy and operations, and the
coordination of external assistance within the Pakistan Consortium. The work
program emphasizes resource mobilization, structural adjustment in the three
key sectors, and the development of the physical and social infrastructure.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
27.     Role of Sector and Recent Performance.  Despite its declining rela-
tive importance, agriculture continues to be the mainstay of Pakistan's
economy. It contributes about 30% of gross domestic product, provides about
two-thirds of total exports, and employs approximately 55% of the country's
labor force. It has close l:nkages with other sectors of the economy. After
a period of sluggish growth in the 1970s, agricultural output rose rapidly at
an average rate of 4.4% per annum between FY79 and FY83. In the first two
years of the Sixth Five-Year Plan period (FY84-88), agricultural value added
has grown at an average annual growth rate of only 1%. In FY84, partly due
to untimely rains affecting the wheat crop (the most significant agricultural
commodity) and serious infestation of the important cotton crop, this growth
trend was interrupted, resulting in a fall in agricultural value added.
However, a return to the earlier rapid growth trend was reported for FY85,
with a sectoral growth rate of nearly 10%.
28.     Pakistan's potential for sustained high growth rema ns unrealized.
Yields have stagnated, with expansion of acreage alone providing the bulk of
the increase in output. Application of existing technologies by farmers to
close this yield gap is constrained by various factors, including: frag-
mented institutional arrangements for the planning and implementation of
agricultural policies and supporting programs; deficient provision of key
inputs by the public sector, coupled with slow progress in broadening the
role of the private sector; inadequate infrastructural facilities, such as
rural roads, electrification, and drainage; and inadequate and unreliable
surface canal and public groundwater irrigation supplies.



-9-
Government Policy and Bank Group Assistance and Strategy
29.     Over the past six years, performance of the sector and prospects for
overcoming the above production constraints have been closely linked with the
Government's sectoral policies. These are reviewed below, along with the
Bank Group assistance strategy. The Government's National Agricultural
Policy, announced in 1980, recognized many of the above production
constraints, and reversed many of the inappropriate policies of the 1970s by
emphasizing: (i) a progressive adjustment of prices of key agricultural
inputs and outputs to reflect real resource costs, as opposed to restraining
output prices and continuing input subsidies; (ii) a gradual transfer to the
private sector of activities such as the distribution of key inputs and the
exploitation of fresh groundwater; and (iii) a re-orientation in its recur-
rent and investment expenditures on optimizing the use of existing irrigation
facilities, rather than on new, large infrastructural investments. These
policies recognize that sustaining agricultural growth and extracting the
potential benefits of huge investments made thus far in irrigation
infrastructure would require improved operation and maintenance (O&M),
increased efficiency and reliability of water delivery and use, expanded
drainage facilities in saline groundwater (SGW) areas, and improved support-
ing agricultural services. Many of the above policies and related programs
grew out of a UNDP-financed Indus Basin study in the late 1970s, the Revised
Action Program for Irrigated Agriculture (RAP), for which the Bank acted as
executing agency. The agr-cultural policies and programs pursued under the
Fifth Plan (FY79-83) and now continued under the Sixth Plan (FY84-88) address
many of the above issues. The Bank Group has supported sectoral reform
through complementary program and project operations, including the
Fertilizer Imports Credit (Credit 1066-PAK, 1980 fully disbursed), Structural
Adjustment Loan (Loan 2166/Credit 1255-PAK, 1982, fully disbursed), and
priority projects in on-farm water management (OFWM), irrigation
rehabilitation, drainage in SGW areas, extension and research, and credit.
30.    Actions taken by the Government to implement the above policies were
sustained through FY83. Procurement prices for most outputs were increased
to border parity and key input prices were increased substantially.
Pesticide distribution was privatized (and subsidy eliminated), and the
private sector's share in fertilizer distribution was increased. Public
recurrent expenditure on irrigation O&M increased rapidly, and investment
priorities shifted toward rehabilitation and improved efficiencies and
management of existing assets. In FY84 and FY85, however, the momentum of
policy change slackened, particularly in phasing out water and fertilizer
subsidies and in broadening privatization efforts.
31.    The Bank and the Government are in general agreement that sustaining
agricultural growth and reaping the potential of the agriculture sector will
require resumption of actions to implement sectoral policy reforms initiated
in the early 1980s. The Bank Group assistance program aims at assisting the
Government in accelerating the pace of reform through a proposed Agricultural
Sector Loan (under preparation), and through additional projects in drainage,
water management, research and extension, and credit that are designed to
alleviate bottlenecks to increased agricultural production. The proposed
project would address some of these bottlenecks, namely, the management of a
key input (groundwater), broadening the role of the private sector, and
reducing irrigation OEM subsidies, through privatizing the pumpage of water
in selected areas having fresh groundwater (FGW) supplies. The nature of the



-10-
issues to be addressed in the irrigation sub-sector through the proposed
project are highlighted below.
32.     Irrigation System.  Irrigation dominates Pakistan's agricultural
production. The country has about 40 million (M) irrigated acres, repre-
senting nearly 75% of the country's cultivable land. The Indus irrigation
system commands about 34.5 M acres and generates nearly 90X of the nation's
total value of agricultural output. Following partition of the subcontinent
in 1947, and subsequent agreement on division of the Indus waters in 1960,
large irrigation investments were made in Pakistan. In general, the projects
constructed in the 1960s and 1970s sought to replace water supplies lost to
India under the Indus Treaty on account of partition and to increase water
supplies primarily by providing reservoir storage. Secondarily, by develop-
ing Pakistan's extensive groundwater resources, they were designed to
increase the irrigated area and to intensify production on existing irrigated
areas, and thereby accelerate agricultural development. The Indus irrigation
system, which now comprises three major storage reservoirs (Tarbela, Mangla,
and Chasma), 19 barrages or headworks, 12 link canals, 43 canal commands, and
some 89,000 watercourses, is the largest continuous irrigation system in the
world.
33.     Emerging Drainage Problems.  While extensive development of the Indus
irrigation system over the last century has made possible vast increases in
agricultural production, it has not been without cost. The greatly increased
and continuous use of Indus waters for irrigation was developed without
adequate drainage facilities, and therefore has significantly altered the
hydrological balance of the Indus Basin. Seepage losses from irrigation
canals, distributaries, minor canals, and watercourses, as well as deep
percolation from irrigated lands, have caused a gradual rising of the
groundwater table. This has resulted in waterlogging and salinity in large
areas of Punjab and Sind Provinces, where most of the country's food and
fiber crops are produced. At the beginning of this century, the watertable
was generally more than 50 feet (ft) below the surface throughout the Indus
Plain. However, by 1960 the watertable had risen to about 10-15 ft of the
surface over a sizable proportion of the Indus Basin; by the late 1970s, the
Indus Basin Salinity Survey reported that about 22% of the Indus Basin had a
depth to watertable within 6 ft of the surface, and an additional 30% of the
area had a watertable within 10 ft. Studies, including those carried out for
the IDA-supported Left Bank Outfall Drain Stage I Project (Cr.1532-PAK), show
that a watertable within about 6 ft of the surface is a major constraint to
increasing Pakistan's crop yields, which are already low by international
s.andards.
34.     SCARP Program.  In 1958, the Government assigned the Water arid Power
Development Authority (WAPDA) responsibility for alleviating Pakistan's
expanding problems of waterlogging and salinity. Based on various studies,
WAPDA initiated a salinity control and reclamation project (SCARP) concept of
vertical drainage using large public tubewells (TW) to achieve the primary
objective of controlling waterlogging and salinity. A secondary objective
was to develop Pakistan's extensive fresh groundwater (FGW) resources for
increased agricultural production by supplementing surface irrigation sup-
plies with public pumpage facilities. A comprehensive multi-decade plan
based on the SCARP concept for the whole of Pakistan was prepared in the
early 1960s by WAPDA, with the assistance of international consultants.
Owing to the immense financial resources required to implement the plan, and
to some debate regarding the technological options and role of public and



-1 1-
private sectors in developing Pakistan's groundwater resources, the plan was
reviewed by several groups of international experts, incLuding a group of
consultant firms appointed by the Bank at the Government's request. These
reviews generally endorsed the SCARP concept as an appropriate drainage
technology and basis for subsequent SCARP investments. The plans proposed
that the SCARPS be financed and operated by the public sector because of the
limited role of private tubewells in Pakistan's agriculture at that time and
to ensure public management of ground and surface water deliveries.
35.     The SCARP program was launched in 1961 with SCARP I, which involved
the installation of 2,100 public TWs covering about 1.4 M acres (ac) of
waterlogged area in Punjab Province. Since then, 11 additional major and
numerous minor SCARPs have been completed, adding up to a total installation
of about 12,500 large-capacity TWs (2-5 cusecs). These investments cover an
area of about 7.4 M ac (or 20% of the Indus Basin's cultivable area), and
cost about US$550 million (in current prices). The Government's target of
achieving 15.5 M ac of SCARP coverage has not been reached, primarily because
of the high installation costs of SCARPs in the context of a severely con-
strained financial environment. Although the SCARP TUs were installed
chiefly to meet drainage requirements, in practice their provision of sup-
plemental irrigation has become the more dominant objective, with drainage
viewed as a by-product. This pattern is evident in the fact that about 90%
of the SCARP TWs have been located in FGW areas, even though more than 50Z of
the Indus Plain is underlain with saline groundwater (SGW). Moreover, about
75% of the SCARP TWs are located in Punjab, which has an abundant FGW
aquifer.  Most of Pakistan's extensive SGW areas that rely on irrigated
agriculture still require drainage facilities. As stated in Pakistan's Sixth
Five-Year Plan document, Government policy is to promote private sector
involvement in fresh groundwater development, including privatization of
SCARP pumpage in FGW areas, and to limit all future public sector SCARP
projects to the SGW areas for the sole purpose of providing drainage relief.
This policy is based on recognition that pumping for drainage is not suffi-
cient motive for farmers to invest in TWs. As a result, most of the public
SCARPs currently under construction are in areas underlain with SGW (the
location of SCARPs in FGW and SGC areas, completed and under construction,
are shown in Hap No. 19349).
36.      Emerging SCARP Performance Problems.  Numerous evaluation reports
have assessed the performance and impact of the SCARP TWs and have arrived
at two main conclusions: First, the SCARPs successfully provided urgently
required drainage relief to waterlogged areas during the first 10-15 years
following TW installation.  However, due to O&M problems, SCARP TWs have
deteriorated and have a limited capacity to meet drainage requirements on a
sustained basis. Second, SCARPs have not performed satisfactorily in provid-
ing adequate and reliable suppLemental irrigation at a sustainable cost to
the Government. In practice, SCARP TW performance, particularly in FGW
areas, has fallen short of its pumpage and agricultural targets for several
reasons, including some design problems, high O&M costs, and organizational
problems associated with public and centralized management of public TWs.
O&M activities for SCARP TWs in FGW areas are quite inefficient because of
excessive breakdown of equipment and encrustation of screens; an overloaded
electric power supply system; frequent motor burnouts; untimely and unreli-
able groundwater deliveries, including poor coordination with surface
deliveries; deficiencies of SCARP TW operators, and substantial shortfalls in
O&M funding. As a result, TU discharge has fallen sharply from design
capacity and expected levels; TW utilization rates are well below planned and



-12-
required levels; agricultural production targets have not been reached and
are far below their potential levels; and the watertable in some SCARP areas
is rising to near or above pre-SCARP levels. The shortage of O&M funding is
partly due to high subsidies on SCARP TWN provided by Provincial Governments
-- amounting to about 80% in financial prices, excluding a subsidy on power
tariffs--that are accorded to beneficiaries of SCARP irrigation water
supplies. SCARP TWs consume a substantial portion of total irrigation O&M
funds for the entire country (43% in FY85), and specifically in Punjab
Province (54% in FY85), and thereby effectively reduce the availability of
O&M funds for the country's vast surface irrigation system. Simultaneously,
Pakistan's surface irrigation system has deteriorated, partly due to insuffi-
cient O&M funding. (Annex III, Table 1 shows the relative importance of
SCARP O&M outlays as a proportion of total irrigation O&M expenditures for
Pakistan and for Punjab Province). It is critical to focus attention on
Punjab Province, where about 75% of the SCARP TWs are located. Also, the
Provincial Government, which has responsibility for irrigation O&M, confronts
a major recovery/expenditure gap. Numerous efforts to overcome the above
problems, particularly in order to meet agricultural requirements in FGW
areas, have had limited effect.
37.     Private Tubewell Boom.  Documentation of inadequate SCARP TW perfor-
mance in FGW areas, as cited above, is contrasted with reports of the spon-
taneous boom, beginning in the mid-1960s, in private TI installation and
pumpage in FGW areas. In fact, private TWs have performed a major portion of
the Indus Basin's drainage and supplemental water supply functions. Of an
estimated 36 M ac ft (Maf) of water pumped in 1983/84 from the FGW zones in
the Indus Basin, about 27 Maf (75%) were pumped by approximately 200,000
private TWs; the remaining pumpage (25%) is provided by the public sector's
larger-capacity SCARP TWs. Nearly 90% of the private TW pumpage occurs in
the Punjab. Although the SCARP TWs have provided a favorable demonstration
effect, many private TIs have been installed in SCARP areas, partly to comr-
pensate for the unreliability of the SCARP TWs in meeting crop water require-
ments on a timely basis. These private TWs have also contributed an impor-
tant public service as a by-product in helping to control the watertable in
areas where they are located.
38.     Constraints to Further Private TW Development.  Notwithstanding the
above, it is significant that private TWs have been installed primarily by
the larger farmers (usually having a farm size greater than 25 ac), compris-
ing about 10% of total farmers. The rate of private TW installation has
slowed significantly since the late 1970s. For example, during the period
1964/65-1975/76, installations increased by nearly 20% per year; since the
mid-1970s, the rate has slowed to about 3% per year. This trend confirms the
existence of various constraints in further installation of private TWs,
which limit the prospects of TW installation by the remaining 90% of farmers,
most of whom have landholdings of less than 12.5 ac. These constraints, many
of which are interrelated, include reLatively small farm size; limited dis-
semination of recently available low-cost and small-capacity TW technology;
limited avaiLability of electrification facilities and TW electrical hook-
ups; and deficient credit delivery system for promoting private TW
installation, particularly by small farmers. In recent years, progress has
been made in relieving some of these constraints on a piecemeal basis.
However, extending private TW installation to a significant portion of
farmers would require an institutionally coordinated effort to provide
farmers with an attractive incentive package (para. 51).



-13-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Rationale for Bank Involvement
39.     The O&IM problems of SCARP TWs, pressing financial constraints on the
Government, and the success of private TWs in tapping usable groundwater for
irrigation and meeting drainage requirements, have been important factors in
the origin of the SCARP transition concept. Stated simply, this concept
involves shifting responsibility for groundwater development from Covernment
to farmers, mainly by using small-capacity (less than one cusec), low-cost TW
technology, in order to meet irrigation requirements on a reliable and timely
basis. As a by-product, drainage requirements are also expected to be met.
Therefore, it is proposed to phase out SCARP TW pumpage by the public sector
in FCW areas and to replace it with privately-operated TWs, mainly by small
farmers. Implementation of the concept as a phased program was a major
recommendation of the RAP study completed in l199. The Government's inten-
tion to adopt the SCARP transition concept as a policy was first indicated in
the National Agricultural Policy, and subsequently in the Sixth Plan.
40.     At the Government's request, the Bank agreed to serve as executing
agency for the UNDP-funded feasibility study for the proposed project. The
project represents the culmination of about two and a half years of prepara-
tion work, and intensive policy dialogue between the Bank and the Government.
During project preparation, various options were reviewed; namely, to main-
tain the status quo, to improve existing SCARP O&M arrangements, or to
proceed with SCARP transition. Privatization was considered the best alter-
native in view of broader efforts by the Government to liberalize the economy
and the history of poor performance under existing arrangements, including
limited effects of past efforts to improve SCARP O&M. Based on a draft
feasibility report submitted by consultants, the Government of Pakistan and
the Government of Punjab decided to implement SCARP transition on a pilot
basis within Khanqah Dogran block, a selected area of SCARP I, because it
exhibits prospects for success in a representative area (e.g. watertable
under control, adequate quality groundwater, typical land tenure
arrangements, farmer receptivity to private pumpage). Project implementation
on a pilot scale is viewed as an essential step in assessing the prac-
ticability and replicability of the SCARP transition concept over a vastly
expanded area. If proven feasible, the demonstration-effects of the pilot
phase are likely to hasten the implementation of a SCARP transition program
on a country-wide basis. During the implementation of the pilot scheme, it
would be crucial to monitor it closely and to make changes as rapidly as
indicated. Therefore, both flexibility in design and monitoring are very
important (para. 59).
41.     The rationale for Bank involvement, beginning with project
preparation, is based on several considerations. First, the Bank has ! long
and ongoing association with the Government of Pakistan in developing ar.d
sustaining the productivity of the Indus irrigation system. In particular,
the Bank served in an advisory role during the initial stages of the SCARPs
and is currently financing several SCARPs located in SGW areas. Second,
privatization of public pumpage to meet multiple objectives is an innovative
concept that requires careful testing and evaluation before replication over
a large area. Bank involvement during this critical pilot phase is a logical
extension of its active and catalytic role during project preparation and,
more importantly, would enhance prospects of replicating the transition
concept in other SCARP areas within a reasonable period of time. Third, the



-14-
need to overcome constraints to further groundwater development by small
farmers requires close institutional coordination within and between sectors
(OFVH, agricultural extension, energy, credit) that involve ongoing and
proposed B.ank operations. Bank involvement would help the Government focus
on issues of institutional fragmentation and ensure a consistent approach in
the context of its efforts to broaden the private sector's role. Given that
there is no comparable project, no Operational Evaluation Department report
has been prepared for a project offering relevant experience.
42.     The project was prepared by the Government of Pakistan, assisted by
consultants, and appraised in June/July 1985. Negotiations were held in
Washington from March 11 - 17, 1986; the Pakistan delegation was led by Mr.
A. Wahab Shaikh, Secretary, Ministry of Water and Power. There is no Staff
Appraisal Report. Key aspects of the project are set out in Annex III, and a
supplementary project data sheet is attached as Annex IV. Approval by the
Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC) of the PC-1
document for the project would be an additional condition of credit
effectiveness. 1/
Project Area Characteristics
43.     The pilot project would cover the Khanqah Dogran block of SCARP I
in Punjab Province (Map No.19247). The block, located in a wheat-rice agro-
climatic zone, has about 114,000 cultivable ac. It is one of Pakistan's more
important areas for growing superior quality (Basmati) rice. The area is
currently being irrigated by a combination of surface perennial irrigation
supplies, 213 SCARP TWs pumping for both irrigation and drainage, and about
1,500 small-capacity, privately installed Tis. The amount of surface canal
irrigation supplies allocated to the project area is fixed as a policy deci-
sion according to historical allocations, and is unlikely to be changed on
account of the proposed project. Surface irrigation currently p-rovides about
25% of total irrigation. There are relatively high conveyance losses due to
inadequate O&M by Government on the canals and by farmcra on the communal
watercourses and farm ditches. The role of groundwater is critical in the
pilot project area: nearly 75% of the total irrigation supply is pumped from
a FGW aquifer, of which slightly more than half is provided by the SCARP TWs
and the remainder by private TWs. Deterioration of the SCARP TWs, most of
which have now exceeded their useful life, has resulted in declining public
pumpage and increasing private pumpage. Insufficient and unreliable irriga-
tion supplies, particularly from the SCARP TWs, and deficient cultivation
practices are the main constraints to increasing cropping intensities and
currently low crop yields in the pilot area.
44.     There are about 11,500 farm units in the pilot project area, with an
average farm size of about 10 ac. Small farm units predominate with about
752 of the total having less than 12.5 ac, which is the average farm size
in Pakistan. While the majority of farms are cultivated by owners and owner-
tenants, about 30% of the units are farmed by share-cropping tenants.
1/ A PC-1 (Planning Commission Proforma No. 1) is an internal government
project appraisal document necessary for the Government of Pakistan
approval procedures.



-15-
45.     Existing and proposed agricultural support services in the project
area are considered adequate to meet project objectives, although such serv-
ices need to be strengthened country-wide over the long term. In particular,
the Punjab Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
(Cr. 813-PAK), which was based on the training and visit (T&V) system, has
strengthened extension services in part of the project area. The Government
of Punjab is covering the remaining area during project implementation under
an Agricultural Development Project recently launched, which would enhance
the project's impact. Provision of credit facilities to small farmers,
particularly by the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP), has
improved in recent years. ADBP's operations in the project area, which have
intensified and are to be supported by a recently negotiated Sixth ADBP
project, are expected to meet the project farmers' credit requirements. The
Sixth ADSP project aims at providing more flexible requirements for securing
loans than at present and at increasing lending to landless borrowers on a
pilot basis. The project area has been selected as one of the priority areas
to be covered by ADBP's Lending operations for TWs. Provided there is ade-
quate implementation of the project's policylincentives package (para. 51),
the marketing and pricing of inputs and products offer sufficient incentives
to farmers to intensify agricultural production.
Objectives and Scope
46.     The project would be the pilot phase of a proposed SCARP transition
program to privatize TW development in SCARP areas having adequate quality
FCW. The pilot area covers 114,000 ac and 213 SCARP TWs. Ultimately the
program would cover 4 K ac being served by some 7,500 SCARP TWs. 1/ Specific
project objectives would be to develop a replicabLe package of technical and
institutional components for: (a) implementing Government policy of trans-
ferring to the private sector the main responsibility for FGW pumpage in a
representative SCARP area to meet more effectively both irrigation and
drainage requirements; (b) confirming that farmers, particularly small
farmers, would be willing and able to participate in the privatization of
groundwater development; and (c) increasing agricultural production and farm
incomes through improved conjunctive use of surface and groundwater supplies.
If proven feasible in the pilot phase, a SCARP transition program would
contribute to the important objectives of reducing significantly the
accelerating financial burden on Government of maintaining SCARP TWs (both
O&M and replacement costs), and of releasing financial resources for other
priority investments.
Project Description
47.     Components.  The project would include the following components to
be financed either under the proposed project or under ongoing Government
programs (paras. 56 and 57): (a) improvements in the electricity distribu-
tion system; (b) private installation of TWs; (c) irrigation/drainage
improvements; and (d) institutional development, including technical assis-
tance and training, monitoring and evaluation, and project management.
1/ Another 2 M ac being served by about 3,700 SCARP TWs are classified as
having FGW supplies, but the water's suitability for irrigation is
questionable. These areas would need to be addressed in the future as
part of an expanded SCARP transition program.



-16-
48.     Electricity Distribution System Improvements.  The project would
upgrade and extend the electricity distribution infrastructure in the pilot
area by reconditioning existing 11 KV lines; constructing new 11 KV lines;
providing 33/11 KV circuit breakers and accessories; providing distribution
transformers and low-tension electrical connections for privately installed
TWB; and installing suitable load management equipment to help induce pumpage
during non-peak hours.
49.     Private Tubewells.  (a) Installation -  It is anticipated that most
of the 213 SCARP TWs in the project area would be terminated and their water
supply replaced by approximately 2,100 small-capacity private TWs to be
installed mostly by individual farmers and, to a lesser extent, by small
groups of cooperating farmers. While farmers would choose the source of
power preferred (electricity or diesel) and the capacity of the TW to be
installed, observed trends and consultations with project area farmers sug-
gest that the vast majority of TWs (some 1,500) would be small-capacity and
electrically powered, provided that essential electrical infrastructure under
the project is in place on a timely basis. The remainder are expected to be
diesel-driven. Even with planned increases in the power tariff over the next
few years, most farmers are expected to opt for electrically-driven TWs in
view of the improved electricity distribution system to be provided under the
project. Since credit funds and the delivery system are already available
under ADBP's recently improved private TW credit operations, credit require-
ments for the private TWs would not be financed by the proposed project.
ADBP estimates that it would finance about 60% of total private TW
investments, with the remainder to be provided by farmers. The project would
also benefit from improvements in lending and outreach activities to be
implemented by ADBP in the project area (para. 45). (b) Drilling Works - As
an incentive to farmers and to ensure adequate spacing and timely installa-
tion of diesel TWs in accordance with the schedule to phase out SCARP TW
pumpage, the project would provide these farmers (estimated at 600) who
choose to install a diesel- driven TW Rs 4,000 to cover the costs of drilling
of boreholes. Experience with an unreliable power supply is expected to
influence some farmers to install a diesel-powered tubewell, although O&M
costs are currently higher than for an electric tubewell. The full cost of
diesel TW materials and equipment would be covered by farmers, many of whom
are expected to use credit facilities.
50.     Irrigation/Drainage Improvements.  Notwichstanding the constraints
of fixed allocations and high water losses of the surface canal irrigation
supplies, all farmers would continue to use all available (yet insufficient)
surface irrigation supplies. These supplies cost some five times less than
groundwater, which involves costly energy for pumping. Water allocations are
fixed and will not allow for increased surface flows into the project area in
order to compensate for the phasing out of SCARP pumpage. Therefore, the
following project actions would contribute directly to the project's objec-
tives and enhance farmer participation in the project by increasing the
availability of surface supplies through reducing water losses and by provid-
ing tangible evidence of Government assistance to farmers during SCARP
transition.
(a) Lining of Minors. All minor canals and smaller distributaries feed-
ing the project area (covering a length of about 20 miles) would be
lined to help reduce significant seepage losses occurring along the
minors, control waterlogging, and improve reliability of surface and



-17-
groundwater for increased agricultural production, particularly by
farmers in the lower reaches of the canal system.
(b) On-Farm Water Management (OFWM). To facilitate the efficient use of
watercourse channels for conveyance of surface and private TW water
supplies, and to promote the buying/selling of water supplied by
private TW8, watercourses and related field-level distribution sys-
tems would be improved by farmers, to whom materials and technical
advice would be provided.
51.     Key Design Features and Approach.  The design of the proposed four-
year pilot project (FY87-90) has three key features: a policy/incentives
package; field survey on a SCARP tubewell-to-tubewell basis; and integrated
project management. The policy/incentives package consists of:
(a) phasing out public sector pumpage from 213 SCARP TWs in Khanqah
Dogran block in accordance with the project's estimated implementa-
tion schedule;
(b) waiving the water charge on SCAREP TWs as public pumpage is phased
out; and rebating, for a limited period in accordance with existing
policy, the irrigation water charge to farmers who install private
TWs;
(c) providing institutional credit (through ADBP) of up to 95Z of the
total investment cost of private TI installation to all qualifying
farmers and offering production credit (including advances against
cost of energy) to such credit customers;
(d) providing on a subsidized basis and in a timely manner electrical
hook-up lines to farmers installing new TVs; and
(e) providing Rs 4,000 to farmers who intend to install new TWs with
diesel-driven pumping units to cover drilling costs.
52.     The SCARP tubewell-to-tubewell survey, based on consultations with
farmers in each TW command area, is intended to assess TW condition and
irrigation arrangements, including farmer intentions regarding replacement of
SCARP TW irrigation supplies and instalLation of private TWs (e.g., electric
or diesel, TW capacity and location, and degree to which joint ownership and
the water selling/buying of TW water would be practiced). The survey would
further indicate whether farmers prefer one of three possible approaches to
SCARP transition under the pilot project: (a) replacement of SCARP TWs with
smaller-capacity private TWs; (b) higher utilization of existing private TWs;
or (c) transfer of a SCARP TW in good condition to a farmer or group. Any
combination of approaches could be used in a given SCARP TW area. Field
surveys during project preparation indicate that the dominant mode would be
replacement of the deteriorated SCARP TWs by small-capacity TWs installed by
individuals and small groups of cooperating farmers, coupled with higher
utilization of existing private TIWs. Prior to phasing out SCARP pumpage by
the public sector, farmers in any SCARP TW command area would be notified at
least one crop season in advance that the SCARP TV irrigation supply be cut
off. Given the strong motivation of farmers to maintain irrigation supplies
in the absence of public pumpage, it is expected that many farmers would



-18-
engage in joint ownership of TW facilities and sell surplus groundwater to
those farmers who do not install a private TW.
53.     Integrated Project Management would entail the coordination of par-
ticipating agencies who would implement project components as part of their
ongoing programs. Specific project mechanisms would be put in place to:
deliver elements of a policy/incentives package on a timely basis; interact
with farmers; to coordinate various project components; and exercise
flexibility with project implementation.
Project Implementation
54.     Enabling Conditions for Implementation.  The most important enabling
condition is the implementation of the policy/incentive package (para. 51),
which would influence the outcome and timing of farmers' decisions to replace
public pumpage. Both the Federal and Provincial Governments have a strong
interest in ensuring successful implementation of this package. Assurances
have been obtained that the Government of Punjab would implement the elements
of project policy/incentives package, particularly the phasing out of SCARP
TW pumpage, in a manner and within a time-frame satisfactory to the
Association. A requirement for the project is the timely upgrading of cer-
tain power supply infrastructure in the project area which the Government is
financing outside the project. Completion of the Khanqah Dogran grid
station, which is to be given priority under the ongoing Fourth WAPDA Power
Project (Ln. 2499-PAK), together with the project's electricity distribution
system improvements (para. 48), would help ensure adequate and reliable power
supply to meet the requirements of the privately installed TWs. The
incremental power requirements of the project are negligible. The project
also would require effective and timely institutional coordination of the
various implementing agencies influencing farmer participation in the
project: WAPDA (Power Wing) for electrification; ADBP for credit; Punjab's
Department of Irrigation (DI) for lining of minor canals; and Punjab's
Department of Agriculture (DA) for OFWM and agricultural extension. As
outlined below, the key to the project's implementation involves coordination
of actions to be provided primarily by agencies already operating in the
project area. Electrification and credit facilities, which are the project's
two key components, would be provided by two of Pakistan's most competent
federal agencies-WAPDA (Power Wing) and ADBP. The project would formalize
the institutional coordination arrangements through a Memorandum of
Understanding among the key agencies (para. 58) to help ensure timely respon-
ses from farmers to the project's policy/incentives package.
55.     Project Management and Coordination.  Timely coordination of the
various project components would be the responsibility of the Project
Management Office (PMO), to be established in Punjab's Department of
Irrigation and headed by a Project Director of Superintendent Engineer rank,
assisted by consultants. The PMO would be responsible, inter alia, for the
following: coordinating the tubewell-to-tubewell survey; planning and coor-
dination of field implementation; monitoring; preparation of consolidated
quarterly and annual project progress reports and submission of these to the
Association; maintenance of project accounts; monitoring the Special
Accounts; coordinating and arranging (as necessary) procurement of goods and
services; and supervision of technical assistance and training inputs. The
Project Director would be assisted by three Deputy Directors and their staff
and supporting personnel: a Deputy Director (Electrification) and required
support staff provided by WAPDA to implement the electrification component; a



-19-
Deputy Director for handling project monitoring and accounts; and a Deputy
Director for implementing, surveying and planning, and field
coordination/implementation of the transitional modes selected by farmers.
The PMO's effectiveness would be largely influenced by its capacity to mobi-
lize farmers through effective communication of the project concept and
coordination of the participating agencies. A Project Area Coordination
Committee (PACC), comprised of senior project area officials of participating
agencies, local government authorities and farmer representatives from the
project area, would be established to provide implementation guidance and
assist the PMO in overcoming possible coordination bottlenecks and con-
solidating support from local officials and farmers. A Provincial Policy
Committee (PPC), chaired by the Chairman of the Government of Punjab's
Planning and Development Board, and comprised of senior officials of the
concerned agencies, would provide overall policy guidance and would help
overcome coordination problems not solved by the PM0 or the PACC. PPCs with
similar functions and composition have been established for several other
IDA-supported irrigation projects currently under implementation and have
proved helpful in overcoming implementation bottlenecks. The establishment
of the PMO, PACC, and PPC would be additional conditions of credit
effectiveness. These institutional arrangements have been designed so as to
be replicable in an expanded SCARP program if proven successful during the
pilot phase.
56.     Implementation Arrangements.  Implementation of the project's physi-
cal components and supporting activities have been grouped into an
Implementation Program which may be amended as necessary in consultation with
the Association. The power component of the project would be executed
through WAPDA's Pover Wing, with a special project unit to be established
under the direction of a Project Deputy Director (Electrification).
Implementation of the OFUM component would follow similar arrangements to
those established under the Government of Punjab's ongoing OFWM program so
that farmers along a given watercourse would be required to form a Water
Users' Association (WUA) as a condition of obtaining financial assistance
in renovating the watercourse. The Department of Agriculture, through the
OFWM Directorate, would provide the necessary materials and OFWM field staff
to assist farmers. The Government of Punjab have given assurances that
criteria satisfactory to the Association would be used in carrying out the
OFWM component, including selection of watercourses to be renovated, deter-
mining the length to be lined, and formation of WUAs. Given the requirement
of securing farmer-donated labor and forming a WUA, it is estimated that
about 90 percent of the project area watercourses would be improved under the
project. The minor canal Lining works would be designed by the Department of
Irrigation, with designs and specifications satisfactory to the Association,
and construction would be supervised by the Department's divisional staff
stationed in the project area.
57.     While credit and agricultural extension activities are not financed
by the project, the project would help to ensure that these critical
facilities are adequately provided. Credit for TW facilities and short-term
credit for their operation and other farm inputs would be provided by ADBP.
Functional Mobile Credit Officers, specially trained through the Minor
Irrigation Unit of ADBP, would intensify their activities in the project area
and establish contact with farmers/investors to provide technical guidance on
the most cost-effective TW investments, and extend credit to interested
farmers complying with ADBP lending criteria. Recent improvements in ADBP's
TW lending operations are expected to enable ADBP to promote TW lending to



-20-
small farmers in the project area, including small groups of cooperating
farmers, and to promote TW water buying/selling to enhance financial
viability of TW investments and access to groundwater by all interested
farmers. Improved water management extension, including that for TW
supplies, would be provided by the Directorate of Agricultural Extension of
the Department of Agriculture through the existing organization in the
project area.
58.     The project's activities would be integrated into the day-to-day
activities of ongoing programs of participating agencies; thus, the project
would require reLatively minor changes in institutional arrangements and a
small cadre of staff, with most project personnel coming from the concerned
agencies. To ensure clarity and full agreement on the roles and staffing
requirements of each participating agency in accordance with the project's
Implementation Program, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) has been drawn
up and agreed on with the relevant agencies. Signing of the MOU would be
an additional condition of credit effectiveness. Implementation of the
project policy/incentives package, institutional arrangements, and physical
improvements would follow a number of benchmark dates by which such actions
should be taken and completed. These actions and dates have been set out in
an Operational Action Plan which would be reviewed annually and, as
necessary, amended in consultation with the Association.
59.     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) and Possible Changes in Project
Approach. The project's pilot nature and uncertainties about farmers'
responses and the project's ability to meet drainage requirements over time
warrant an effective M&E system to be comprised of five main elements.
First, day-to-day monitoring of project implementation and coordination
activities would be carried out by the PMO under a unit headed by a Deputy
Director. Second, intensified monitoring by the PMO of key physical
parameters, primarily involving groundwater trends (depth to watertable,
private pumpage, and water quality), would be carried out in coordination
with WAPDA's SCARPS Monitoring Organization and its ongoing monitoring
activities. This performance monitoring, which would continue beyond the
project's implementation period, would assess the project's capacity to meet
drainage requirements on a sustained basis. Third, the project includes
funds so that the PMO can arrange to carry out special studies in the event
that unforeseen issues arise during implementation. Fourth, the project
would have a mid-term review to assess progress and validity of project
concept and approach and, if necessary, to formulate appropriate remedial
actions in project design and/or implementation. Fifth, the Government of
Punjab's Planning and Development Board, in coordination with the PMO, would
make appropriate arrangements to carry out an independent project evaluation
study. The study would assess farmers' responses to SCARP transition and its
initial impact, particularly on small farmers and tenants, and the
feasibility of and most effective approach for replicating SCARP transition.
The criteria for determining whether or not SCARP transition can be repli-
cated would center on the following indicators: (i) rate and extent of
replacement of public pumpage by farmers, particularly smallholders, under
the various modes of transition, and (ii) the extent of private pumpage to
increase cropping intensity and meet drainage requirements. The study's
terms of reference would emphasize these criteria. Taken together, these
five M&E instruments are aimed at providing flexibility in project design and
implementation, so that mid-course corrections, as warranted, could be
undertaken.



-21-
60.     Technical Assistance and Training.  In order to enable the PMO to
fulfilL its role in project's planning and implementation/supervision, the
project would provide about 378 man-months of consultancy services. About
95% of this requirement would be met by Local consultants with demonstrated
experience who would be encouraged to utilize international sources for
specialized inputs.
61.     The PMO would arrange for Punjab's OFWM Training Institute to provide
TW water management training to the agricultural field assistants in the
project area in accordance with a program satisfactory to the Association.
Some of the international consultancy inputs would be used to assist the
Training Institute to amplify the current course on water management, adding
special emphasis on TW water management. This four-week training course
would also strengthen the field assistants' capacity to implement the
project's field demonstration studies on TW water distribution, which are
expected to accelerate the expansion of the TW water market accompanying
transition.
Status of Project Preparation
62.     Project design is based on the feasibility study, appraisal mission
findings, and the initial findings of a tubewell-to-tubewell survey in the
project area, initiated in September 1985. In August 1985, the Government of
Punjab approved the project's policylincentives package and the Punjab Law
Department indicated that there are no Legal impediments to implementing
SCARP transition. While the first phase of the TW-to-TW survey is being
carried out by consultants who prepared the feasibility report, officials
from project implementing agencies currently posted in the project area are
also participating. These officials are providing a key role in informing
farmers of the Government's intentions to implement the policy/incentives
package. Of 213 SCARP TWs included under the pilot phase, about 100 TWs will
have been surveyed by mid-1986, which would meet the implementation require-
ments of the project's first two years. The remaining SCARP TWs would be
surveyed by about mid-way in the project implementation period. Appointments
of key staff are expected to be achieved by July/August 1986, the estimated
project start-up date. Draft terms of reference for the project's perfor-
mance monitoring component and evaluation study, consultancy services, and
field demonstration studies have been prepared, and appointment of consult-
ants is envisioned by project start-up. Tender documents for the procurement
of electrification equipment and materials are under preparation and are
expected to be issued by about mid-1986, with deliveries of the first con-
tract during the first half of 1987.
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
63.     Water Users' Associations (WUAs) would be established (para. 56) by
the OFWM Directorate in all the watercourse command areas having an improved
water delivery system. The WUAs would be responsible for O&M of the
renovated watercourses. The lined sections in the tails of minor canals and
distributaries would be maintained by the appropriate canal division of
Punjab's Department of Irrigation covering the project area. WAPDA (Power
Wing) would be responsible for O&M of the power lines, associated electrical
works, and collection of TW electricity charges based on prevailing
arrangements. Currently, all newly installed TWs include a meter as a basis



-22-
for estimating electricity charges. The farmers would have full respon-
sibility for O&H (of which about 752 comprises electricity charges) and
capital replacement of their individual TV facilities.
Project Costs
64.     Total project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at
US$21.8 million including US$2.9 million in taxes and duties. Foreign
exchange costs are estimated at US$9.0 million, or about 40% of total project
costs. Base costs are expressed in Harch 1986 prices. Project costs include
physical contingencies (ranging from 0-15%, averaging 10% of base costs), and
price contingencies on foreign costs of 3.2% in FY86, 7% in FY87, 7.3Z in
FY88, 7.6% in FY89 and FY90, and on local costs of 10% in FY86, 8.5% in FY87,
and 7.5% through FY90. Farmer-donated labor, valued at US$0.5 million, for
watercourse renovation, has been excluded from the cost estimates. (Annex
III, Tables (a)-(C) provide summary project costs).
Financing
65.     Project financing requirements would be provided by the Federal and
Provincial Governments, participating farmers/ADBP, and the Association. The
proposed IDA credit of US$10.0 million comprises about 80% of costs (exclud-
ing taxes and duties, reserve procurement items, and the private TW
component) and covers about 80% of foreign costs and 23% of local costs.
Vehicles and cement would be financed entirely by the Government. The
private TM component (US$5.2 million) would be financed by farmers, with
credit facilities offered by ADBP. The IDA credit would help finance
electrification, civil works and equipmer , OFWM materials (excluding cement)
and civil works for lining minor canals, office and other equipment, techni-
cal assistance and training, and the evaluation study. Remaining project
costs of US$6.6 million (including taxes and duties, all costs for drilling
works, vehicles, cement, and project management salaries and expenses), would
be finAnced by Government.



-23-
Procurement 1/
66.     The project's proposed procurement methods are summarized below:
Procurement Method a!
(US$ million)
Component                          ICB         LCB       Other    Total Cost
A. Civil Works
1. Electrification              -        -            2.1           2.1
(installation)                                   (0.8)         (0.8)
2. Lining of Minors             -       0.7            -            0.7
(0.4)                      (0.4)
3. OFPiM (materials)            -        1.1          0.6           1.7
(1.0) b/                   (1.0) bl
4. Drilling                     -         -           0.2           0.2
B.  Private TNs                     -         -           4.7           4.7
C. Materials & Equipment
1. Electrification             6.6       -             -            6.6
(6.4)                               (6.4)
2. Other Equipment              -        -            0.1           0.1
(0.1)        (0.1)
3. Vehicles                     -        -            0.3           0.3
D.  Consultants & Training          -         -           0.8           0.8
(0.7)        (0.7)
E.  Project Evaluation              -         -           0.7           0.7
(0.6)        (0.6)
F.  Salaries/Other Expenses         -         -           1.0           1.0
G.  Duties and Taxes                -         -           2.9           2.9
6.6      1.8          13.4         21.8
(6.4)    (1.4)         (2.2)       (10.0)
at  Figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed out of the credit.
b/ Excludes financing of cement.
Given their small and scattered nature, civil works associated with lining
minor canals and OFWM materials (excluding cement) would be procured by local
competitive bidding (LCB). Each contract estimated to cost the equivelent of
US$100,000 or more would be sent to the Association for prior review. LCB
1/ All figures include contingencies.



-24-
procedures for procurement of OFWM materials are being followed satisfac-
toriLy under various IDA-assisted projects. Drilling storks for diesel TWs,
to be financed entirely by Government, would be in accordance with Government
procedures. Privately installed TWs, to be financed by farmers (with credit
facilities offered by ADBP), would be purchased from local suppliers and,
where applicable, in accordance with ADBP procedures. Because of the pilot
project's requirement for flexibility and the close coordination required to
match farmers' TW investment decisions with the provision of credit by ADBP,
installation work of electrification facilities would be carried out by WAPDA
through force account. Electrification materials and equipment would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Local manufacturers would receive a margin
of preference in bid evaluation of 15% on equipment and materials. Such
contracts would be subject to prior IDA review. A relatively small amount
of office and other equipment would be procured following Government of
Punjab procedures satisfactory to IDA, comparing prices of at least three
independent sources. The aggregate amount of such procured equipment would
not exceed US$200,000 equivalent. Selection of consultants would be done
in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Disbursements
67.     Disbursements from the proposed credit would be made against:
(a) Civil Works
(i) Electrification installation: 30%
(ii) OFWM (materials, excluding cement): 90%
(iii) Canal Lining Works: 65%
(b) Materials and Equipment
{i) Electrification: 100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
70% of other local expenditures
(ii) Office & Other Equipment: 70%
(c) Consultants' Services and Training: 100%
(d) Project Evaluation Study: 100%
68.     Disbursements for items (a) (i), (ii), (iii) and (b) (i) (relating
to other local expenditures), and (ii) would be made against statements of
expenditure certified by the PMO. Supporting documents would be retained
by the implementing agencies for review by IDA. Disbursements for items
(b) (i) (excluding other local expenditure items), (c), and (d) would be made
against full documentation. It is anticipated that final disbursement of the
credit would be completed by December 30, 1990, about six months after
project completion. The project's disbursement profile, which is less than
that of IDA-supported irrigation projects in Pakistan, reflects the project's
pilot phase, Government policy to phase out public control of SCAR-P TWs in
the project area over the next four years according to an agreed schedule,
and the need for an early assessment of project experience prior to replicat-
ing the project over a larger area and a longer time-frame. In addition, the



-25-
project's relatively minor works are well within the demonstrated capacities
of the implemernting agencies. Since most of the electrification works
financed by IDA are to be installed ahead of private TWs, a major proportion
of IDA disbursements are expected to proceed in the project's early stages.
Therefore, the currently available disbursement profile of the conventional
project is not applicable to the pilot phase.
Special Accounts: Project Accounts: Auditing
69.     To facilitate adequate and timely project financing, the Government
of Punjab and WAPDA would each open and maintain in Dollars a Special Account
in the National Bank of Pakistan, in accordance with procedures and on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of watercourse
renovations and the electricity distribution system improvement components,
respectively. Each implementing agency would prepare and maintain project
accounts which would be audited annually according to current practice. The
PMO would consolidate project accounts. Audit reports would include a state-
ment verifying that credit funds disbursed in advance for the Special Account
and those reimbursed against statements of expenditure had been used for the
project. These reports would be furnished to the Association through the PHO
no later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year.
Cost Recovery and Fiscal Implications
70.     Cost recovery for irrigation and drainage is a central issue in the
Bank's dialogue on agriculture with the Federal and Provincial Governments,
including the Government of Punjab. Irrigation cost recovery, including that
from the SCARP TWs, is a provincial responsibility. Under the Command Water
Management Project (Cr. 1487-PAK),the Government of Punjab reaffirmed its
commitment to move progressively towards full recovery of the cost of O&M of
the irrigation system by July 1, 1990, through increasing water charges
periodically or making other appropriate financing arrangements. In FY85,
the Government of Punjab's total irrigation recoveries were about Rs 790
million, or only 53Z of total irrigation expenditures. Full recovery of O&M
expenditures through direct charges by the target date would not be easy
because of the extremely high O&M subsidy for SCARP TWs. In FY85, O&M expen-
ditures for 9,000 SCARP TWs in the Punjab were Rs 800 million, or about 55%
of total irrigation O&M expenditures (Rs 1470 million) in the Province.
About 75% of the SCARP TW O&M costs comprise energy charges. Direct
recoveries from SCARP TW beneficiaries were Rs 170 million, only 20% of
expenditures. The Government of Punjab strongly supports the privatization
of SCARP TWs in FCW areas in order to reduce public irrigation O&M expendi-
tures and enable their full coverage from user charges. Currently, irriga-
tion O&M expenditures are the second largest item in the Government of
Punjab's recurrent budget, and moreover, are equivalent to 33% of its capital
budget.
71.     Two project-specific charges, based on current policies, would be
levied on beneficiaries of the pilot project. In addition, farmers would
be enlisted in cost-sharing with Government for a third item. First, the
watercourse improvement program would recover at least 25% of the total cost
of materials (in installments over seven years) from beneficiaries, in addi-
tion to a substantial amount of farmer-donated labor. Second, any electrical
hovk-up costs in excess of Rs 30,000 (FY86 constant prices) per private TW
would be charged to beneficiary farmers. Third, to provide sufficient incen-
tive to farmers installing a diesel TW, the project would cover drilling



-26-
costs estimated at about Rs 4,000 per well, about 15% of the total investment
in a diesel TV. The balance would be provided by the farmer. Overall, the
subsidies implicit in the project's cost recovery arrangements are modest if
they are successful in inducing privatization of groundwater development by
smallholders in FCW areas. To the extent that private TWs contribute to
meeting drainage requirements as a by-product (para. 37), such Tls would
provide substantial social benefits. Over time, however, the subsidies would
need to be carefully monitored to ensure that they are effective instruments
in meeting the project's objectives and continue to be affordable by the
Provincial budget.
72.     While the budgetary savings of the pilot project is negligible, the
potential savings of its expansion into a SCARP transition program (i.e.,
some 7,500 TWs serving about 4 million acres in FGW areas) would be
significant. Assuming projected increases in power tariffs implied in agree-
ments reached under Bank-supported energy operations (e.g., Energy Sector
Loan, Ln.2552-PAK), and considering the O&M and capital replacement costs of
SCARP TWs, by 1990 the Government of Punjab's outlay for SCARP Tis in FGV
areas is estimated to be some US$60 million per year (constant mid-FY86
prices). If an expanded SCARP transition program is adopted during the 1990s
such a program is estimated to cost about US$40 million a year over
approximately 10 years, which illustrates the magnitude of reduced budgetary
outlays that could result. Without the SCARP transition program, the growing
large number of worn-out SCARP TVs in FGW areas would require significant
budgetary outlays for TW replacement. At the same time, the Government of
Punjab would allocate substantial funds to meet the full O&M requirements of
SCARP Tis in SGW areas, which would remain in the public sector. Therefore,
shifting the burden to farmers for meeting their supplemental irrigation and
the project area's drainage requirements, and for releasing budgetary
resources, warrants attractive cost-sharing arrangements and subsidies, as
outlined above, to provide farmers adequate incentives to privatize pumpage
at a satisfactory level.
Benefits and Risks
73.     Benefits.  The benefits estimated for the pilot phase illustrate
those that can be expected under an expanded program, adjusted for the area
covered. The pilot project, if successfui, is expected to increase substan-
tially agricultural production over about 114,000 ac by providing increased
and more reliable and timely irrigation supplies, complemented by improved TV
water management practices. These supplies would be made possible by replac-
ing the SCALP TWs with privately installed TWs, inducing additional utiliza-
tion of existing private TWs, and effecting efficiencies of the surface
irrigation system at or near the farm level by watercourse improvements and
the lining of minor canals. The estimated economic rate of return (ERR) for
the pilot project is about 23%. The base case assumes that, without the
project, the Government of Punjab would provide some improvements to the O&M
of SCARP TWs, resulting in some modest increases in production. Various
sensitivity tests were carried out to show the robustness of the project's
economic viability. For example, in the unlikely event that farmers' respon-
ses to replacing SCARP TV pumpage are delayed by three years, the project
would still have a relatively high rate of return of about 20Z.
74.     Approximately 11,500 farm families, or 15,000 people, would benefit
directly from the pilot project. Since about 40X of irrigation supplies in
the project area are provided by SCARP TWs, all groups of farmers would have



-27-
a strong motivation to replace that pumpage, even at higher cost. Increases
in income due to the proposed project are estimated at 25% to 90Z, depending
on farm jize, land tenure, and source of TV supplies.  The benefits would be
expected to accrue primarily to families with annual incomes currently below
US$100 per capita. These projected increases in farm income, enabled by the
project's cost-sharing arrangements, offer adequate incentives for all
farmers to participate in the privatization of SCARP TV pumpage. Based on
existing practices of crop and input cost-sharing, including TW water
supplies, tenant farmers, who comprise 30% of project area population, are
expected to receive 50Z of the increased net farm income. Tenants would be
protected from eviction by a number of statutory and acquired rights, and the
project-generated farm employment would further protect their right to the
land through a higher demand for their labor and ensure that they receive an
equitable return. In accordance with current practices, but on an expanded
scale, small farmers who do not install a private TW (individually or
jointly) are expected to purchase TV supplies from neighboring farmers and
still reap substantial incremental net farm incomes. The annual income of
typical smallholders (including tenants), who comprise about 75% of the total
farmers in the project area, is expected to be about US$135 per capita with
the project, as compared to about US$95 per capita without the project, and
to US$75 at present (all in mid-FY86 prices). These income levels, even at
full development of the project, are substantially below Pakistan's current
per capita income of US$390.
75.     On balance, the income distributional effects of the pilot project
are likely to be positive, considering that the project would provide small
farmers with a reliable source of TW irrigation supply, and therefore,
proportionally higher increases in income than estimated for the large
farmers already owning TWs. Under existing arrangements, the unreliable
SCARP TW irrigation supplies, in practice, have an adverse impact on small
farmers, because, unlike large farmers, they have limited (if any) options
to compensate for shortfalls in SCARP pumpage. Given the project's pilot
nature and the predominance of small farmers in the project area, impact on
small farmers, particularly tenants, would be given special attenticn in the
evaluation study (para. 59).
76.     Environmental Impact.  Over time, SCARP TV pumpage of FGW supplies
in Punjab Province has resulted in deterioration of water quality due to the
effects of pumping from greater depths (up to 250 ft) and consequent recir-
culation of water, with resulting concentration of minerals and salinity that
limit use of groundwater for irrigation. While the project area has not yet
experienced this deterioration, privatization of pumpage with small capacity
TWs at shallow depths (up to 50 ft) is expected to have a sustainable posi-
tive impact on groundwater quality, at least in the near-to-medium term. The
long-term effects of the project on groundwater quality are uncertain and
will be an aspect of performance monitoring to be continued upon completion
of project implementation.
77.     Risks.  Inadequate implementation of the project's policy/incentives
package would jeopardize the success of the pilot project. In particular,
any wavering of the Government's commitment to phase out the highly sub-
sidized SCARP TW pumpage or any delays or restrictions on the provision of
electrical and/or credit facilities would adversely affect farmers' responses
to SCARP transition (i.e., leading to shortfalls and/or delays in the instal-
lation of private TWs and pumpage). To minimize this risk, the project
policy package was approved by the Government of Punjab well ahead of planned



-28-
project start-up, a tubewell-to-tubewell survey has been initiated, and
implementation arrangements provide for an integrated, coordinated, and
flexible approach by participating agencies. The pilot project was designed
to involve smallholders in privatizing public pumpage, and any associated
risks would be minimized through attractive cost-sharing arrangements,
emphasis on intensified lending to small farmers by ADBP for TWs, promotion
of an expanded water market, and effective monitoring and evaluation, includ-
ing a mid-term review of the project's initial implementation experience.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
78.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, and I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed project.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 15, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-29-                                           Annex I
LA L  3                                          Page 1 of 6
MOST                     (mO   EcENT  gTIATE) b
iggoik  ,970Lk ICDI?              LOW INCOII            NID OL
1EU0 1ATESLkz    ASIA 6 FACIrIC      , AS    A PACIFtC
ADJUIE  ENRtOLUINT 36110
FIINARTI  TOTAL                   30.0       *0.0        64.0               92.6                    100.7
ALS                    46.0        57.0       57.0              105.5                    1064.
F1NALE                 13.0        22.0       31.0               79.3                     97.2
USCONCAt TOTAL                    11.0       13.0        14.0               31.3                    47.8
ALt                    1.0         20.0       20.0               40.5                     50.6
FEKALt                  3.0         5.0        6.0               21.9                     66.6
VOCTIONAL (S OF IECONDARI)           1.0        1.1         1.7               3.2                      16.4
PUPtL-TEACNER RATIO
mII?t                             39.0       41.0        36.0               38.0                     30.6
ESCWIAIT                          24.0        20.0       16.0               17.4                     22.3
commTION
PAUSEIBR C4IS/THOUSAND FM            1.5         2.6        3.4 LE             0.9                     10.1
3DmO RIC&VREISTO'SAND POP            6.0        17.1       74.6              129.8                    172.9
TV  IVBUlM ?UID POP                  ..          1.6       11.5               19.8                     50.5
NEVSPAIE ("oAtLY  ONRL
iuTr) CIICIJLATION
Pe  TOUSAIID POPULATION            13.2        .-         19.6               25.7                     65.3
CtNEX1L AOUAATTAIDANCE/C6NITA        1.7         3.0 LI     2.2.Lt:            6.0                      3.
TOTAL LANCE tOC  (TUnUS)         14448.0    17364.0    25325.0
FEnALE   ICU)                      8.6  *    9.3         10.6               33U.                     33.6
ARICUPLTURZ (PIRCZNT)             61.0       59.0        57.0               69.6                     52.2
INDSTET (PERET)                   18.0        19.0       20.0               15.8                    17.9
PARTICIPATION RAES  (PERCE
TOTAL                             31.5        28.7       26.2               61.9                     38.9
PALE                              55.2        50.'       48.3               53.6                     50.6
FZmALZ                             5.7        5.5         6.3               29.1                     26.6
GMONSC DEPNUNC RATIO                 1.5         1.7        1.7                1.0                      1.1
PERCENT OF PRVATS rACM
RECIVED S
IICIEST 5S or HOUSERDLOS          20.3 /k    17.6         ..
3CEST 20ox or mOUssOLDS           45.3 7ki    41.6        ..                 ..                     u0
LOuiST 201 O0  mSIRLDs             6.4 7      8.0         ..                 ..                      6.4
LOHES 40 OF MOUSEMOLDS            17.5 7      20.2        ..                 ..                      15.5
- u -so
ESTIMATED ABsOWTu PozYER?  INCOIm
LEVEL (US$ PU CAPITA)
URBA                               ..        68.0 /S   176.0 lc            133.9
RURAL                              ..        47.0 f    122.0 7             111.6                    151.9
ESTIAE   ATIVE POVER!  INCOME
LmL (115 m  CAPITA)
RB                                 ..        34.0 ft    86.0 Th              ..                     177.9
nOAL                               ..        22.0 7a1    58.0 2            61.7                     166.7
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERT  XIN:O LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                              ..        42.0 A      32.0              6 *3.8                   23.5
RURAL                              *-        43.0  _    29.0 7             51.7                     37.8
NOT AVALABLZ
NOT APPLICAXLZ
NOTSZ 
.  The group avera  for each lndIcator  rst populatioOelgbhted arithmtlc mean. Coerae of countries
_noug Cho Lndietors depends on avaiLability of data nd is not uniform.
/b   Unless Othsrvise noted, -Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for "Hoc Recent Estlate betuen 1981 and 1983.
Jc  1979; /d 1968; /I 1977; If If registered, not all practiSing in the country; i  1980; tb 1973;
Il 1972;.-l  1966.
JUNE. 1985



-30-
Anu 1
T LLL &                                                     lPags 2 of 6
PANiC                  - coaIICYh  mcn        i gam
masrs    o        c              csansw wlacaw") 
S        bAl 1111~~~~~1101 "UCA1
LIG44      1,i7L    Tiji&bL           ASIA & PAQiFIC         "aSI & VACLFIL4
TOTmL       qIU3.9                              SISJ        HOL.
ACEICULTUCAL                        227.5      2b3.3        253.0
?  -  CAI    UP)                         ..          ..        3 oa.0      1      flu.)                     o.
0 WTiW aP CAITA
(KILOGRAMS W OIL S0UIVAI*r)          95.0       339.0       179.0              235.7                    ft0.6
V0inamuuN m  VITAL sstzEsnm
309ULATION.Nlf-YR  CTNOCSMIUS    453951.0    6049.0      3729.0
_RAi PIULATtAl CZ OF TOTAL)          22.1        24.9        29.1               72.3                      35.9
POluAns Pl0JtIONS
POCILTION Io TEAR 200 (HIELL)13.
SIATISIS  voPmaTIOu (KtILL)                               330.0
POPCLA       ITIM n                                          0tl  1.9
POPULATiO flUlh-
Pri SN. M.                         57.0        71.2       111.0              173.                      334.v
mP  SO. KM. ACia. LAW             201.5       243.4       34.4               353.3                    3593.2
POATION AGE SNI=UC          (Z)
0-134 us                          43.5        46.2        43.7               34.3                      iS.
15-64 TRS                          51.5        50.5        53.2               5 A                       52.7
es AM  AWVE                         4.3         3.1         2.9                4.3                       3.5
POPULATION GCON RATE (i)
TOTAL                               2.3         2.5         3.0                2a.                       A.)
CR1                                 4.1         4.0         4.4                4.1                       4.1
KII    M     KATS (PER TOWS)         48.1        16.4        42.0               27.5                      30.1
c3         DIR ATE (PE  TUS)         23.5        19.A        14.9               10.2                       9.*
BfthSS REPRDUCTION RAIT               3.4         3.4         2.8                1.7                       1.9
FAMILY PLUMING
ACCEPTORS. AIAL (TUCS)              ..       1900.1      1244.0 Ic
USERS CZ or MAUlED   WlIe)           .          n.0 Id     14.3               49.4                       e.)
Ear OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        3.0        102.0       107.0              11A                      124.A
PM CAPITA SUPPL OF
CALORIES (S OF 71UIQDllTS)        77.0        95.0       14.0 10.3                                    115.7
PUOEKS (CGM PSt OAT)               53.0        53.0        41.0               10.1                      40.3
OF 3C106 SMINAL  AMI PULSE        23.0        22.0        20.0 Ia            11.4                      14.1
01tlD (AGES 1-4) 1(13'*N 11          24.9        21.1        14.0                7.3                       7.2
LIM EPECT. AT SIRTH (YEAS3           43.1       4.0          50.2              00.5                       60.6
If7 "MEl. RATE (FPR T10S)           131.5       143.0       119.0              0.2                       ".9
ACCESS TO SAF% WATI (1PMP)
TrTAL                               ..         21.0        3U.6             "4.2                       4
UCRA                                ..         77.0       72.0                77.2                      57 .
UAL                                 ..          4.0        20.0               34.6                      37.1
ACCES TO EDCKTA ULSPOSAL
(2 OF P LATION)
TOTAL                               ..          3.0        13.1                7.8                     1i.3
CEAl                                ..         12.0        42.0              23.8                      52.9
RURAL                               ..          ..         2.0                 5.5                      4.7
POULATIOE M   1TSlcAt              5400.0      4300.0 11  348O.0 A           3315.0                    7751.7
PM. PE  3IWISC PERMSO            36110.0       050.0 7    5820.0             440.7                     24.4.8
PM. PQt uSonAL ED
TOTAL                            1790.0      1340.0      1540.0 IC          1039.2                    1112.1
uRA.                              510.0       650.0       710.07;           29z.1                     451.4
RURUL                          22350.0    12480.0    11EW.0W               .02.2                     259o.9
ADWSSIOS PR  HOSPITAL   D             ..          ..         ..                52.3                      41.1
AWERAZE IZOf HOUsmOLw
TOTAL                               5.4         5.3         4.1 Ic
CRE                                 5.1         5.5         6.4 /c
IURAL                               5.4         5.2         6. 7..
AVUZLE HO. OF flESluSIOU
TOL                                 3.1         2.3 In      ..                 .
UCREA                               3.1         2.7 7W
RURAL                               3.1         2.8 lb
PCCEACE or MaLLInCS         ELCT.
TOtAL                               ''         17.9 lb
RNA                                 ..         54.4 lh
RURAL.. *.9..



-31-                                             ANNEX I
page 3  of 6
NMoeA w Alshou .iar waf           pamljdpW  emt autatlwad rlmbl i should also be  tdW  _ tha        b She mumao*
b  h.b . doft hlaker d      d_di d     _Adm  md  .npos _ m d    co dibm t euattim In clng te dat. 11 dmu ame.omb, mIul i
d   _is oden o miutiu le dii nm,ad daaeh  cnl. mjor diIrm  b1. eeuntru;_
lbs ubw   w_ u (I) lb-   uhy  aspo the e*tX omy and R) a oausay pie ih oewhat blher awap |- incoeta sh omat
s W.   fr Hi* lalmO Oil IA                    s gro  when "Mi      coo Nah     ad Middl bM  m     . baeosrngr
a n  l laths retns oup dan te arunawe        o w_ihma a_ihma        rot aae imiat d hn   ely   e moity
a(taombuaa wuphmdatafort*dt lnii . rn   thcoverage ofomtra.M. sdn iaiensdqdon he alaheityof dt d  i ot inifonn
a mm bsaa ls In_dia int0averages of  Indkana to aowhe Thm average m only uassfin oowenng the vale ofi aindlomor at a tide amonug
do emany amd s    5101*1
AREA (thouad q qkm.)                                         CrG Aiii Roe (*iar thrnd)-Numiber orflivc births in the year
Toted-Total surface a   compring n  ara and inlad waters     per thoumd of mid-year populaion; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960 1970 nd 1983 dta                                        Crud De at    r ue(petr *  i)-Number of deaths in the year
ASplEaw-Eatm-   of agricul       aatu used tepi   y  or       per thousnd of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 datL
pernmedy for cropg. pasur  market and kitcn gardens or to     Grm Repredi  Rate-Average number of daughters a uman
ie falfow, 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                         will bear in her norma reproductive period if she experie
present ag-spefic fertility rates; usually fiv-yer avages ending
GNP PM CAPfA (USS)-GNP per capita imat at currnt              in 1960,1970, and 1983.
markt prScs calctd by some conversion method a World          rhlilk                   A 1 (ti)-Annual nm-
Bosk Ad= (196143 bsi); 1983 data.                             ber Ofrp    of birth-control devie under auspices of ational
ENSRGY CONSUWIION PER CAPTA-Annual apparent                   family planoing progam.
_onsup        of ommeaial prmary ener  (coa and lignite,      ku* Pf UiM-Lirs (pfev   of  wrked s         -Tbe pere-
petroklu, natural  s and hydro-. nucear and geothermal eec-   tae of married women orchild-bearing ag who ae pracicing or
tricity) in kilogrms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands ar practicing any form of contraception. Women
1932 dataL                                                   of dcld-beauing ag ar grmaly womeo agd 15-49, althoug for
some counries contraceDve usage is measured for otber age
POPULATlION AND VfAL STiCS                                   UlCS 
TAaIh,uiatie, Mld-Yew (s         ds)-As of J uly 1: 1960. 1970,  FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
Miss M   I Pi    pffee   of tw)-Rati or ubm to otal  dex efFood &mdwodeuu P& Capita (1169-71 - 160)-Index or per
IJrhin opudtima (perent of t.tal)-Ratw io ofurban to total   capita annual producton of all food comioditdes. Produco
population. differet defiutoas of urban area may affect compar-  ecldudes animal feed and sce for agriculture. Food commodities
ablity of data among countie; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.      idude primary commodies (eg. suganane insted of sugar)
_ I      Fqb Projeedw                                        whic ame edible and contain nuients (eg. coFfee and tea are
P*p-kdsn ix yaw 2000-The prjedion of population for 2000.    excluded). they comprie cereaLs root crops. pulse  oil seeds.
made for each emmy sparely. Starting with information on      vcgetable, fruits. nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets, vcvestock, and
tota popubion by age and sex, ferilty res, mortality rate, and  iivstock products Aggregate production of each country is baed
inteionl migron in the base year 1930. these parametes       on naional average producer price weaghts; 1961-65. 1970, and
were projeced at five-year inteals on the basis of geneimhd   1982 dataL
assumptions until the population became stationary.           Pir Cepita Suppty of Calrie (pepcetr frqM*==ftk-4COMput-
Stati yypopukwa-tss  one in which age- nd sex-specific mor-  ad from calori equivalent of ne. food suppies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a bog period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Availablc suppis comprise domestic produc-
ferli rates have smultaneously remuined at repmament level   don. imports lkss exports, and changes in stock. Net supplis
(net reproduction rate- 1). In such a population the birth rate is    xclude animal feed, seeds for wue in agriculture, quantibes used i
cstaunt and equal to the death rate, th  age stnrcte is also  food procesing, and osse in distribution. Requirents wre
constant and the growth rate is wo. The sationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size wa estimated on the basis of the prqjecaed charcteristics of  and bealth considering environmental temperatur  body weights.
the popultion in the year 20D0. and the rate of decline of fertiliy  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replaement kveL                                      waste at housebold levelt 1961. 1970 ad  1982 data.
Popumlad  Monmwnw-ls the tendency for population growth to   &er Capit Sp*  o_f Ptei (grasmpr pAl)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacemnt-level fertility has bem  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
acheved; that is, even after the net rmproduction rate has radied  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA,
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum aDowances of 60 grams of total proin per
a ratio of the utimte stationary popution to the population in  day and 20 gmms of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at rePace-  should be anima- protein. These standards.are lower than those of
meat kvd from year r onward, 1985 data                       75 gams of total protein and 23 gpas of animal protein as an
P*eeu &t.*y                                                  aveage for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per jqJbzL-Mkl-year population per square kilometcr (100 hc-  Supplr, 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) or total area; 1960.1970. and 1933 data.              Ar Capt Norm Suppiy &m Anim  emd Pabs-Protcin supply
Per sqgA  qriaaanral ld-Computed as above for agricultural   of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960, 1970, and 1982eata.                          1970 and 1977 data.
Poplalo Age &rue (jiffena)-Children (0-14 years), work-      CbM (ag  1-4) Deat Rae (per tshosmd)-Number of deaths of
in age (l5-  years). and rered (65 years and ovr) as percentage  children aged 1-4 yeas per thousand chdildren in the same age
of mid-yer population; 1960.1970. and 1983 data.             grop in a given year. Eor most devedoping countries data derived
PapsAwatlo Grow&h Awe (parwt)-tocil-Ananual growth rates of  from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year populadon for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.  HEALTH
-        Ch2u.  Growth  (perc   -snum-Annual growth rates    Life Expectxucy a Birt (yers)-Number of years a newborn
of urban popultion for 1950-60,1960-70, and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevailing patters of mortality for all people



-32-                                            ANNEX I
page 4 of 6
at th time of ori bint rthw e  tosayth  tou out it life;      Pti*acher Roalo - pi*wy. and mcondary-Total students en-
1960,1970 and 19  dat                                        rolbd iu pimry and  _oday kls divided by numbes of
41 m  Mut   RN (per thih     )-Number of infnts who die       tach  in the corspoeding levels.
beore reching o  y   of ap per thousnd live births in a given
year, 1960,1970 ad 1983 data.                                 CONSUMTON
A5m to So      W  (pFu   of p_-k-ls"      -. W&, A          1Pbmq   Cas (per thcUud                         CMCMa-
used-Number ot people (tomadl urb   ad rual) wih  wnble       prine motor car luting less than eight persns: xclude ambul-
cs to Oaf Wae spply  clude treated surface wa     or    *a, beu       military vehice.
untmated but  towsed war insch a that from  protecad           &P  Remb,, (Per 1m sadp           )-AH types Of reives
buhols prn  and snitary wcl) a paeas of thdr rapec-           for radio broadcast to gneral public per thousnd of popultion;
tve populations In an urbn are a public foutain or sAndpoat  e         u        recivers in countries nd in yer whe
located not more than 20 metes from a home may be considered  xW unlmdciv inonieadiny                                 wn
as being withi reasonable amcs of that house. In rural area   registration of rado nut was in effect data for recent years mly
reanable:access wojd unply hat the houawife or membes orthe   not be comparble since most countries abodished lieing.
houwelbold do not have to sped a diproporionate part of the day  rvRECEIVm(per I  -_ d.p.lieel)-TVreceiversforbroadcast
in fetching the fimily's water needK                          to general public per thoumand populo  excludes unicnsd TV
Accen is Ezerem Dbpwd (praw qfP0Pd&*0)__ft"114111M.    receiverns in countries ad in yeus when regisaion of TV sets was
and nral-Number of people (totaL urban, and rural) seved by   in e
excreta dispoal a pentas of their respective populations.    NArv    ' CIrlads (pffr vhindpepsts")--Shows the aver-
Excret dispoWl may include the collction and dispoul, with or  age cculatOn of daily gal intemt newpaPer." defined a a
without treatment. of hum  excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted prinarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considemd to be -daily" if it appears at ket four times a week.
Phdhri  per Phpsism-Pbpulation divided by number of prac      CimA Am_e Atesn_ce arp  Cap "er Ye-Bared on the
tising pbysician qualid from a med    school at university level.    number of tickets sold during the year. including admission to
1 _pdsrN pe NwAhg hr.Pu-Npulation divided by number of       dnve-in cinema and mobie units
practicing mule and female grduate nurs   assistant nurise.
practcal nures and nursing auxiarieL                              OR FORCE
-J pati   per H ru"  (td-waI, swim, aw   I                    Toa Lab  Forc (t*Dmadr)-EcmcallY active persons, in-
(tots, urban. and rus divided by their respective nunber of  cluding armed fonre and unempkoyed but excluding housewives.
tosotal bosan an  rurl    and priv                              d and peaized  ents, etc-. coveing population of all ages. Dfinitions in
hospitals  aa rebilabln ubbeo and Hospitate   are eral bhan ents  various countries are not compamble; 196D. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanety staffd by at least one physician Establisents prov-  Fii lk (PwenaJ-Femnle labor force as percenta  of total abor
iding prmnpally cutodial ce are not induded. RWal hospia     force.
howe, includ beath and mdi  centers not permnetly staffed     A_kWn (Vc ma)-LAbor fore in farming. forstry. hunting
by a phyn (but by a medical asiant. nure midwife, etc.)    and fishing as pecntage of total labor fore 1960. 1970 and 1980
which ola in-Ptien aannodation and provide a limited range   data.
of medical fialite                                            IAAetrY (Pocua)--Labor force in mining, construon. manu-
Ad _u'm  pa How*  Bad-Total number of admisions to or         facturing and electricity, water and gas as perezntage of total labor
discharns from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
Po    Rimr (jecat)-4Ma, R,  _M l.-Pftio nptk
HOUSIG                                                       or activy rtes are computed as totaL male. and female labor foce
A swage Sig of Hle.mi,d (paws pr  Mnu111,    as percentes of totL male and female populktin of all aes
smwul-Ahoueholdconsistsofagroup of iividuawho shre            respectivdy; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These ae based on ILOs
living quartes and their in meals A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting a-  structure ofthe popudon, and
may not be incuded in the houshold for staistical pupoes     long time tend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Aera  NIVer of Pas    per Rosa.-etusl, mba, md ,w&L-         Eco:.c Depe.l*wy Radi-Ratio of population under 15, and
Averag  number of persons per room in aU urban, and rurl     65 and over, to the working age population (diose aged 15-64).
oxupied conventional dwdlings respectively. Dwdlings ecclude
non-pemanent stuctue and unoccupied part.                    INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Ph_.eu   of Dwes wd Ekenfricft-rte4 wAim,d raid-             Pmc         of Toa Dble lcm (back i a"  d kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarter as pereen-  Accruing to pentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rurl dwellings respectively.       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A*ued E&w.at R_to                                            The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Plhiwy idwl - totd. mak and fenak-Gross totaL male and       levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ags at the prmary level as perentag  of  Extmaed Abschse Powt mee Levd (US( per caits
respecti  priumy school-ag popula  . While many countnes      td  al-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years others do not The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differ  in country practces in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordabk.
are reflected in the rati  gin. For some countries with univeal  ErL.ebd tebiv pwury Inwcoe Levd (USS p. oyx__wI
education, guns enrollment may exceed 100 percent ince some   nd rweI-Rural relative poverty income lvd is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban levd is
agc                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Setmdary swod - road, ni midfemae-Computed as above;    living in urban Areas.
secondary educaion reque at la  four years of approved pri-  EsAelM     Popuri  Bdle  Absolte  werry bwom  Led (pew-
mary nircon;  provides general, voctional, or teacher training  et)        d rww- Percent of population (urban and rural
insuction for pupils usually of 12 to 17 yea of age; correspond-  who are absolute poor.-
ece coufe are generally excluded.
Vomma Enrollmi (pere  of secdary-Vocational institu-                   Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions idclude technical industraL or otber programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projctions Department
independently or as deputmnts of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



-33-
Page 5 of 6
ECONOHIC DERELOPHENT DATA
CHP PER CAPITA IN 1962: US$380 k&
GROSS RATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1983/84 Lk                                         AIWNAL RATE OF GROUT! (S. conatant uricem)
US$  Billion                         19 6l970-19U 4175  1975/6-1_900181  1981/82  19821/3   MUMi
C?P at market prices              33.68           100.0                    3.5               7.1            4.3       7.4       4.2
Crosc domestic investment          5.23            15.5                    5.5               4.1            10.5      9.6       3.4
Cross national savinR              4.20            12.5                   -2.1               6.7            6.9      24.9      -6.5
Current account balance           -1.00            -3.0                     .                  .
Exports of goods. NFS              3.44            10.2                   -3.5               7.3           -5.6      27.5      -3.2
Imports of goods. NFS              7.06            21.0                   -7.1               5.5            0.7       1.1      22.0
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1983/S4
Value Added                   Labor Force Ic                  V. A. Per Worker
StJilflaa    SL               fHlin I     Z                      US$      2
Agriculture                       6,652      24                 14.1       51                      472     47
Industry Id                       8,096      29                  5.2       19                    1.557    155
Servicez                         12.931      47                  S.L       30                    1.558    Lil
Total/Average                  27,679    100                  27.6      100                    1,003    100
COVERNMENT FlNANCE
Central Government l                                 ederal Governmnat
(R  billion)            S of CDP                  (Rs billion)          S of GDP
1983184 Lf    1983/f4  1978179-1983184            1983184 LL  1983/84  1978/79-1983184
Current receipts                         73.2          17.4          16.6                 58.2         13.9          12.4
Current expenditures                     80.3          19.1          23.5                 62.8         15.0          13.2
Current aurplus                          -7.2          -1.7          -6.3                 4.6          -1.1          -0.4
Capital expenditures it                  34.2           8.1           9.4                 34.2          7.0           8.0
External asaistance (net)                 6.0           1.4           2.1                  6.0          1.4           2.1
MONE   CREDIT AND PRICES
1974/75   1975176   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979180   1980/81   1981/82  1982/83  1983/64 L/
(Eu billion)
Money and quasi money li                    33.1       41.6       51.7       63.7       76.5       90.7     103.5      113.6    146.0    162.5
Bank credit to public sector                21.2       28.1       36.6       43.5       54.9       61.8       70.9      79.7      95.5    105.6
Bank credit to private sector               16.0       17.8       23.0       26.5       30.9       36.9      41.9       51.3      62.8      77.8
(percentages or index numbers)
Money and quasi money as S of GDP           29.5       31.5       34.6       36.7       39.0       38.3       37.0      35.1       40.1       38.7
Consumer price index (1969/70-100)         211.3      229.4      256.7      277.0      295.6      331.9     375.4      403.9      418.1      462.0
Annual percentage changes in:
Consumer price index                        23.6        8.6       11.9        7.9        6.7       12.3       13.1       7.6        3.5       10.5
Bank credit to public sector                   ..      32.5       30.2       18.8       26.2       12.6       14.7      12.4       19.8       10.6
Bank credit to private sector                 ..       11.2       29.2       15.2       16.6       19.4      13.5       22.4       22.4       23.9
a  Based on World Bank Atlas methodology and calculated at an average of 1980-82 prices and exchange rates.  All other
conversion  to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
Lb Provisional.
Ic  Projection for 1983184.  Doea not include unemployed labor force.
Id  Includes manufacturing, mining, construction and electricity and gas.
LI Consolidated revenues and expenditures of Federal and Provincial Governments (excluding Federal-Provincietl Government
transfers).
fl  Revised budget data.
J Excluding principal repayments of foreign loans. Capital expenditures as defined in governmeot budget include
certain current expenditures also.
th  Provisional.
Ii Monetary statiatics of Pakistan have been fully adjusted for demonetized notes, devaluation and revaluation of the
rupee, etc. aa from June 30, 1975. Data for 1974175 from State Bank sources are not strictly comparable with LMF
eatimates for earlier years.
Not applicable.
Not available.
March 1985



-34-
lag. 6 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                      MUCHiNDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979/80-1983/84)
19791B0  1980/8l  190l182  1982/83   1983/84                                    USS million         X
(USS million)
Exports of goods. NFS              2.955    3.461    3,052    3,416       3,439          Raw cotton                    315.3         11.9
Inports of goods. NFS            5J709    6.466    6J679    6 588   7J058                Cotton yarn                   214.7          8.1
Resource gap (deficit -           -2.754   -3.005   -3.627   -3,172    -3.619            Cotton cloth                  281.1         10.6
Rice                          417.9         15.8
Interest payment.                   -285      -357     -453      -421      -477          All other coonodities      1422.4          53.6
Workers  reuittancee               1.748    2,097    2,224    2,887       2,737            Total                     2,651.4        100.0
Other factor paynents (net)          151       274      321       195       359
Net transfers                         .          .       .          .        ..
Balance on current account        -1.140      -991   -1,535      -511    -1.000                   EXTERNAL DEbT. JUN  19N84
Direct foreign investment             ..
Net nLT borrowing                                                                                                               USI .illot
Disburseaents                    1.134       956    1,102    1,301      1,248
Amortization                      -310      -516     -492      -306      -569          Public debt, including guaranteed        9,890.4
Sub-total                          824       440      610       915       679          Non-guaranteed private debt le
Trenactions with IMF /a               78       315      358       413        -1            Total outatanding and disbursed        9,850.4
Otber items n.e.i. /b                600       546      318       285       142
Increase in reserves (-)            -362      -310      249   -1,102        180            DEST SERVICE RATIO FOR 1983184 ft
Gross reserves (end year) /c         748    1.058       809    1.911      1.731                                                        X
Petroleum imports Id                1.079    1.535    1,710    1.610      1.423          Public debt. including guaranteed           15.6
Petroleum exports Id                  178      126      194        77        40          Non-guaranteed private debt
Total                                  15.6
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                            IBRDJIDA LENDING (December 1983) (US$ million)
Tbrouth Nay 11. 1972                From May 12. 1972-Feb. 15. 1973                                                           TlRD       IDA
USSI - Rs 4.7619                            US$1 - Rs 11.00                           Outstanding and disbursed            350.7   1,144.7
Rs I - USS0.21                              Rs I - US$0.09                            Undisbureed                          197.0      617.2
Outstanding including undisbursed   547.7   1,761.9
From Feb. 16. 1973-Jan.    1982    From July 1981-June 1982 fg         From July 1592-June 1983 fjL       Fro. July 1983-June 1984 LL
uS$ 1 - Rs 9.90                       USSI - Rs 10.55                  US$I - Rs 12.75                    USS1 - Rs 13.50
Re  1 - USSO.10                       Rs I - USS0.095                  Rs 1 - US$0.078                    Rs I - V;50.074
ft  Including Trust Fund.
lb Including net short-term borrowing and errors and omissions.
/e Excluding gold recserves of about 1.8 million troy ounces.
Id Crude and derivatives.
ke  Non-guaranteed private debt service is negligible.
/f Ratio of actual debt service to exports of goods. factor and non-factor services; debt service includes IIF charges.
ft Effective January 8. 1982, the rupee is to be managed with reference to a weighted basket of currencies. The average
exchange rate shown ie vis-a-vis US$ for the period shown.
Not available.
March 1985



-35-
STATSU OF USK QCUP OPSEATIOE  in Du=TAM
A.            OFAThIUIT ar DAA LOIRE AND TD CI lllTA   (As of Sneet'er 30  19651 A
(903 millie")
Loan/t (Auet not of ceaeellatiana
Credit    FiLcal                                                              =,diA-
ftebaL    -Ini   Pupoea                                 a    21       M       kU
NineLqty-ebt lomn  and crdits fully disbursed lb    7SI.4  32.0  1,001.6* .
648       1976   IrrigatiLo  * Drainge (SLbairpur)    -              14.0      2.7
1366?     1977   Punjab Livestock Dewelopaet          -     10.0     -         2.S
754       1978   Salinity Control 4 3eclmtion         -              70.0    66.6
813       1978  Punjab ftt.   Agric. Dew.             -              12.5      3.7
877       19S9   Salinity Control & teel. (Merdaun    -              e0.0    49.4
892       1979   Primry Education                     -              10.0      3.5
922       1979   Bind Agricultural Zxtesion           -               9.0      4.2
968       1980   Third WAPD Power                     -              45.0      3.5
974       1990   Third Vighway                        -              50.0     11.9
1019      1980   PICIC lndustrLil Dav.loput           -              40.0      3.3
11091a    1931   Vocational Training                  -              25.0      7.3
11131A    1961   Dell lndnatriee                      -              30.0      0.3
1157La    1931   Crami Storage                        -              32.0    15.1
11MlS,   1961   Agricultural Eeearch                  -              24.0    15.0
11631A    1981   On-Farm Water Managment              -              41.0    12.2
11916d    1982  ladustrial Dew.lop.it (IDP 11)       -              30.0      3.0
2122      1982   Fourth Telecomunication              40.0           -        11.9
2172      1982   Fertiliser Idustry Rehabilitation   38.5           -        20.3
2247      1983   Rerwoir Maintenace Facilities        10.2           -        10.0
2305      1983   Agricultural Dew. CADS? *)           10.0           -         5.4
2324      1983   Fifth Sci Nortbhn CGa Pipelines    43.0             -        39.9
12391a    1982   Irrigation Systma labhbilitation    -               40.0    23.7
1243/e   1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. * Agr.       -              14.0    10.9
125611    1982   TecOnical Assistance                 -               7.0      2.9
12781a    1962   Fleventb h  ilway Project            -              50.0    36.0
13481    1983   Labore Urban Devlopoat                -              16.0    14.9
13501     19B3   Popation                             -              18.0    14.3
135511    1983   Coal Engineering                     -               7.0      6.2
1374LS    19B3   Karachi wacmr Supply                 -              25.0    20.4
137511    1983   Fourth Drainage                      -              65.0    62.0
138011    1963  Agricultural Deelopment (AMP 9)   -                  47.6    14.2
2218      19B3   Refiner 7Egignoring Project          12.0           -         S.8
2351      1984  Petrole   Eploration                  51.5           -        41.4
2374      1964   Secod Toot Oil and Cam Devlopaut 30.0               -        22.8
2380      1984   Industrial Investment Credit         50.0           -        44.7
143911    1964   Madnetrial Inweatant Credit          -              50.0    44.5
146111    1984    utegrated *ill Faruing Dvel_opmt  -                21.0    21.3
14801L    1984   Second Technical Aisidetnce          -               7.0      6.8
1487      1964   Comond Mater  Daniamt                -              46.5    46.0
1499      1964   Second 9Smll ldmutries               -              50.0    41.1
1532      1985   Left Rank Outfall Drais - Stage I   -              150.0   156.4
1533      19B5   Realchintan Agricultural Extencion   -               8.3      8.7
2499      1985  Fourth WAPnA Power                   100.0           -       100.0
1602L5.   1985   Second Primary Lduation              -              52.5    52.5
1603te    1985   Second On-Far. Water MWanagmnt       -              34.5    34.5
2552      1985   Enenry Sector LeOa                  178.0           -       178.0
2553      1985   Petroleum Resources Joint Venture    55.0           -        55.0
25561e    1985   Fifth  1APDA Power                  100.0           _       100.0
Total                                              1,499.6  42.0 2.202.9  1461.2
of which has bea  repaid                           501.1 J .6J    44.3
Total now outstanding                                998.5  37.4  2.158.6
Aummmt sold                 29.9
of wbich baa beon repaid   2-                             -- _-
Total now bald by Rauk and IDA4                      9iL.5 IZi 2.158.6
Total undisbursed                                    jjL3  -la    S2I.3  1.1.2
S1 ThI uta-tu of the projects listed in Fart A is described in a epareate report
on all BakJIDA financial projects in execution. whicb is updated twice yearly
ad circulated to the Executive Directors co April 30 and October 31.
k  Excludes, the disbursed portion of losu and credits wholly or partly for projects
in the former Eat Pkintmn which be mm bean taken  ewr by   ngladesb.
n *ot yet effective.
Jd  Prior to emcbge adjustmet.
Li  XDI  Credits under the 6th Replenis_t deominated in Sam.  The principal
is sbown in 1S$ equivalent at the tim  of negotiation. Disbursed _note are
comuted at the exchange rate applicable on the transaction dates. Undisbursed
anto are valued at the exchange rate appliceble on the date of this
statement.
f  By using tbe _mrket rate on dates of disbure_mete. the current principal
for Credit 1066-Pa  ad  Credit 1255-PAZ (both fully disbursed) is
842.5 and 177.S. respectively.



-36-
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMEN1S (as of SeDtember 30. 1985)
Fiscal                                              Amount  In US$   Million
Ye_r    Oblifor               Type of Business      Loan   Equitv    Total
1958     Steel Corp of         Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.         Products              0.63       i      0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles              0.75     --       0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.       Cement                5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-    PICIC                 Development
1969-                          Financing              -      0.52       0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles              1.84    0.11      1.95
1965-
1980-    Packages Ltd.         Paper Products       19.25    0.84      20.09
1982
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.             Paper                 5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.       Fertilizers            1.00    2.92      3.92
1979     Milkpak Ltd.          Food and Food
Processing            2.40    0.36      2.76
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock       Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.         Petrochemicals       29.00    2.04     31.04
1980     Pauji Foundation      Woven Polypropy-
lene bags            1.78      --       1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle Board        2.70     -        2.70
1981     Habib Arkady          Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.16      3.31
1982     Asbestos              Cement                4.02      -        4.02
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                  Petrochemicals      100.89    1.56    102.45
1985     National Dev.         Money and
Leasing Corp.         Capital Market.      4.13    0.37       4.50
Total Gross Commitments                   182.17   11.32    193.49
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales              133.05    0.38    133.43
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC         49.12   10.94      60.06
Undisbursed (including participants)      38.28    0.51      38.79



-37-                         Annex III
Table 1
SCARP TRANSITION PILOT PROJECT
Irritation O&M ExDenditures and Receipts
and Relative ImDortance of SCARP TWa
(For Puniab Province and Pakistan)
FY83    FY84    FY85
I.  O&M Expenditures (Rs million)
(a) Puniab Province
Surface System                          583     639      680
SCARP TVs                               701    _724      790
Total                          1,284   1,363   1,470
(b) Pakistan
Surface System                        1,055   1,172   1,284
SCARP TWs                               874     903      985
Total                          1,929   2,075   2,269
(c) Puniab as Z of Pakistan
Surface System                           55      55       53
SCARP TWs                                80      80       80
Total                              66      66      65
(d) SCARP O&M as X Total O&M
Punjab                                   55      53       54
Pakistan                                 45      44       43
II. Irrimation Receipts (Rs million)
(a) Puniab Province
Surface System                          519     594      611
SCARP TWs                               142     167      172
Total                            661      761     783
(b) Pakistan
Surface System                          759     859      897
SCARP TWs                               144     169      197
Total                            903   1.028   1.094
III. Receipts as X of O&K Expenditures
(a) Puniab
Surface System                          89      93       90
SCARF TWs                               20      23       22
Total                             51       56      53
(b) Pakistan
Surface System                          72      73       70
SCARP TWs                               16      19       20
Total                             47       50      48



-35-
JUbMMAM= III
Eli TuIIIU  M PIO   UECT                          Table (a)
rr awr _ -
(RS'o000)                                (E   U)
I TOa                                  I Toa
Z Fomlgn km                             Z FrIb   aw
Lord   Forwhi   Total   Emdu    CotB   Local  FImi  Total  Ecolam    Costs
At BECIRI, DTEtu    3T11                 Ope.S 7hm27 14551s1.            55      4   40. 4,9M5.2 3,1l1           S       4n
3. 1E  IIKIILS                          7Dff.l 1B3M.3 76,203.1           25     26  3,5221  P,19.0 4W4S0         25    2X
C.  uIIIM       II    IUNEDIE   U         44923.4  6m172.3 31,095.7      20      11  1t52.0  373.7 1907.7        20      11
3. UTUTU.EUPWI
1. INITOIIU I EI.LVATNU
PEWWME. 1UTM1                       4,244.4  1,265.7  5,510.1       23      2    260.    77.6   331O        23      2
EVIJMTIIN PTT                        3,U5.1  5447.4  962.5          60      3    221.3  334.2   5.6         60      3
Sih-Totl N111T    A E!VATlII           7,15.5  6713.1  14,572.6        4       5    482.2  4U1.    394.0       46      5
2. T7EIEM  ISTUE I T  fh              11,201.6  3,951.9 15UM3.         26      5    67.2  242.3  M9.0          26      5
3. F_DM  hUSSYT                        9,252.4  2d27.3 11v79.7         22      4    567.6  161.2   73.8        22      4
3b-Total DITITIIIIU lIEEItTff            25313.5 13s297.3 41610.8        32      14  1,737.6  315*8 2p,523       32    .14
Total    lE cuSm                          176235. 111815l.6 24470.7        40    100 104815.0 7,250.6 18,65.7      40    100
rmuical CmtinUntl                       13tW.7 13W67.0 27562.7           51      9    350.7  840.3 1691.0       S0       9
Pales Catsiuuaca                        37,435.9 24,0965 6152.4         39     21  1254.6  03.1 2,7             39      u
Totad PUEC1 CAS                           227,31.3 1599.M0 333,565.8       41    130 12M,.3 893.0 21,34.4          41    121
--                   -       -                -   -                   m_ -_



-.39-
ANNEX III
PAKISTAN                                          Table (b)
SCAN TRNUSITION PILOT MEJECT
Semrm  omit bu project Cumnut
(RS 'COt'
INSTITUTIONL I iELNtT
IRRIGATON I trNITORIB  EUIATION                                         hucal
EECTRICAL             MDIU    ---            -            TECHNICAL                        Cantlfamin
D1S1RITIlIN  FRIVBTE  IlOENT    PEIRTA    EW1JMTI   ASSISTMIIE I   MCT
SSENI   TUmIELLS    Ms           INiuTenIu     sTiAININ             ANiwew     Total     Z    Built
IVESTEnT COSTS
A. CIVIL EMS
1. ELECTRIFICATION INSTALLATIOI                    30,092.6        -            -            -         -            -          -  30,092.6  5.0 1*504.6
2. IRRIGATION MOS
Oam                                                   -         -      226d4B.6           -         -            -          -  22,48.6 15.0 3,397.3
LINING O  INOR CNALS                                  -         -       B1447.0           -         -            -          -   B447.0 15.0 1,267.1
Sub-Total IRRIEATI    S                                  -         -     31,95.7             -         -            -         -  31*0M.7 15.0 466 4.4
5mb-Tatal CIVIL MARKS                                3D,O92.6         -     3195.7             -         -            -          -  61.IU.3 10.1 6,169.0
3. FAME TV INUESTMENTS
1. FSRMER TIS                                            -7,90                  -           -          -            -         -  73,669.0  0.0      0.0
2. DRILLINf CDSTS FDR DIESEL THS                         -   2,534.1            -            -         -            -          -   2,534.1  10.0   253.4
Sub-Tota1 FAKER Tl IIWESTIENTS                              -  76233.1            -            -         -            -          -  76,203.1  0.3   253.4
C. ATERIALS AND EDUIPHENT
1. ELECTRIFICATION                                1158468.5        -            -           -          -            -         - 11548.5  15.0 17320.3
=' PEIFOANUCE NONITiRING                                 -         -            -        595.9         -            -         -      S15.8 10.0    51.6
3. TA/TRAINING                                           -         -            -            -         -      1,184.3          -   1,184.3 10.0   111.4
4. PROECT ADMINISTRAInON                                 -                                                          -      194.6     194.6 10.0    19.5
Sub-Total MATERIALS MD EDUPIEIT                     1159468.3         -           -         5B5.8        -       1W194.3    14.6 117,433.2 14.9 174516.8
D. VEHICLES
1. 434 VEHICLE                                           -         -            -      1I049.3         -      1.571.9   3m148.4   576.6  10.0   57.o
2. MOTORCYCLE                                            -         -            -         94.3         -         94.3       62.9     251.5 10-0    252
Sib-Totl UDVICLES                                           -         -           -       1,143.8        -       1,66.2    321.3   6,021.3 10.0   602.1
E. CDISULTIN6 ERVICES AND TRAINING
1. TA/TRAININIGCONSLTMTS                                 -         -            -           -          -     10o720.          -  10,720.5 10.0 19072.0
2. TM VATER NMT. TRAINING                                -         -            -           -          -        142.8          -     142.8 10.0    14.3
Sub-Total CONSULTING SERVICES PS TRAININ                    -         -           -            -         -      10,163.3         -  10,B63.3 10.0 1086.3
F. PROECT EVAUIATION STWDY CTRACT                           -         -            -           -   9S062.5            -          -   9P062.5 10.0   906.3
:--1 INVESTMENT COSTS                                 145,561.1  76,203.1     1,PO5.7       IP272.6   9062.5      13713.8    3,405.9 230,771.8  9.5 26533.9
REDJRREfT COSTS
A. PRMECT SALARIES -OD OETING EBEV ES
1  SALARES * ALLWMINCES                                -         -            -      3,232.7         -            -    5,743.7   8,976.3  6.2   556.6
2. OTHER OPERTINS EXPENSES                              -         -            -        547.B         -      1,444.7    2,730.1   4,722.6 10.0   472.3
sTotal PfWECT SALRIES AND OPERATING EXPESES                -         -           -       3,790.5        -       19444.7    9,473.9  13,698.9  7.5 1,029.1
I1 RECWIENT COSTS                                           -         -            -      3.730.5         -       1,444.7    8,473.8  13,6Y9.9  7.5 1,023.8
BASEINE CDSTS                                      145,561.1  76,203.1     31.095.7      5,510.1   9,062.5     15,15B.5   11,979.7 294,470.7  7.4 27562.7
Phsical Contiremies                                   139824.9     253.4      4,664.4       497.1      906.3     1515.9      900.8  27,562.7  0.0      0.0
Price Cotinsncies                                     26,635.7  18,394.4      7,128-8      1,131.B   2,431.2      3,364.4    29446.1  61,532.4  7.5 4,625.9
- MfOECT COSTS                                      191,O21.9  94,850.9     42.988.8      7,139.0  12.400.0     20,018.8   15,226.6 383,565.8  8.4 32,183.6
___5=     55=555_               _    _==   =5=55         _         =__        5- 5            _
TaS                                                   36,699.5   9,312.6      2,144.4       7B1.B         -        904.1    1.685.0  S,427.5 10.1 5,217.7
Foreign Exchane                                      105,475.1  24,029.2      9,764.9      1,593.2   7,57.2      5194.1    3,356.4 155,979.0 10.2 15,912.5



-40-
PAKISTAN                                          TablE  (c)
9CAR  IRAMEITION PILOT PROJECTTal                                       )
ProJect Coupuiuits bi Yh0r
Totals Includind Continssnclus               Totals Including Continduncgsn
IRS '000)                                   (us$ '000)
9U607    97/B   E89/    /90    Total           86/87   87/89  88/89   89/90   Total
au...w*  uumIuuauin =uu1a1uu muasausm uuuuuau   usuuaa   ma= mamsuna uusuuu  umuuuun
A. ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM           109,712.1  57v749.1 16,620.9 7i940,6 1911021.9  6r247.8 3t262.6   939.0   448.6 10.998.1
B. PRIVATE TUDENELLS                         10,048.1  30,107.3 36,062.1 18v633#4  94,950.9    57.5 1,701.0 29037.4 1,052.7  5,368.6
C. IRRIGATION I DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENT WORKS     9.026.2  16.731.2 14vM9.6 2.157.8 42,9999.    518.7  945.3   846.0   121.9 2431.9
B. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
1. MONITORING I EVALUATION
PERFORMANCE MONITORING                  3.240.4   1,206.8 1,217.2  1.394.6   7139.0    186.2   68.2    73.3    78.98   406.5
EVALUATION STUDY                        3,404.5  2,363.5  2,689.7  39942.3  12,400.0   195.7  133.5  152.0  222.7   703.9
Sub-Total MONITORING I EVALUIATION         6,644.8  3,570.3  3i987.0  5,336.9  191539.0    381.9  201.7  225.3   301.5  1,110.4
2. TECUICAL ASSISTANCE I TRAINING          6,734.4   5,078.6  4509o.3  3.716.6  20,038.9   387.0  286.9  254.8  210.0  1,138.7
3. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                      6,633.6  2,659.8 20959#1  3v074.0  15,226.6   381.2  150.3  161.5  173.7   866.7
Sub-Total INSTITUTIOML lEVELOPHENT           20,012.8  114308.7 11,355.4 12,127.5  54,804.4  1,150.2  638.9  641.5   685.2  3I115.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                           147,799.3 115.895.3 794012.0 40'859.3 383,565.8  Bt494.2 6,547.8 4,464.0 2,309.4 214814.4
.= -a: r~ _C:---= =  nr   i =n--Gn==G=    -u-                               i =5= m- G



-41-
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
SCARP TRANSITION PILOT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)     Time taken to prepare the project:
2-1/2 years
(b)     Agency which prepared the project:
Government of Pakistan and Government of Punjab,
assisted by consultants
5c)     Date of first mission to consider the project:
May 1983
Cd)     Date of departure of appraisal mission:
June 1985
Ce)     Date of completion of negotiations:
March 17, 1986
tf)     Planned date of effectiveness:
August 1986
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a)     Government of Punjab to implement the elements
of the project policy/incentives package in a
manner and within a timeframe satisfactory to
the Association (para. 54); and
(b)     Operational Action Plan to be reviewed
annually and, as necessary, amended in
consultation with the Association Cpara. 58).



-42-
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
The following would be additional conditions of effectiveness:
(i)   approval by ECNEC of the PC-1 document for the
project (para. 42);
(ii)   establishment of the Project Management Office,
Provincial Policy Committee, and Project Area
Coordinating Committee (para. 55); and
(iii)   signing of a Memorandum of Understanding in
form and substance satisfactory to the
Association (para. 58).



P A K I S T A N
SCARP TRANSITION PILOT PROJECT
PROJECT AREA
KHANQAH DOGRAN BLOCK
D   AALCCASACCS 10                        ID IN-                        NAA^AZi                   SI            AITN       ,
-   bAIN  (ANAI  +, 2 C\ IPZN 9 ( C INDIA~  1N 
1110   All ~       ~               ~               ~              ~              0 
-Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
~~~~  TO~~~~~~~~O
AITIOADS ~        ~~~~      ~    ~ ~~~~~~~ N/Z                        05 ,  \
0   "                                                          AS ASS        /,,   ..:,         , '''.             \\C
Zt L~~~~~~SOLS55.. AL\ S          ^       rA\
JaNC ~ ~    ~    ~    ( IRN7^NU am        D      eD ,,         g        %K
\                                                                            CD  1 , 1     w el /;s 
tI.EE                   \      \   /         e    e          tl-     kQ- m       /         e          xw             X(DA^
\      e s t m            l   ^  '   v     m    / C D     D           o
u                  X        ~ ~          4        m S /OD 
: A.d_                ;      (        u     m                                X        mAe           S 



P A K I S T A N
SCARP TRANSITION PILOT PROJECT
ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION
_       _   II IA FEEDER LASS WITH GONOLUGTORS  ITATIZASAN                                                 C       I
OP-ARIOU                                                                   -WIZ-TA
"A RPRESSTINO GROUPS OF PRIVATE TUr.WELL.
0m0   ELECTSICATIT OLLA-: E.  S A
A{ TOWNESIILLAGIS                                    A7    .; *   
- -- - DISTRICT SOUNVART                ;; Z            -   | -, :    -
TO EE MOSTLr                  0
M550 .. TOR
It                                                                                              0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
V ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      ; AEm   3A;E,,                                   ___________



IBRD 19341
r                                                             i,-                                     U. S.S.R.
PAKISTAN                                          I              S.      , R
SCARPS IN FRESH AND SALINE GROUNDWATER AREAS                                        ,.1INA
COMPLETED AND UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                 K  /  *-------                -
FRESH GROUNDWATER AREAS:                                          ct/,i
________ Completed                                              L     /.
|.L 1' 1 Under Construction                                      $t               ,,.
SALINE GROUNDWATER AREAS:                                                                    Ap. J  i
Completed                                                 Np W              5      L.,woICcnirma
Under Construction                                         CAP........... .. .a
A-A> !CRP Madohn  ,t,   afYarunbod
-  -_ -    Drain                                     _  Pes hA 4aw                       d JAMAflU
Rivers                                                Ad IV                       AND
*       Notional copitol                               S( i-. AI   lpindi0    I  BA
*       Provinciol copitals                   *ISJMR.  A                                          r-
o       Selected citiesand villages          (               /                       -
Provinciol boundaries              C                     '..                 o .        -
--*    Internationol boundaries                                                           Guiranwal
Sjr  AFGHANIST Nj  I..AX/ outRe l4 AIl  1''
SC ARP                    hr
/    __5 AFGHANISTAN                           r.v'I                                   p
(   *uel'a        Dera Gbo;.i  M0ultanfrah                        I   s    "
\.  .*  ._...,.o...er"                                          '~                            SCARF yffi f0 doab Sod w.
SCAR AM Pm o-d Abbo...
-2^' > ~~~~~~~~B A I U C H /S TA N Scxu ARPg                k~                    U.f Ponrd 'L,
Khuzdar rt
a                         ^orE o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Es Kha:.Y.-
ISLAMIC  REP.                                                       SAFP K                           I N  D I A
OF :RAN _j
r.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t ~ a . *$,, t-'; -]
;i                                   W E.&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bsih   j
r                                     sO":gE mS   Nur~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ttill Drni
e- am or T..*' gro Sw*
2*_                                                                                                      n.'A NW- 'ft., a ew)
7                                             a U.. n en, -we j  ff.
L--j                                          P.' ' . *. -nn  S"  -n 1   1 1
I?D  2~0  3~0  4T)  f                           hnh  Fc Cw.iaa
o       100     200      300     4010     500                                                             VW Po~   SM o.v
KILOMETERS                                                                                       f       at
OCTOBER 1985



- ----- --



