CREDIT NUMBER 1693 PAK
WAPDA Project Agreement
(SCARP Transition Pilot Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF PAKISTAN
Dated                                , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1693 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1986, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIAHON (the Association) and WATER
AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF PAKISTAN (WAPDA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eight million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 8,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that WAPDA
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement; and
(B) part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to WAPDA
on the terms and conditions mutually satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association; and
WHEREAS WAPDA, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, except
that the term "Project" means Part B of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) WAPDA declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out


﻿-2-
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project;
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, WAPDA shall carry out the Project in accordance
with:
(i) the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to the Development Credit Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement among the Borrower, Punjab, WAPDA and
the Association; and
(ii) an Operational Action Plan acceptable to the Asso-
ciation, as such Operational Action Plan may be
reviewed annually and amended, as necessary, by
agreement among the Borrower, Punjab, WAPDA and
the Association.
(c) WAPDA shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special account in the National Bank of
Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion. Deposits into, and payments out of, such Special Account
shall be made ia accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, and works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. WAPDA shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the WAPDA
Project Agreement.
Section  2.04. (a) WAPDA    shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations


﻿-3-
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) WAPDA shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by WAPDA of its obligations under
this Agreement.
Section 2.05. WAPDA shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, adequate funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the operation and maintenance of
the electrification facilities provided under the Project.
Section 2.06. WAPDA shall, in accordance with existing
policy, recover from the beneficiaries any cost in excess of
Rs 30,000 (FY 86 constant prices) per TW of providing them with
electrical connections under the Project.
ARTICLE III
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) WAPDA shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition in respect of the Project.
(b) WAPDA shall:
(i)  have   its  accounts   and   financial   statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and its Special Account
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, through the PMO, as
soon as available, but in any case not later than
nine (9) months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reason-
ably requested; and


﻿(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, WAPDA shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and                 .
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿-5-
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of WAPDA thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 30 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b)  If  the Development   Credit Agreement    terminates  in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in para-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly
notify WAPDA of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-6-
For WAPDA:
Water and Power Development Authority
WAPDA House
Lahore, Pakistan
Cable address:                    Telex:
WAPDA                              44869 WAPDA PK
Lahore
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of WAPDA, or by WAPDA on behalf of the Bor-
rower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or
executed by the Chairman, WAPDA or such other person or persons
as he shall designate in writing, and he shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By4101
Regional Vice President
South Asia
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
OF PAKISTAN
ByAutore                        R
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   L L1.   day of
198.
FOR SECRETARY


