'CREDIT NUMBER 1693 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(SCARP Transition Pilot Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1693 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                02                    , 1986,
between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN acting by its President
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) Parts A.2, C and D of the Project will be carried out
by the Province of Punjab (Punjab) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to Punjab part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement; and
(C) Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Bor-
rower's Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Bor-
rower will make available to WAPDA the other part of the proceeds
of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and Punjab (the Punjab Project Agreement), and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and WAPDA
(the WAPDA Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein


﻿-2-
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Punjab Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and Punjab of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all sched-
ules and agreements supplemental to the Punjab Project Agreement;
(b) "WAPDA Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and WAPDA of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all sched-
ules and agreements supplemental to the WAPDA Project Agreement;
(c) "Project Agreements" mean collectively the Punjab
Project Agreement and the WAPDA Project Agreement;
(d) "Punjab Special Account" means the Special Account
which Punjab shall open and maintain pursuant to Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement a-nd Section 2.01 (c) of the Punjab Project
Agreement;
(e) "WAPDA Special Account" means the Special Account which
WAPDA shall open and maintain pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement and Section 2.01 (c) of the WAPDA Project Agree-
ment;
(f) "Special Accounts" mean collectively the Punjab Special
Account and the WAPDA Special Account;
(g)  "WAPDA Act" means the Pakistan Water and Power Develop-
ment Authority Act, 1958, as amended, and all regulations framed
thereunder;
(h) "ADBP" means the Agricultural Development Bank of
Pakistan established by the Borrower under the Agricultural
Development Bank Ordinance, 1961, as amended;
(i) "SCARP I" means the first Salinity Control and Reclama-
tion Project located in Punjab;
(j) "TW" means a tubewell;
(k) "SCARP TW" means a tubewell included in a Salinity
Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP); and
(1) "Rs" or "Rupees" means the currency of the Borrower.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01.   The  Association  agrees  to  lend   to  the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eight million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 8,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts C.2 and B
of the Project for which they are respectively responsible, cause
Punjab and WAPDA to open and maintain in dollars special accounts
in the National Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;   (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in


﻿-4-
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payabl' semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing October 1, 1996, and ending April 1,
2036. Each installment to and includi-g the installment payable
on April 1, 2006 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Chairman, Planning and Development Board
of Punjab, and the Chairman of WAPDA are designated as repre-
sentatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Condi-
tions in respect of the parts of the Project for which they are
respectively responsible.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall cause Punjab and WAPDA to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreements all the
obligations of Punjab and WAPDA therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,


﻿-5-
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appro-
priate to enable Punjab and WAPDA to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall cause ADBP to provide the credit
facilities required to finance the TWs to be installed under
Part A.1 of the Project on a priority basis, shall take and cause
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable ADBP to provide such credit facilities, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with the provision of such credit facilities.
(c) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs
(a) and (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall cause Punjab,
WAPDA and ADBP to carry out the Project in accordance with:
(i)  the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement among the Borrower,
Punjab, WAPDA and the Association; and
(ii) an Operational Action Plan acceptable to the Asso-
ciation, as such Operational Action Plan may be
reviewed on an annual basis, and amended, as
necessary, by agreement among the Borrower, Pun-
jab, WAPDA and the Association.
(d)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Punjab and WAPDA, under terms and conditions which
shall be mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, to be utili-ed as follows:
(i) Lt Punjab, in an amount equivalent to about
SDR 2,600,000 for the purposes of Parts C, D
and E of the Project; and
(ii)  by  WAPDA, in    an  amount  equivalent   to  about
SDR 6,100,000 for the purposes of Part B of the
Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds


﻿-6-
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to in-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the parts of the Project for which Punjab and WAPDA
are respectively responsible shall be carried out by Punjab and
WAPDA pursuant to Sections 2.03 of the Project Agreements.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that, in accordance
with existing policy, any cost in excess of Rs 30,000 (FY 86
constant prices) per TW of providing electrical connections under
Part B of the Project will be recovered from the beneficiaries.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) Punjab and/or WAPDA shall have failed to perform any of
their respective obligations under the Project Agreements.
(b) As a result of events which have. occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
Punjab and/or WAPDA will be able to perform their obligations
under the Project Agreements.
(c) The WAPDA Act shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of WAPDA to perform any of its obligations
under the WAPDA Project Agreement.
(d)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of WAPDA or for the suspension of its operations.


﻿-7-
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b)  the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Executive Committee of the National Economic Coun-
cil shall have approved the PC-1 document with respect to the
Project;
(b) the Project Management Office (PMO), the Project Area
Coordination Committee (PACC) and the Provincial Policy Committee
(PPC), all as referred to in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4, respectively,
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement shall have been established; and
(c) the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) referred to in
paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement shall have been
signed.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreements
have been duly authorized or ratified by Punjab and WAPDA, and
are legally binding upon Punjab and WAPDA, respectively, in
accordance with their terms.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic
Affairs Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary,
Deputy Secretary, or Section Officer in the Economic Affairs
Division of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:                         Telex:
ECONOMIC                            ECD IV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States o. America
Cable address;                         Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
/i               Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
/By
/                  Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil Works
(a) Part B of            480,000            30%
the Project
(b) Part C.1 of          320,000            65%
the Project
(c) Part C.2 of          710,000            90%
the Project
(materials only
excluding
cement)
(2) Equipment and
materials
(a) Part B of            4,670,000          100% of foreign
the Project                            expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 70%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(b) Part D (ii)             80,000          70%
of the Project


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(3)  Consultants'             610,000            100%
services and
training
(4) Proiect evalu-            520,000            100%
ation study
(5) Unallocated             1,310,000
TOTAL             8v700,0OO
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project, which is to be carried out in
the Khanqah Dogran block of the SCARP I area (the Project Area),
is to develop a replicable package of technical and institutional
project components for: (a) implementing government policy of
transferring to the private sector the main responsibility for
FGW pumpage in a representative SCARP area in order to meet more
effectively the irrigation and drainage requirements of the area;
(b) confirming that farmers, particularly small farmers, would be
able and willing to participate in the privatization of ground-
water development; and (c) increasing agricultural production and
farm incomes through improved conjunctive use of surface and
groundwater supplies.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Private Tubewell Installation
1.   Installation  of  electrically-powered  and   diesel-driven,
small capacity privately-owned tubewells to replace the existing
SCARP TWs in FGW areas.
2.   Carrying out of drilling works for diesel-driven TWs.
Part B:   Electricity Distribution System Improvements
Provision and installation of equipment and materials for
construction of new, and reconditioning of existing, 11-kV trans-
mission lines; 11-ky circuit breakers and accessories; distribu-
tion transformers and low-tension electrical connections for
privately installed electrically-powered TWs; and power load
management for TWs.
Part C:   Irrigation and Drainage Improvements
1.   Lining of minor canals and smaller distributaries.
2.   Renovation of water courses, including      installation  of
permanent outlets and construction of culverts, check/drop struc-
tures and a limited number of buffalo baths.


﻿- 13 -
Part D:   Project Management
Provision of (i) project management and support staff and
(ii) office and other equipment for use in carrying out and
monitoring the Project.
Part E:   Technical Assistance and Training
1.   Provision of consultants' services to assist in carrying out
the Project.
2.   Provision of local institutional or other services to moni-
tor and evaluate the Project.
3.   Provision of training for agricultural field assistants in
TW water management.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.


﻿- 14-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Pakistan
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works under Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project (for
Part C.2, materials only excluding cement) may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, adver-
tised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Construction and installation of the electrification facili-
ties under Part B of the Project may be carried out by WAPDA
through force account.
3.   Office and other equipment, estimated to cost up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $200,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three sup-
pliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with pro-
cedures acceptable to the Association.


﻿-715 -
Part D.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for civil works or civil
works materials (other than cement) estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more, and each contract for electrification
equipment and materials, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Associa-
tion pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of such
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Sections 3.01 (c) of the Project
Agreements.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist Punjab and WAPDA in carrying out the
Project, Punjab shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the


﻿- 16 -
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Execut-
ing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 17 7
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.   Institutional Arrangements
1.   Project Agencies
(a) Punjab shall have overall responsibility for Project
implementation and coordination.
(b) Specifically, and subject to the arrangements set forth
in this Schedule, responsibility for Project implementation shall
be assigned as follows:
(i) for provision of credit facilities required under
Part A.1 of the Project, to ADBP;
(ii)  for Part B of the Project, to WAPDA (Power Wing);
and
(iii) for Parts A.2, C, D and E of the Project, to
Punjab.
2.   Project Management Office
(a) For day-to-day coordination of the Project, a Project
Management Office (PMO) shall be established within Punjab's
Department of Irrigation not later than the Effective Date.
(b) The PMO shall be headed by a Project Director of
Superintending Engineer rank who shall be assisted by the Project
consultants and by three Deputy Project Directors and their
staff and supporting personnel as follows: a Deputy Project
Director (Electrification) and his staff from WAPDA for purposes
of Part B of the Project; a Deputy Project Director responsible
for project monitoring and project accounts; and a Deputy Project
Director responsible for survey, planning and field implementa-
tion. The PMO shall be equipped and provided with such other
staff as necessary.
(c) The PMO shall, inter alia: (i) coordinate the project
activities and programs to be carried out by the various agencies
and departments of Punjab, by WAPDA, and by ADBP, including the
tubewell-to-tubewell survey; (ii) prepare consolidated quarterly


﻿- 18 -
and annual project reports as well as a project completion
report, and submit all such reports to the Association within 60
days of the end of each relevant reporting period; (iii) maintain
consolidated project accounts and submit these to the Associa-
tion; (iv) monitor the Special Accounts; (v) coordinate and
arrange (as necessary) procurement of works, equipment and mate-
rials; (vi) cause the completed project works to meet agreed
criteria and specifications; and (vii, arrange for       technical
assistance and training, including the selection, employment
and supervision of consultants for project implementation and
monitoring and evaluation.
3.   Project Area Coordination Committee
(a) For coordination of the Project at the Project Area
level, a Project Area Coordination Committee (PACC) shall be
established by Punjab not later than the Effective Date.
(b) The PAC. shall be chaired by the Chief Engineer
(Faisalabad) of Punjab's Department of Irrigation and shall
include as members the Project Director (who shall also be the
secretary), the Deputy Commissioner or his nominee, the concerned
Branch Managers of ADBP, the Deputy Project Director (Electri-
fication), the Area Coordinator for the On-Farm Water Management
(OFWM) Directorate General of Punjab's Department of Agriculture,
the Area Coordinator for the Agricultural Extension Services
Directorate General of Punjab's Department of Agriculture, the
Superintending Engineer for the SCARP I Project, and farmer
representatives.
(c) The PACC shall meet at least once every three months,
and more frequently if so required.
4.   Provincial Policy Committee
(a) For coordination of the Project at the provincial level
and providing overall policy guidance and supervision, a Pro-
vincial Policy Committee (PPC) shall be established by Punjab not
later than the Effective Date.
(b) The PPC shall be chaired by the Chairman of Punjab's
Planning and Development Board and shall include as members the
Secretary of Punjab's Department of Irrigation (who shall also
be the secretary), the Secretaries of the Departments of Agri-
culture and Finance, the Executive Director/Director General


﻿- 19 -
(Credit Division) of ADBP, and the Chief Engineer of WAPDA's
Rural Electrification Organization.
(c) The PPC shall meet at least once every six months, and
more frequently if so required.
5.   Memorandum of Understanding. Detailed arrangements for the
coordination, execution and funding of the various Project
components shall be set out in a memorandum of understanding to
be signed by Punjab, ADBP and WAPDA not later than the Effective
Date, such memorandum to be in form and substance satisfactory to
the Association.
6.   Water Users Associations
(a) As a condition of obtaining financial assistance for
the purposes of Part C.2 of the Project, farmers shall be
required to form Water Users Associations (WUAs) at the outlet
command level.
(b) Such Water Users Associations shall be responsible
primarily for (i) providing the labor required for renovation of
water-courses under Part C.2 of the Project, and (ii) operation
and maintenance of the watercourses so renovated. The WUAs shall
also be encouraged to assume specific responsibilities, inter
alia, for (iii) facilitating the distribution of non-water
inputs; (iv) advising on water allocation and distribution at the
outlet command level; (v) undertaking OFWM work on watercourse
branches; and (vi) providing and maintaining field drains at the
outlet command level.
B.   Provision of Training and Vehicles
7.   Training Program. Training under Part E.3 of the Project
shall be carried out at Punjab's OFWM Training Institute in
accordance with a training program satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
8.   Provision of Vehicles. Vehicles required for the Project
shall be made available not later than July 1, 1986.
C.   Monitoring and Evaluation
10. Monitoring. The PMO, acting in coordination with WAPDA's
SCARPS   Monitoring  Organization,   shall   be  responsible   for


﻿- 20 -
monitoring the key physical parameters of the Project. For this
purpose, the PMO may arrange for any special studies to be
carried out as necessary under the Project.
11. Evaluation. Punjab's Planning and Development Board, acting
in coordination with the PMO, shall be responsible for engaging
the services of a suitable local institution to evaluate the
Project, within a time-frame, and in accordance with terms of
reference and under a contract, satisfactory to the Association.
D.   Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
12. Responsibility for the O&M of the Project facilities shall
be assigned as follows:
(a) to the owners, for the O&M of the private tubewells
installed under Part A.1 of the Project;
(b) to WAPDA, for the O&M of the electrification facilities
provided under Part B of the Project;
(c) to Punjab's Department of Irrigation, for the O&M of
the minor canals and distributaries lined under Part C.1 of the
Project; and
(d) to the WUAs, for the O&M of the watercourses renovated
under Part C.2 of the Project.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (a)
and (1) (c) and (2) (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means, in respect of
Punjab, an amount equivalent to SDR 120,000 to be withdrawn from
the Credit Account and deposited in the Punjab Special Account,
and, in respect of WAPDA, an amount equivalent to SDR 1,740,000
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
WAPDA Special Account, all pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for elig-
ible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the relevant Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish such Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by Punjab or
WAPDA, as the case may be, for a deposit or deposits which add up
to the aggregate amount of the relevant Authorized Allocation,
the Association shall, on behalf of Punjab or WAPDA, as the case
may be, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
relevant Special Account such amount or amounts as Punjab or
WAPDA, as the case may be, shall have requested.
(b) Punjab or WAPDA, as the case may be,       shall furnish
to the Association requests for replenishment of the relevant


﻿- 22 -
Special Account at such intervals as       the Association shall
specify. On the basis of such requests, the Association shall
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into such Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments
made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by Punjab or WAPDA, as the case may
be, out of the relevant Special Account for which Punjab or
WAPDA, as the case may be, requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, Punjab or WAPDA, as the case
may be, shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time
of such request, such documents and other evidence as the
Association shall reasonably request, showing that such payment
was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into a Special Account shall be made
by the Association when either of the following situations first
arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
Punjab or WAPDA, as the case may be, from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the relevant eligible Categories, minus
the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Sec-
tion 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the related parts of the Project, shall be
equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the
relevant Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
relevant eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the


﻿- 23 -
Association shall specify by notice to Punjab or WAPDA, as the
case may be. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the relevant
Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of a Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, Punjab or WAPDA,
as the case may be, shall, promptly upon notice from the Associa-
tion deposit into such Special Account (or, if the Association
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. No further deposit by the Association into such
Special Account shall be made until Punjab or WAPDA, as the case
may be, has made such deposit or refund.
(b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
Punjab or WAPDA, as the case may be, shall, promptly upon notice
from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount for crediting to the Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198 4.
FOR SECRETARY


