Docume
The Worl
FOR OFFICIAL
Report No. 9653
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1105-SO)
JUNE 14, 1991
Eastern Africa Department
Population & Human Resources Division
This document bas a restricted distriWbon and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oflichi duties. Its contents may not othenwise be disdosed without World Bank outhorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Somali Shilling (So. Sh.)
At Appraisal 1980
US$ 1.00          -           So. Sh. 6.295
US$ 0.1589        -           6. Sh. 1.00
SDR 1.00          -           US$ 1.28
Annual Averages Value of Somali Shillings for US$
1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987      1988    1989
6.29   12.40  15.40  22.00  38.25  69.79  119.56   242.59  347.49
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
A'Y        -      Academic Year
CSUF       -      California State University in Fresno
DANIDA     -      Danish Development Agency
GOS        -      Government of Somalia
GTZ        -      German Agency for Technical Cooperation
ILO        -      International Labor Office
Lafole     -      Lafole College of Education
MLSA       -      Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
MOEC       -      Ministry of Education and Culture
MOI        -      Ministry of Interior
NTC        -      Nomadic Training Center
PIU        -      Project Implementation Unit
PTTI       -      Primary Teacher Training Institute
PTTRC      -      Primary Teacher Training Resource Center
RMESA      -      Regional Mission for Eastern and Southern Africa
SIDAM      -      Somali Institute for Development Administration
and Management
SOMTAD     -      Somali Training and Development
SY         -      School Year
UPE        -      Universal Primary Education
USAID      -      U.S. Agency for International Development



THE WORLD BANK                FOR oMCUL USE ONLY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
O°ice of DirectswCeneral
Opmatinns Evaluation
June 14, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report - Somalia
Fourth Education Project (Credit 1105-SO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report - Somalia Fourth Education Project (Credit
1105-SO)", prepared by the Africa Regional Office, with Part II of the
report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been
made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted 'tribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(Credit ilOS-SO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
PROJECT EVALUATION SUMMARY  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .............  .     iii
PART I:    PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . .
Project Backgrrund . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           .           1
Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . .            2
Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . .            3
Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            5
Project Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            9
IDA Performance  ....  .  .  .     .  .  .    . . . . . . . .  .    .  11
Borrower Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           12
Project Documentation axi) Data ...   .....  .        .  .  .    .  13
Lessons Learned  .. ...  . ... . . . . . . . . .                   13
PART II    A.  ASSSMENTS BY BORROWER  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              15
Background  . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . .   .           15
Certain Economic and Policy Assumptions
that Failed to Hold  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           20
Project Formulation and Implementation  . . . . . .           22
Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  . .             23
General Secondary Education . . . . . . . . . . . .           24
Teacher Training  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           30
SIDAM . . .  .  ...  .  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  ....  .. .  35
Physical Facilities .       ...............              .    39
Costs and Financing       ................ .  . ..  .  .  .   .  43
Project Administration and Management . . . . . . .           52
B.   SYNOPSIS OF PART II PREPARED B  IDA. . . . . . ..             55
;
PART III:  PROFILE OF THE PROJECT
3.1  Related Bank Credits  . . . . . . . .        . .. . . .       58
3.2  Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           60
3.3  Project Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           62
3.4  Project Implementation  . . . .  .    . . . .  . . .          65
3.5  Project Costs . . . . . . . . . .   . . . .   . . . .   .     68
3.6  Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           69
3.7  Project Results.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           70
3.8  Studies.  . . o . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           72
3.9  Status of Covenants.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           76
3.10 Use of Bank Resources: Missions . . . . . . . . . .           80
MAP
| T  document h  R restricted dictribution and rr v be a 0I bv ri ante only in the porfrry nre



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(Credit 1105-SO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fourth Education
Project in Somalia, for which Credit 1105-SO in the amount of SDR 8 million (US$
10.2 million equivalent) was approved on February 24, 1981.  The Credit was
closed on March 31, 1989, two years behind schedule. It was nor fully disbursed
and the undisbursed balance of SDR 26,951.96 was canceled on October 20, 1989.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Educational Financing Division of
UNESCO and the Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and
-1), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the final IDA supervision
mission in March/April 1989 and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower, and internal IDA memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT CONMLETION REPORT
SOMALIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(Credit 1105-SO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.        The objectives of the Somalia Fourth Education Project (Cr. 1105-SO)
were to (a) improve the quality of education by providing facilities and
improving programs for pre-service and in-service training of primary and
secondary teachers; (b) provide more equitable access to secondary education in
raral areas and generally improve the teaching of science at the secondary level
by constructing new schools and providing science equipment; (c) alleviate
shortages of managerial and administrative personnel by strengthening the Somali
Institute of Development Administration and Management (SIDAM); and (d)
strengthen educational planning and pre-investment work by providing technical
assistance.
ImRlementation Experience
2.         The experience of implementation was generally positive with respect
to the physical aspects of construction, in large measure due to the effective
performance of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). Severe shortages of local
building materials delayed completion of construction in some cases by about two
years (PCR para. 1.13, 1.14). More serious delays occurred, however, in the
procurement of furniture, equipment and vehicles, where the PIU underestimated
the time required for preparation of itemized lists and bidding documents. As
a result, many completed buildings remained empty and unused for several years,
and deteriorated (PCR para. 1.16).
3.        Implementation of the educational aspects of the project was less
successful.  First, high local inflation which raised construction costs, and             U
shortages of local funds, caused major reallocations of project funds to the
civil works category, at the expense of in-service teacher training for which
financing was reduced by about 70 percent (PCR para. 1.17). Second, inadequate
preparation of several educational components, such as the provision of science
kits for primary teachers (PCR para. 1.19, 2.107) - an item which was eventually
canceled - and ineffective supervision by Bank staff, particularly of the teacher
training and upgrading programs (PCR para. 1.20-1.22 and 2.106), were serious
shortcomings.   Third, the PIU was not well-staffed to provide educational
expertine to the project on a continuing basis (PCR para. 1.37, 2.20, 2.110).



- iv -
Results
4.        The main objective of improving quality of education through better
trained teachers has met with very limited success. Shortages of local funds and
delays in the completion of project-financed teacher resource centers meant that
only 54 percent of 6,200 primary teachers targeted for upgrading were trained.
Of these, 80 percent went on for further training as secondary teachers, leaving
only about 10 percent of the targeted group (650 teachers) in the primary system
at project completion (PCR para. 1.19).  Science kits (13 percent of project
costs), which would have helped new primary teachers in their professior., were
canceled due to a of lack of agreement over their content and resulting
procurement delays (PCR para. 1.19, 2.107).
5.        Secondary teacher training, especially in science subjects, was even
less successful (PCR para. 2.03). Laboratory equipment and materials delivered
to the Lafole teacher training college remained largely unused as instructors,
who as recent graduates of the same college were essentially unqualified, were
not shown how to use the new equipment. Without maintenance, this equipment
rapidly deteriorated and became unusable (PCR para. 2.38, 2.41). In addition,
heavy overcrowding overstretched the college's resources and significantly
reduced the quality of the teacher training programs.   Also, the lack of
educational supervision by the PIU and the Bank, which could have corrected some
of these problems, contributed to the failure of this component (PCR para. 2.20,
2.21, 2.110).
6.        The objective of providing more equitable access to secondary education
was achieved. Facilities were constructed and equipment delivered, as envisaged
at appraisal. Enrollments initially exceeded appraisal estimates, in several
cases by 50 percent (1984 data), but dropped below design capacity in 1988 as
a result of the economic downturn (PCR para. 1.23). However, improvements in
secondary science teaching (project-financed science laboratories and equipment)
were only marginal as most teachers were unfamiliar with the new equipment and
were not trained under the project, and many laboratories could not function due
to a lack of water or electricity (PCR para. 2.25).
7.        The objective of improving SIDAM's capacity to provide administration
and management training to public and private sector workers was fully achieved
(PCR para. 2.109).  SIDAM is fully and competently staffed and is providing
practical and relevant courses for the business and government community.   The
PCR reports that the output of trained accountants, administrators and managers
is having a noticeable impact on business practices in Somalia, particularly with
respect to the introduction of computers and better administration practices (PCR
para. 2.58 - 2.62). Importantly, SIDAM generates about 20 percent of its
operating budget by charging user fees, contributing to its financial viability
and indepind'nce (PCR para. 1.24).
Sustainabilitv
8.        The sustainability of project-supported institutions is in jeopardy.
In the macro context, the education sector is grossly underfinanced at all levels



- v -
except university, which is assisted by Italy with a generous bilateral program,
and the system is in a general state of decline. Entirely inadequate recurrent
budget provisions have caused some project-financed facilities to remain non-
operational (teacher resource centers, for example), while buildings and
equipment are deteriorating rapidly for lack of maintenance (PCR para. 1.29).
Textbooks and instructional materials are practically non-existent and underpaid
teachers are leaving the system in large numbers for more remunerative
employment. As a result, student enrollments are declining precipitously, and
project-supported institutions have become oeverely under-enrolled (PCR para.
1.23, tables under 2.34).  The issue of underfinanced education is being tackled
in the macro-economic context of public expenditure reviews and policy framework
discussions. It has also been addressed in the context of the recently approved
Education Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2111-SO), through strong conditionalities
aimed at assuring adequate sector financing, with minimum levels of allocations
under broad categories for each level of education for the period 1990-94.
9.        SIDAM has acquired some degree of financial independence because of its
ability to charge user fees.  However, its operating budget provided by the
Government is not adequate to run its programs and maintain its facilities. In
addition SIDAM, like other educational establishments, continues to depend
heavily on external assistance (PCR para. 1.28).
Findings and Lessons Learned
10.       Although most of the planned project activities were undertaken, the
ultimate objective of improving the quality of education at the primary and
secondary levels has not been achieved. Three reasons for this poor perform#.ace
are being advancedt (a) the Government failed to provide adequate funding for the
education sector in general and for the specific project; (b) both IDA and P1U
supervision of the educational aspects of project implementation were inadequate;
and (c) the monitoring and reporting system, especially for progress achieved in
attaining educational objectives, which would have allowed corrective actions to
be taken in time, was inadequate
11.       The PCR suggests (throughout the text) that the following lessons can
be drawn from this experience:
(a)       The requirements for project preparation in Somalia are quite severe.
To improve the chances for successful implementation, all aspects of
the project (physical, institutional and educational) should be worked
out with Somali staff in detail during project preparation. Precise
guidelines and procedures for implementation should be established
prior to credit effectiveness and annual work programs prepared and
regularly reviewed during implementation;
(b)       IDA supervision should be strengthened, particularly with respect to
educational matters, and the Bank should be prepared, with Government
agreement, to adjust the project's scope, content and financing
arrangements if project objectives clearly cannot be met. An internal



- vi -
review system i8 needed when projects are systematically rated "1" in
countries where implementation is likely to be difficult;
(c)       Local supervision capacity should also be strengthened.   Strict
requirements for project monitoring and evaluation, including the
educational aspects, should be established and workable mechanism. put
in place to satisfy this requirement. In this connection, the project
implementation unit should not be without a full-time education
specialist or access to one such person within the MOEC;
(d)       Education projects should explicitly provide for training of local
professional staff (educators, planners, facill tee specialists) and
technical assistance should be required to tocus on local staff
development and not only on day-to-day implementation issues;
(e)       Recurrent financing problems such as those encountered in Somalia
cannot be solved exclusively by pro-'ect conditionalities and covenants
and should be addressed within the framework of macroeconomic policy
dialogue; and
(f)       A project should not be designed until objective information is
available about the performance of the prev4ous one, obtained through
either a PCR or a thorough mid-term review.   Unfortunately the
problems regarding the sustainability of education projects in
Somalia, highlighted in two successive PCRs lSecond Education Project
Cr. 511-SO issued on June 24, 1983; (Report No. 4573) and Third
Education Project Cr. 738-SO issued on March 1, 1988; (Report No.
7137)1 could not be used for the design of the Fourth Education
Project mainly because, the reports were initiated and issued after
the appraisal of the project.   But the exrerience of the First
Education Project which was available in 1977, would have been quite
relevant for addressing some of the shortcomings experienced in the
supervision of the Fourth Project. (For example reporting on sector
developments affecting attainment of project targets; more frequent
use of educators, careful monitoring of equipment procurement, planned
vinits to project institutions during the construction period). It
could not be ascertained why these lessons were not heeded by the
appraisal team. However, preparation of the Fifth project (Somalia
Education Rehabilitation Project Cr. 2111-SO) took full account of the
above experiences at both micro and macro-levels.



PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
SQMMJA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(Credit 1105-SO)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Identity
Project Name s   Fourth Education Project
Credit No.   :    1105-SO
RVP Unit      :   Africa
Country       :   Somali Democratic Republic
Sector        :   Population and Human Resources
Sub-Sector        Education
Proiect Backaround
1.01      Project Generation:  Since after the 1969 revolution, the Government
of Somalia (GOS) has pursued an educational policy which accords priority to
basic education and improved manpower training. IDA supported Government efforts
through three education projects; focused on basic, secondary and technical
education, teacher and agricultural/fishery training; and the education of the
nomadic population. Towards the mid-1970's, in an effort to quicken the pace of
attaining universal primary education, the GOS took exceptionally bold policy
initiatives i.e. reducing the primary education cycle from eight years to six and
that of primary teacher training from two years to one and undertook a national
literacy campaign (1975/76). These policy steps enabled the country's literacy
rate to rise from 52 to 502 and its primary enrolment ratio, from 132 to 342.
The quantitative expansion however took its toll on the qualitative measures for
education.   During appraisal of the Fourth Education Project in 1979, the
majority of primary and secondary school teachers were insufficiently trained,
and large numbers of inadequately prepared primary sLnool completers were
swelling enrollments in secondary schools.
1.02       Proiect Implementation:  However, due to the deteriorating economy a
major decline in the educational landscape has taken place throughout the
eighties, which also influenced the implementation of this project. The public
expenditure on educati.ai has gone down drastically from 4.10 percent of the GDP
in 1978 to 0.6 percent of the GDP in 1988, with public expenditures themselves
decreasing from 47 4 perceyit to 18.1 percent of the GDP between 1978 and 1988.
However, it may be fair to note that Somalia had always had one of the world's
lowest set of indicat_ .e on financing education.  The share of the national
budget for education was approximately 7 percent between 1971-74, and about 11
percent between 1975-81. By 1988-89, this low share has declined further to 2.5
percent of the budget, indicating an appalling lack of government interest in and
regard for education. But the appraisal mission of 1979, ignored the question



of low educational financing.   It is also unclear why the subsequent IDA
supervision missions continued to overlook the question of the education budget
and recommend measures to arrest the decline in education share of the budget.
As a consequence o. low educational financing, the ?rimary school enrolment has
been declining and in 1988 the gross enrolment rate was only about 10, lower
than before the national literacy campaign and the lowest in Africa.   The
permanent primary teaching force has shrunk to just 57% of its 1978/79 level.
The expansioin of secondary education had been such that it was thrice and five
times itz V978/79 level in 1980/81 and 1983184 respectively, but has since been
decliz,ing at the rate of 1OZ annually. Such an imminent collapse cf the economy
was unfortunately not foreseen yet at the time of project preparation and
appraisal (1979-1980).
Proiect Objectives anti DescriRtion
1.03      Obiec.ives: The Somalia Fourth Education Project was designed to: (i)
improve the qualit, and efficiency of teaching in primary and secondary schools
by upgrading facilities for the pre-service and in-service training of teachers;
(ii) provide more equitable opportunities for secondary education to those rural
areas devoid of secondary schools; and (iii) to alleviate the acute shortage of
managers, accountants, office workers and related skilled personnel by helping
to provide facilities and technical assistance for appropriate long-term
planning, including a study to assist the Government to develop a more efficient
civil service system.
Cgn0onents:
1.04      The components of the project were:
(a)     Primary Teacher Trainina Resource Centers (PTTRCs).
(i)    Construction  of  additional  facilities  (a teaching
materials production unit and storage) and provision of
furniture  and  equipment  to  fiv.e existing  general
secondary schools to soirve as resource centers for the
summer in-service trau.ning programs; and
(ii)   provision for 3,000 kits containing visual aids and
simple science teaching apparatus to primary schools to
which the program pari:icipants would return; and
(iii) incremental operating costs for the in-service
training program for a five year period covering
stipends, per diem allowances and consumables.
(b)     Lafole College of Educationt. Provision of science and visual
aids  equipment  and  refurbishing  and  re-equipping  of
laboratories and classroomsl acquisition of printing machinery
and paper for the textbook production center; provision of 2
staff-years of specialist services (for four persons, each for



six months) to assist and advise the Dean on administration,
general  management   and  associated   academic  matters,
maintenance of the College and catering arrangements for
boarding students;
(c)     General secondary schools.   Construction,  furnishing and
equipping of four new schoolo, and additions of scienco
laboratories and furniture, equipment and library books to ten
existing general secondary schools;
(d)     Somali Institute of Develooment Administration and Z4anagament
(SIDAM). Provision for 20 staff-years of technical assistance
for a reputable single institute or commercial college to
provide    the   core   of   experienced   teachers   and
commercial/administrative educators as well as to carry out
a survey at SIDAM to determine the most appropriate type of
expertise required during and beyond the project;
(e)     Pre-investment, Evaluation  and  Civil  Service Emglovment
Studies. Provision for 4 staff-years of technical assistance
distributed as followss (i) a two-man team for six months to
prepare a technical/vocational plan; (ii) a two-man team for
three months for the preparation of the management/ commercial
plant (iii) a three-man team for four months for an in-depth
evaluation of the experimental centers for the education and
training of nomads! and (iv) 18 staff-months for the
development of a program for public employment and personnel
policies; and
(f)     Protect Administration.   Provision for 3.5 man-years of
technical assistance for a civil engineer; construction of
office space and office equipment for the project unit.
1.05      Amendments:  Amendments were made to the Credit Agreement twice: (i)
to accommodate the reallocation of credit proceeds (May 7, 1987) and (ii) to
extend the Closing Date from March 31, 1987 to March 31, 1989.
Proiect Desian and OrMauization
1.06      The project included components each of which represented a different
education sub-sector. There were primary teacher training, secondary teacher
training, secondary school expansion and upgrading, management/commercial
education, vocational-technical education, education for the nomads and a macro-
governmental concern on the reform of the civil service.  At the MOEC, the
project went by the title "Multi-Purpose Education Project".
1.07      The original objective (Initial Project Brief 10/11178) of the project
was the introduction oi quality improvements by consolidating the achievements
in primary education and adult literacy mainly.  But quite surprisingly, the
project design did not give more support to the still fragile achievement of the



- 4 -
GOS in relation to UPE, particularly as pertained to the mission's own findings
of wide regional disparities in the provision of primary education and poor
learning environments in both physical terms and in instructional materials. In
terms of quality, primary teacher training was a definite priority. However, the
specific goal for the training, which in the GOS proposal was to raise the
educational level of primary school teachers to the equivalent of Grade 12 as
well as to strengthen their teaching ability, performance was not specified at
appraisal. Recognizing that the teachers in need of training were those who had
only one year of teacher preparation instead of the regular two years, the
provision for two months of summer training in lieu of a year in the teachers
college had appeared as a crash extension program and not sufficiently long to
improve the quality of practicing teachers. The component did not provide for
training of course tutors nor for the monitoring and evaluation of the trainees
to determine how effective the training programs had been.
1.08      The project. provided for the purchase of educational kits to be given
to schools that sent their teachers for in-service training. Conceptually, this
could have been a boost to teaching efficiency and quality. But this component
was presented to the IDA only during the appraisal of the project.   The
preparation was weak and failed to provide a clear indication as to the
instructional objectives and composition of the science kits in the context of
the curriculum and available teaching materials.  The appraisal mission also
failed to assess the viability of this innovative approach, especially in
relation to managerial, custodial and sustainability considerations. The program
had no strong constituency among the educators of the country.
1.09      Secondary education plans were confused.  On one hand, the Government,
becoming aware that the existing system was producing secondary school graduates
in excess of projected requirements of manpower, decided to bring down the
transition rate of the students completing primary schools to general secondary
education, from 53 percent to 24 percent, and to redirezt the majority of the
remaining primary school leavers to vocational and technical secondary education.
On the other hand, the project supported the Government's policy of expansion by
iucreasing the enrollment capacity of 10 existing secondary schools and
establishing 4 new schools in the settlement areas based on considerations of
equity. Both policies were at cross purposes. By the time of appraisal, it may
be noted, the policy of reducing the transition rate was already yielding to
parental and community pressures, and the transition rate from primary to
secondary level, meanwhile, reached a peak rate of 71 percent.   It is also
interesting to note that as the appraisal team was projecting a three fold
increase in secondary enrollment over the period 1980-1990 based on equity and
manpower requirements, right during the appraisal year (1981) the enrollments
were already three times, and by the end of another three years (1984) about five
times the 1979 level.
1.10      A clear innovation in the project design was the inclusion for funding
under one and the same project of both a pre-investment study component for
management/commercial education and the implementation of the early phases of the
investment program resulting from the study. This was the case for SIDAH. This
allowed for the momentum between the preparation of the plan and the



- 5 -
implementation of that plan to be maintained. The scope of assistance Was well
thought out and the desirable feature of recruiting a single institute to provide
expert services is noteworthy.
1.11      The secondary teacher training component suffered from vagueness.  It
did not take into account a major weakness in the course offering at Lafole
College of Education, i.e. its focus on the production of liberal arts graduates
majoring in a subject and not on the production of subject teachers per se.
Thus, the nature and amount of technical assistance did not match the real needs.
1.12      The civil service study component seemed unrelated to the rest of the
project and appeared in the proposed project just prior to Credit Negotiations
and at the initiative of the Bank Group. This provoked some discussions within
the Bank.   The justification advanced for it was that the manner in which
products of the educational system are employed in the civil service is relevant
to the sector, even if it is indirectly linked to the philosophy of an
educational project. The fact was that the Bank Group quite correctly felt the
need for such a study on an issue critical for Somalia's development and for Bank
Group lending.
Proiect Implementation
1.13      The project had a 24 month time overrun, mainly due to a country-wide
shortage of building materials. The first delivery of building materials was
cleared from port 23 months after Credit Effectiveness and another nine months
lapsed before contractors were in possession of building materials on the work
sites. The PIU successfully organized the procurement and storage of building
materials.   The storage facilities in general have been adequate and well
organized.   Careful attention should be given to the future expansion of
warehouse facilities on the compound site owned by the PIU, in order to deal
adequately with large concentrations of imported building materials.
1.14      The actual constructed areas were 25Z above appraisal estimates.  The
original sites of the four new secondary schools which were in the new settlement
areas, had been changed as a result of assistance provided by other foreign
donors. How these sites were chosen by the Government and to what level of
detail IDA examined the new locations prior to approval could not be fully
established from available records and from the PCR of the Borrower. Two of the
four new schools visited by the mission, Lafole Secondary and Harerey, turned out
be existing schools occupying temporary accommodation until facilities were built
for them by the project. Lafole Secondary School serves basically the children
of the staff of the Lafole College of Education while Marerey Secondary School
caters to the chilarci of workers in a sugar plant.  The quality of construction
in the new schools ranged from poor to adequate.  In this sense, the importation
of building materials by the PIU has to be seen as a mixed blessing. While
considerable burden was lifted from the inexperienced small contractors in
importing materials, there was a need for control on quality of workmanship for
these inexperienced contractors. They required constant supervision and guidance
from the PIU. Making provision for such close supervision and guidance, has
strained the limited resources of the PIU. Bidding procedures on future projects



-6-
should provide for consideration of those experienced contractors only with the
ability and willingness to import their own materials, subject to the control of
PIU. Supervision of the construction of the secondary schools was adequately
carried out by the Design and Construction Service in the PIU.
1.15      Through a successful policy of asseembling furniture on site, the PIU
was able to reduce damage in transit to a minimum. However, only one teem has
been available in the PIU for assembly of furniture to all project sites,
necessitating more than one trip to each location as a result of consignments
delivered in batches.  Considerable improvement in logistics is required for
future projects in the delivery and assembly of furniture to schools on a
nationwide basis to reduce transport costs and implementation delays.   The
physical condition of the newly-provided laboratories has deteriorated to a level
which is incompatible with the new furniture and equipment provided for use (e.g.
collapsing ceilings, lack of electricity and water supply). In the majority of
project schools visited, laboratories were not as yet fully operational either
because equipment was still to be assembled or because of lack of water and
electricity supply (and, in all cases, gas). Greater scrutiny than at present
is required at the stage of designing a project for the allocation of technical
facilities on the basis of not only educational demand but also the regular
availability of basic utilities.   The impact of project rehabilitation has
already been reduced after a lapse of some three years since implementation, for
lack of regular maintenance. As a result, mjost project schools are already in
need of another rehabilitation. The project should have taken into account the
Government's lack of interest for earmarking financial resources in sustaining
the level of maintenance required and the Development Credit Agreement should
have included a covenant requiring the Borrower to supply such funding.
1.16      The length of time required for the preparation and approval of lists
of procurement and the delivery of furniture, equipment and vehicles was
underestimated. Completed buildings therefore remained empty for as long as two
years before the delivery and assembly of furniture and equipment, and
educational programs meant to benefit from the facilities, e.g. teacher training
at the PTTRCs, had to go ahead without them.  In some project schools, the
environmental setting has deteriorated badly and is in need of improvements prior
to the installation of furniture and equipment.   In a number of instances,
furniture and equipment will not be delivered in full until six months after the
closing of the Credit Account.
1.17      During appraisal, the total cost of the project was estimated at US$
13 million. However, during the implementation of the project, due to local
circumstances - the deteriorating economy, fiscal mismanagement, and high
inflation, the value of the US$ rose steadily against the local currency. This,
because of higher purchasing power in US$ of local costs, led to a reduction of
the actual project cost to about US$11 million. The Credit covered 82 percent
of the total actual project costs, compared to 78.5 percent estimated during
appraisal, and the balance was contributed by the Somali Government. But in
terms of Somali shillings, the contribution of the Government was, in nominal
terms, about six times the level estimated at appraisal, over the project, from
So. Shs. 17.6 to So. Shs. 102.8 million. The total cost of physical facilities



remained close to appraisal estimates when calculated in terms of the US$, but
increased by more than 800% in Somali Shillings.   As a result of spiraling
inflation, building costs continued to remain high in local currency, while
prices when compared in US$ have remained stable over the last ten years. The
increase in 2 staff years of technical assistance bridged the financing gap
between the end of the CSUF contract and the start of the USAID project at SIDAM.
The contracts of the project engineer and accountant in the PIU were extended to
meet reporting requirements for project completion.   In contrast, in-service
training was reduced by 722.  As a result, a smaller number of teachers were
trained, which in turn was due to the unavailability of local funds (Para. 1.18).
1.18      The project was plagued with a low level of recurrent financing for
most of its life. No teacher training programs took place for two summers. In
one fiscal year (1985), USAID provided funding to enable the Government to meet
its financing obligations under the project.   In the economic situation of
Somalia, the design of the project and the timely review of project costs with
a view to Credit financing of a higher proportion of local costs such as in
teacher-training might have ensured more teachers trained.
1.19      No educational kits were provided to schools.   This project item,
considerable as it was, with an allocation of 13% of project costs, suffered from
a lack of adequate preparation. It appeared only as an idea at appraisal and,
therefore, no efforts went into linking it with the curriculum of the primary
education cycle, which was being extended (from six to eight years) and revised,
or to build upon the capacity of a local institution, e.g. the Curriculum
Development Center, to design a kit suitable for local production, hence assuring
sustainability.  Because of a weak design, procurement action on this item had
to be deferred. The first delay was needed to coordinate the list and related
specifications with the requirements of a revised curriculum.  The second delay
was needed to resolve issues on how the kits would be distributed, utilized and
administratively controlled.   Eventually,  some of the related funds were
reallocated to meet cost increases on other items and the component was canceled,
and the rest of the funds shifted to the purchase of administrative equipment,
furniture and vehicles for the Mogadishu Primary Teacher Training Institute and
the Hargeisa PTTI.  The Hargeisa PTTI, however, ceased operations in 1988/89
after only one year of operation. Well conceived kits could have motivated new
graduates of the in-service teacher training program in the performance of their
job, thus contributing to more effective teaching/learning.
1.20      The  three-year  secondary  teacher-training  course  at  Lafole was
introduced promptly in 1983/84 academic year, but one year later this was
replaced by a four-year course. Neither the three- nor the four-year course
adequately addressed the weaknesses cited at appraisal vis-a-vis science teaching
(methods) and practice teaching in the two-year accelerated course. What was
added to the curriculum was liberal arts subjects.  Practice teaching was
allocated three months in the three-year course and six months in the four-year
course.   The allocation for subject area specializations  (major and minor
subjects) has been as it was in the two-year course and the courses were not
geared to subject teaching.   It was unfortunate that the teacher education



expert, intended to assist the College in strengthening its curriculum, was not
recruited.
Proiect Results
1.21      The objective of the project of improving the quality and efficiency
of teaching in primary and secondary education through better trained teachers
has met with very limited success. Only 54S (3,291) of targeted primary school
teachers were  trained,  and  indications  from the IOEC's Teacher Training
Department are that at least 80X of them would have won scholarships to enter
Lafole College of Education. That leaves only 658 in primary teaching, assuming
no one leaves the service for other reasons. A major reason for this phenomenon
is the policy that strongly links a career in secondary school teaching with
experience in teaching in primary schools. Effectively, it is a case of primary
school teaching being no more than a stepping stone to becoming a secondary
school teacher. The project reinforces this connection in accepting that one of
the principal attractions of the in-service training program was that the
resulting better qualifications would facilitate a scholarship to Lafole or
possibly even a teaching position in a secondary school.
1.22      With respect to secondary teacher training, the expected improvement
from a longer teacher training course, lengthened from two to three to four years
within the life of the project, is at best doubtful. While practice teaching of
three months was re-introduced in the three-year course and increased to six
months in the four year course, the overall focus of the teacher-training course
has been the production of subject specialists as distinguished from subject
teachers. Professional and methods courses are almost totally absent from the
curriculum.
1.23      The objective of providing more equitable schooling opportunities at
the secondary education level was largely achieved. In nearly all, except two
project schools, enrollments in fact exceeded overall capacity, by nearly 501 in
1983/84 when general secondary enrollments nationwide reached their peak of
53,591 students. Female enrolment increased considerably from 231 in 1981/82 to
272 in 1983/84 and 31% in 1986/87. Enrolment levels have been on the decline
since then, however, and in 1987/88 was about 67Z of its 1983/84 size. In five
out of seven project schools visited (1989) enrollments were as low as 50X below
designed capacity and student/teacher ratios were averaging 10:1. The reason
advanced for this has been the very low numbers of primary school students
passing the Standard 8 leaving examinations, in turn caused by the general
deterioration of the quality of teaching in primary education, and the overall
decline of primary enrollments. In 1981, 272,000 students, representing about
30 percent of the primary school age population, were enrolled. But by 1988, the
primary enrollments had fallen by 58 percent to about 159,000 representing less
than 10 percent of the primary age group.
1.24      The objective of improving SIDAM's efficiency in running its courses
and thereby alleviating the critical shortage of well-trained managerial and
clerical personnel has been remarkably successful.   The teaching program
equivalent to a master's degree, offered in business administration, was of



- 9 -
international standard.  This has been completed by three cohorts cor,rising 99
students.   Eighteen more  students have been trained  for the third year
accountancy course under the California State University in Fresn, (CSUF)
contract; two more cohorts (total 125 students) completed the accountancy course
using the Somali faculty. The number of MBA graduates who joined as full-time
SIDAM facul;y has been few but most graduates have helped meet SIDAM's staff
requirements by accepting part-time teaching and administration positions. In
this sense, the CSUF/SIDAM program did not only provide well-qualified staff to
the vital sectors of the country's economy but also formed a major resource to
enable the effective continuance of the program. A total of 44 short courses and
workshops were attended by 1,572 people from the business and government
community.  A most significant development has been with respect to SIDAM's
financial viability and independence - since 1984/85 it has succeeded in charging
fees for accounting and clerical (typing) students and this revenue now accounts
for 20Z of its budget.
1.25      A long-term plan for the development of vocational-technical education
was prepared and became the basis for a UNDP-assisted project. The development
plan for commercial/management education revolved around the development of
SIDAM.  The evaluation report on the Nomadic Training Centers (NTC) was not
finalized and as such did not reach the policymakers. The NTCs are reported to
have ceased operations.
1.26      The  report  on  the  civil  service  was  well  received  and  its
recommendations have been accepted in principle. Government task forces were set
up to draw up an implementation program but their recommendations have remained
with the Government decision makers. There is greater consciousness about the
need to reform the civil service but major actions have yet to be taken with
respect  to  organization  and  management;  personnel  administration  and
compensation; and staffing levels.  Training needs of civil service personnel
have partially been addressed through the USAID-assisted Somali Training and
Development (SONTAD)/SIDAM project.
Proiect Sustainabilitv
1.27      None of the five Primary Teacher Training Resource Centers has been
made operational. There is no clear plan on how the centers would be managed and
what year-round program would be organized to make full use of the facilities and
equipment.   The locations of three centers (at Dusamareb, Sheikh Bashir and
Qoryoley) do not correspond with those of the decentralized pre-service-cum-in-
service training centers (PTTIs) to be established by the MOEC, which are in
Galkayo, Hargeisa and Mogadishu or Marka.  Since the furniture and equipment
intended for these centers are yet to be delivered, consideration would be given
to channeling these to the desired PTTI sites in order to serve the original
purpose for the provisions, which is that of inter-regional teacher training.
1.28      The foundation on which primary school training and teaching are built
- as a stepping stone to secondary school training and teaching - is inimical to
the interest of primary education. The stability of the teaching force has to
be assured if the sub-sector is to remain viable.   The now MOEC policy of



- 10 -
recruiting Grade 12 leavers for PTTI training should go a long way in putting
primary school teaching on par with secondary school teaching. The connection
between primary and secondary school teaching however, i.e., that after two years
of teaching in primary schools the new PTTI graduates would automatically attend
training at Lafole, needs to be reviewed. The conditions of the primary school
teaching service would have to be vastly improved if Grade 12 leavers are to be
attracted to the program and to commit a good part of their working life to a
primary school teaching career.  Unless teacher attrition of this variety is
considerably minimized, the sub-sector would have more and more untrained
teachers (in 1987/88); for instance two out of five teachers were national
volunteers) requiring massive outlays for training.
1.29      The policy package, developed with the Ministry of Education and
Culture (MOEC), in conjunction with the recently approved Somali Education
Rehabilitation Project, has corrected the above problems, mainly related to
primary teachers career development and conditions of teaching service.  The
gross under-utilization of individual project school capacities would be looked
into and consideration given to alternative uses of idle facilities, such as by
accommodating intermediate grade (Grades five to eight)  enrollments.   The
renovated facilities are already showing signs of deterioration for lack of
maintenance over the last four to five years.
1.30      Lafole's facilities are in need of substantial maintenance.   Its
secondary teacher training course will need to focus on producing graduates with
not just content/subject knowledge but methods/professional skills as well, in
the context of the Somali secondary school situation.
1.31      SIDAM has acquired some degree of financial independence because of its
ability to charge user fees, but the recurrent budget it receives from the
Government is inadequate to operate its academic programs at a reasonable
standard and to maintain and upgrade its facilities.   It has been able to
stabilize its faculty, with reduced turnover/attrition, but this is largely
because of the infusion of funds from the SONTAD Project and to some extent from
the topping up of faculty salaries, using its revenues from user fees -- as
intended.
1.32      The vocational/technical education plan which was prepared under the
project is partially being implemented with support from UNDP, but to a more
limited extent than called for by the ten-point reform plan proposed for the sub-
sector. Donor support needs to be gathered particularly for the upgrading of
physical facilities and the equipping of workshops so as to make crafts training
and technical education attractive and viable as post-primary options -- assuming
sustainable financing for operating costs becomes available.
1.33      The Nomadic Training Centers (NTCs) have ceased to be operational.
This means no program now exists to address the educational needs of the nomadic
population. There is little equity in a situation where more than half of the
population who happen to be the main producers of the country's wealth are not
getting their proportional share of educational opportunities. The Bank Group
has tried to grapple with providing educational opportunity for Nomads in two of



- 11 -
the Somalia education projects.   Both efforts have been dismal failure.
Obviously the NTCs had been the wrong choice of technology for providing
education to the Nomads. Therefore it is extremely important that before any
intervention is manned, the whole spectrum of nomadic culture should have been
fully analysed, and the educational interventions that are consistent with the
nomadic practices and values should have been introduced.
1.34      The civil service study has generated greater awareness on the
weakneases.   A far greater commitment however is required in the part of
Government to effect the much needed reforms.  This topic is now one of the
priorities being considered under a proposed Public Sector Management project.
IDA Perforpance
1.35      The monitoring of project implementation was less than satisfactory.
However, monitoring of the physical aspects of implementation of this project
received comparatively more attention over the monitoring of the educational
aspects of the project. As an illustrative case, the implementation of the four-
year teacher training course at Lafole was unknown to IDA until two years after
its introduction; so had the fact that secondary enrollments had swelled far
beyond appraisal estimates within one year of appraisal and Credit Effectiveness.
Another instance is the absence from any supervision report of the circumstance
facing in-service training, namely that for two consecutive summers no training
took place for lack of government budget. The supervision missions from IDA
should have brought to the notice of the policy planners the need to review and
revisit the project objectives and revise the IDA financing structure to match
with emerging training and educational needs of the project. This was not done,
perhaps due to lack of staff resources from IDA. The supervision of the Fourth
Education Project was often combined with the Third Education Project, both being
multipurpose education projects.   But only one staff, usually an architect
devoted an average one week for each mission.  The tendency of such limited
missions was therefore to concentrate on the physical and financial aspects of
the project. For a period of nearly three years, the same IDA staff from RNESA
who supervised the project, routinely rated its performance as problem free.
This is a case where less reliance on staff continuity and a possible staff
change might have had the advantage of a fresh look at the discovery and
treatment of the serious problems facing the project.  The allocation of IDA
staff time for this project was also inadequate both in amount  and in
specialization.
1.36      The efforts of the supervision team of personally negotiating with
DANIDA (in Denmark), on two occasions, at MOEC's request, so as to recruit a
teacher education expert for Lafole were commendable.  Unfortunately, no expert
came and neither the records of the Association nor those in the PIU could
provide any clarification. Teacher education experts are not exactly in short
supply around the world and institutions other than DANIDA could well have
provided an expert to Lafole if a broader search had been envisaged from the very
start. As the project was drawing closer to completion dates, the allocation of
two staff-years was directed to augment the CSUF/SIDAM contract.



- 12 -
1.37      The PIU did not have a project educator for most of the project life
and IDA had not seemed to notice. Consequently, the problems and issues facing
the educational components of the project had not been fully analyzed and
consolidated.  Particularly in a multi-purpose project such as this, the PIU
should not be without a Project Educator. There is always the possibility of
subordinating attention to the educational aspects of a project, especially when
the civil works and procurement activities are in full swing, unless an educator
is there to see that the educational programs are implemented properly and that
the physical works and equipment provisions are well synchronized with his/her
area of concern.   The quarterly progress reports focusing on civil works,
procurement and disbursements did not always address educational aspects relating
to each project component.
1.38      Project implementation in Somalia over the past three credits has had
to face problems of low recurrent funding. This project was not any different.
A set of general education indicators could be developed as part of quarterly
reporting by MOEC or the work of supervision missions, which would enable IDA and
HOEC to monitor and evaluate shifts in the Government's education policies and
the behavior of such variables as enrolment, teachers and educational
expenditures as to their implications for the effective implementation and
sustainability of education projects.
Borrower Performance
1.39      Considering the difficult economic and financial situation of the
country, project implementation overall was carried out by the PIU adequately and
competently. The different units in the MOEC responsible for implementing each
of the educational components were reporting separately to the Minister regarding
their portion of the project as well as their regular or non-project activities.
In the absence of a Project Educator in the PIU or other mechanism, to monitor,
coordinate and consolidate the progress in the attainment of education targets,
particularly in the critical years of this project's implementation (1982-85),
there was a failure to draw attention to problems and issues in a timely fashion.
The communication lines between IDA and MOEC were less than adequate insofar as
repeated requests by the former for explanations as to the increase of the
teacher training course from three to four years at Lafole had not been met.
Similarly, several IDA requests for information on the Government's action
program with respect to the recommendations of the civil service study were met
with official silence.
1.40      The achievement of project objectives depended on relatively stable
education policies. Otherwise, as happened in this project, a two-month training
program for primary school teachers intended to upgrade the qualifications of
teachers to Grade 10 level had become anachronistic with the introduction of a
new policy raising primary school teacher's qualifications to Grade 12 plus two
years of PTTI training, even as teachers were still being trained under the old
policy. The long-term viability of the primary education sector would require
a firmer policy foundation.



_ 13 -
Pro1ct Documn*tation -an  Data
1.41      The major problem encountered in project completion has been the lack
of readily available data on what has been accomplished under the Project in
terms of its educational objectives.   Future projects should incorporate a
monitoring and evaluation design which would specify the expected outcomes of the
project, the indicators of achievement and the data support.
Lessons Learned
1.,2      The broad lessons are identified in the project evaluation summary.
But issues which are more specific to this project have also emerged.   The
experience in this project points to following specific lessons:
The PIU should not be without a Project Educator (or access to one in
the MOEC) and progress reports should have separate sections on the
monitoring and evaluation of educational objectives on the
integration/synchronization    between    educational    and
construction/equipment schedules;
*   The need for an occasional independent review of project rated
"problem free" in countries known for implementation difficulties;
*   The impact of the project depends on stable educational policies;
frequent policy shifts suggest the need for better planning so as to
ensure long-term viability of the educational investments. Changes to
educational structure (which can be quite costly) should be viewed
vith particular caution;
* SCloser monitoring of results of project-supported studies is required
and greater attention is needed to prepare follow up implementation
plans including financing;
*   The provision of funding for a pre-investment study as well as for the
initial phase of the development plan emerging from such a study
within the same project, as in the successful case of SIDAM, is worth
replicating provided that the necessary safeguards to appraise the
quality of the proposals are built into the project conditionality,
and appropriate supervision staff time can be devoted to such review;
and
*   Since new teacher training schemes need high levels of incremental
recurrent financing, projects should provide for such financing on a
declining basis where there are major problems of public finance.



- 15 -
PART II: ASSESS@RLT B BORROWER
Backrround
2.01      Prior IDA involvements in Somali's education were associated vith the
writing of a script for Somalia education were associated with the writing of E
script for Somali language and the adoption in 1973 of Somali as the official
state language and the medium of instruction in schools. Following the adoption
of this policy, two successive mass literacy campaigns, the first for the urban
populations and the second for the entire rural population were, respectively,
launched in the scholastic years of 1973/74 and 1974-75. An enormous process
of revising the curricula, school text-books and other reading materials and
their rewriting in Somali were also unleashed. Moreover, new education policies
encompassing the provision of free and universal primary education, extension of
basic and relevant education to the nomads and mass literacy to the adult
population were to set the guiding strategy of education from there on.
2.02      IDA assistance for Somali Education Projects prior to this Fourth
Education Project was particularly sought by the Somali Government so as to
secure inputs for the realization of the above quoted policy intervention.
2.03      Specifically, these credits were used in expanding physical facilities
and opportunities of basic and primary education through the expansion of
printing and publishing capacities of the country, curricula and text book
writing capacities, the capability of the Somali language as a modern instrument
of promoting and disseminating literacy and scientific culture and above all the
expansion of teachers training facilities.  The subsequent results of these
teachers training facilities. The subsequent results of these efforts were the
obvious expansion of all levels of formal schooling. In the process, however,
the quality of education at all levels seems to have been sacrificed. This was
particularly serious in the area of teacher production where course duration of
the former 3 years academic program of the College of Education of Lafole was
reduced to a 2 year program and teaching practice was abandoned altogether. As
regards the primary teachers training, the usual course duration of 2 ye%rs was
replaced with a one year program.
2.04      For both cases, the role of in-service training was under estimated and
almost neglected. In the light of this obvious neglect of quality, the focus of
this Fourth Education Project was on the enhancement of the quality of education.
Overview
2.05      The Fourth Education Project was in a sense determined by the goals of
the Development Plans of 1974-1978 and 1979-1981. During the time of the First
Project, Somalia pursued a policy of scientific socialism, emphasizing
egalitarianism and rapid economic and social transformation of its improvised
society which officially consisted of 60% nomadic pastoralists, 20S
agriculturists, and 20S urban dwellers. A central objective of that policy Was



- 16 -
the improvement of the living condition of the majority of the population.
Towards this end, emphasis was laid upon the principle of self-reliance.
2.06      The plan comprised an amalgam of projects that gave priority to food
production, rural development, mineral exploration and manufacturing. However,
as a result of delays and failure of planned investment funds, increased
inflation, and the 1975 drought, wnich devastated livestock and crop production,
the implementation rate of the FYDP was reduced to 602.
In 1979 the Government adopted a three-year development plan (1979-81)
which, in addition to the continuation of the economic sector projects, has given
due emphasis to the social development programs that attached special priority
to the improvement of the quality of education.
Beset by shortages of skilled manpower exacerbated by large emigration
of the labor force into the Gulf States, the TYDP addressed the issue of human
resources development. From that background the Government requested IDA in 1980
financial assistance amounting to SDR 8 million for a Fourth Education Project.
Project Objectives
2.07      The Fourth Education Project covered six years (1981 - 1986) and aimed
at:
i)      Improving the quality of education through improved in-service
teacher training, provisions of science kits, equipment and
laboratories;
(ii)    Construction of new secondary schools in settlements where no
secondary schools existed, thus providing more equitable
opportunities for secondary education in some rural areas;
(iii)   Construction of laboratories in existing secondary schools,
thereby facilitating improved science teaching;
(iv)    Revamping  the  science  laboratories  of  the  College  of
Education, and provision of equipment and other supplies to
the College;
(v)     Improving the managerial skills of both the public and private
sectors through enlarged or improved SIDAM programs; and
(vi)    Assisting  the  Government  to  carry  out  pre-investment,
evaluation and civil service employment studies.
2.08      More specifically, however, the project encompassed:
(i)     Primary Teacher Training Resources Centers
As part of the primary teacher training project, in-service
training programs were to be conducted in the summer for



- 17 -
primary  schools.    Additional  facilities,  equipment  and
furniture were to be provided to five existing regional
secondary schools (Burao, Dusa-Mareb, Baidoa, Qoryoli and
Kismayo) and 1,520 primary school teachers were to be given
summer training programs in these five centers each year.
In addition to the instructional facilities established in
these secondary schools, the project made provisions for
compensatory salaries to course instructors and supporting
staff, per diem for couree participants and expendable course
materials.   Furthermore, primary schools in which course
participants work were to receive audio visual aids kits and
science apparatus.
(ii)    General Secondary Schools
The Fourth Education Project included construction of four new
secondary schools in settlements established for the 1975
drought affected nomads, and physical improvement of ten
existing secondary schools. Furniture and science equipment
were also to be supplied to these secondary schools.
The four new schools were to have a total enrollment capacity
of 864 students while the ten existing schools were to have a
combined enrollment c.%pacity of 3,312 students. The selection
of the existing secondary schools and construction of new ones
in settlements provided increased opportunities for secondary
education in rural areas.
The construction of new secondary schools in the settlements,
was, therefore, to result in increases female access to
general secondary education.   In the settlement areas a
significant proportion of the male population were returning
to nomadic life or were emigrating or seeking employment in
urban centers.   Consequently more women than men chose to
remain in the settlements.
(iii)   Lafole College of Education
The College is the principal source of secondary school
teachers of the Ministry of Education (HOE). In line with the
objective of improving teacher training, the project made
provisions for the College in the form of refurbishing science
laboratories and equipment, and an audio visual aids center.
The project also included strengthening the text-book
production center by providing printing facilities and
consumables. In order to improve the quality of instruction
at the College and in order for the students to have more time
for lab. and teaching pract-ces, the Government agreed to
increasing the two-year intensive program to three years and
to limit student intake so as to stabilize output at 150
students per annum.



- 18 -
(iv)    Somali Institute for Davelopmuent Administration And Manamement
SIDAM is the sole management institute in Somalia. However,
because of shortage of qualified management faculty, most of
its   planned   programs   were   not   being   implemented
satisfactorily. In view of this and the desire on the part of
the Government to establish a more efficient civil service
system, the project made provision for 24 man months of
technical assistance for SIDAM. The purpose of this technical
assistance was to make available to the Institute the services
of management educators who would not only teach courses but
who would also make comprehensive development plans for future
assistance.
(v)     Technical and Vocational Education and Civil Service Employmen
The   Government   enunciated   the   policy   of   education
diversification whereby the majority of primary school leavers
would be directed to technical secondary schools and
vocational secondary schools. Yet the MOE was already short
of qualified technical teachers. Further, technical education
is a high capital cost venture ordinarily non affordable by
the Government without external assistance. In view of this,
the project included provisions for two experts for six
months. The two experts were to evaluate existing training
programs and to do a technical training needs analysis in the
light of manpower needs. The experts were also expected to
prepare development plans in this area.
The project also included 18 man months of technical
assistance to help the Government conduct a civil service
study and make recommendations for designing an efficient
public service system.



- 19 -
Proiect Cost Estimates
2.09      The Fourth Education Project envisaged a total project cost of US$ 13.0
million. Of this USS10.2 was to be met by an IDA credit. Tghe cost estimate is
summarized in this table:
Component Description               Cost in US$          2   of
(million)        Total Cost
A.    Civil Works, Furniture, Equipment
and Vehicles
1. Primary Teacher Training                 1.6               12.3
2. General Secondary Schools                3.1               23.8
3. In-Service Training                      1.2                9.2
4. Lafole College of Education              0.5                3.8
5. SIDAM                                    0.2                 1.5
6. Project Unit Warehouse                   0.1                0.8
Component Total                    6.7               51.5
B.    Technical Assistance,
Administration and Contingencies
7. Technical Assistance                     2.3               17.7
8. Project Administration                   0.3                2.3
9. Contingencies                            3.7               28.5
Component Total                    6.3               48.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST (A+B)          13.0              100.0
Strategies
2.10      The above stated project objectives were to be achieved through the
following strategies.
(a)     The Ministry of Education would maint.:.in a student/teacher
ratio of 24:1 in general secondary se1 ole. The purpose of
this was to make secondary education cost effective.
(b)     With effect from academic year 1983 - 84 Lafole College of
Education would increase the length of its teaching and
training programs from two years to three years so that
graduates from the College would be better prepared to teach
in secondary schools.
(c)     The project would enrich the science curriculum of the College
of Educ&tion, refurbish the laboratories and provide
equipment.    This would  enrich  the  training  of  science
students.   It was hoped that this strategy would enable
science graduates from the College to be qualified enough to
teach science subjects in secondary schools.



- 20 -
(d)     The Government would gradually reduce the annual intake of the
College of Education.   It was expected that this strategy
would have two results.
(i)   The quality of instruction at the College of Education
would improve since class sizes would be smaller and
equipment and other supplies would be available and
adequate for instructional purposes. This would further
reduce the pressure of excess capacity on the College
facilities.
(ii) Since the Ministry of Education expected that its
secondary school teacher needs would have been
stabilized by then, reduction of admission of students
to the College would also stabilize the salary budget of
the ministry.
(e)     The quality of primary education was expected to be improved
by upgrading the academic and professional competence of the
teachers through inserving training, and special equipped
centers were desired for the purpose.
Certain Economic and Policy Assumptions that Failed to Hold
2.11      When the Association approved the credit for the Somali Government.
Some economic and policy assumptions were made and the Government agreed to a
number of things that seemed realistic at the time.
2.12      The Somali economy showed no signs of falling apart. Expectations were
that the recurrent and capital expenditure of the Government would annually grow
at the rate of 5x. In view of this, it was assumed that recurrent budgets of MOE
would grow at no less than 82 p.a., and that the ministry would therefore sustain
the financial needs of its school systems.  In the 80's and especially after
1984, the performance of the economy markedly worsened. IM? induced successive
devaluations of the shilling, suspension of the Franca Valuta and austerity
economic programs played havoc on the financial markets and the currency exchange
rates. Prices of most goods soared. Recurrent budgets of MOE declined in real
terms, resulting in less effective allocations for schools and the College of
Education.
2.13      The MOE anticipated that its chronic teacher shortage would be eased.
Accordingly it assured the Association that the annual intake of Lafole College
of Education would be reduced and output would be stabilized at 150 students p.&.
2.14      However, rampant inflation became a common characteristic of the
economy, and prices of all goods sky rocketed. The Government made no parallel
adjustment for the salaries of its civil service. As a result of this the cost
of living, and especially in the big cities, became unbearable. Emigration of
skilled personnel to the Gulf States and seeking employment from non governmental
organizations became all the more attractive. The existing teacher stock of the



- 21 -
MOE dwindled as teachers quit or abandoned their jobs.  Moreover, because of
economic hard conditions and the abysmal low salaries of teachers, many fresh
graduates from the College chose not to join the staff of HOE. Consequently, the
anticipated stabilization of the teacher needs of the MOE did not materialize.
Admission of new students into the College remained unabated, to the extent that
after mid '80 around 2000 students were enrolled in the College. In spite of
increased enrollments in the College, neither the physical facilities nor the
budget of the College were increased, thus exacerbating further the prevailing
overcrowding and poor quality of training.  Deterioration of the quality of
training in the College understandably contributed to the general deterioration
of the quality of secondary education.
2.15      A much  cherished policy was  diversification  of education.    As
enrollments in primary schools increased, the Government realized that, for
development purposes, it could no longer admit all primary school students
directly to general secondary schools. Towards this end, the Government set up
this policy: 20Z of all primary school leavers would be terminated while the
remaining 80X would be distributed among post primary schools in
the following proportions:
24Z in general Secondary Schools.
14Z in Technical Secondary Schools.
42Z in Vocational Schools.
2.16      In addition, the Government assured the Association that it would
maintain a student/teacher ratio of 24:1 in Secondary Schools so as to make
secondary education cost effective.  The Government further agreed in limiting
expansion of general secondary education and that any further development in this
area would be undertaken in accordance to the Government's capacity to finance
secondary school expansion.
2.17      By the time the Association's Appraisal mission had arrived in
Mogadishu it was evident that this policy would not pass the litmus test, for the
following reasons:
(a) Technical and vocational education needs high capital costs.
Further, the MOE was already suffering from lack of qualified
technical and vocational teachers, and with the deterioration of
the economy, it became all the more formidable to expand technical
and vocational education.   The Government therefore,  tacitly
continued expanding general secondary education.
(b) Beleaguered with less capital expenditure, less effective
recurrent budgets and increasing outputs from primary schools, the
Government continued placing more students in general secondary
schools.
(c) High cost of living and meager teacher salaries simply did not
allow MOE to keep a sufficient number of teachers in its employ.
In view of this, the ministry was unable to maintain its tarS%ated
student/teacher ratio of 24:1.



- 22 -
In short, for the reasons cited earlier, the above policy became
untenable by the early eighties and continuation of enrolling more primary school
leavers in general secondary schools resulted in more unemployed secondary school
graduates in the larger cities.
Project Formulation and Implementation
2.18      Although the project planners could not detect the abrupt worsening of
the economy, the Appraisal Mission clearly saw that such policies as
diversification of education, maintenance of higher student/teacher ratios and
poor utilization of science equipment were not wholly sustainable. Yet, MOE
still continued pursuing these policies, while in reality it was already
experiencing the shortfalls of these policies.  Perhaps a more comprehensive
project revision paper was in order instead of the minor project modifications
suggested by MOE. In retrospect, a scaled down diversification program could
have been instituted; especially:
(a) Limited technical and vocational schools could have been started.
Several technical/vocational pilot schools could also have been
made;
(b) Since it was already evident that the Ministry lacked qualified
technical teachers, the Technical teachers college could have been
strengthened;
(c) In a revised project paper, an important inclusion could have been
a skills development training for primary school leavers;
(d) A more realistic secondary education should have been planned for
the settlement and refugee centers, since both groups were not to
be realistically expected to be permanent settlersl and
(e) Salary adjustments and other money incentives for the teachers
were to be introduced, in order to make teacher attrition as
reasonable as possible.
2.19      Other salient features of the project formulation and implementation
included:
(a) After  three  projects  that  all  emphasized  expansion  and
diversification of education that ranged from UPE, mass Literacy,
and access to the rural areas, the objectives of the 4th education
project were timely and well thought out policies that aimed at
UPE and mass literacy;
(b) No guidelines were, however, made for quality control. No inbuilt
evaluation system was incorporated into the formulation of the
project to ensure the tenability of the planned objectives;



- 23 -
(c) Some of the planned activities showed total ignorance of the
formulations about the reality and the absence of the involvement
of the nationals.  The planned technical assistance for Lafole
which made provisions for the supply of catering consultants is a
case in point; and
(d) The formulation failed to assess the government's ability to
regularly allocate resources for maintenance and replacement of
consumable materials.
Imglemoentation Manaaement
2.20      There appears to have been no real coordination between the PIU, the
various departments of the Ministry, and the actual project institutions and
especially in the area of implementing the educational aspects of the project.
2.21      Modifications and corrective actions that could actually have been made
during the course of the project were not made, especially have been made during
the course of the project were not made, especially when it appeared that many
of the earlier assumptions were not realistic and the planned targets were not
achievable. The Government and the Association were equally responsible for
that. The latter could on its part have identified the problems and could have
alerted the government and proposed solutions. It has been a wise decision to
use the saved money for the formulation of the fifth project.
Pro1ect RReults
2.22      Almost all of the planned activities in the project have been partly
or fully undertaken. Most of the stated indicators, however, cast strong doubts
on whether the ultimate objective of improving the quality of education in the
primary and secondary levels and also in the teacher training programs has at all
been achieved.
2.23      Among the important benefits to be gained was the improvement of
primary education through teacher training by establishing enough resource
centers that will facilitate recurrent and in-service training programs for the
teachers. Unfortunately, this important component can claim only a very marginal
success. None of the resource centers has so far functioned and therefore it ha.
not been possible to make use of the facilities. Moreover, while about half of
the expected numbers to be trained have attended programs organized through the
project, there has not been any noticeable impact on their quality, academically
or professionally.
2.24      Another anticipated benefit from the project was improvement of the
quality of education in secondary schools by simultaneously providing science
equipment and supplies to the poorly equipped school laboratories and at the
same time upgrading the quality of secondary level teachers under training at the
Lafole College of Education, by also maintaining and supplying new facilities for
the  College's  out-moded  laboratories.    Neither  of  these  objectives  has
materialized.



- 24 -
2.25      The quality of secondary education could not have been improved because
the laboratories have not functioned, as science teachers were either not
available in the rural areas or were unable to operate the science equipment.
In certain cases the facilities could not have been used as the schools were not
supplied with such important utilities as water and electricity.
Moreover, secondary education lost its principal attractions as the
government could not implement two major development policies: Firstly, it could
not put into effect its policy which emphasized skills development and employment
generation by enrolling 56% of the primary level graduates into post primary
vocational and technical schools. Secondly, a government decision to terminate
a policy that guaranteed public employment for the graduates of that level during
the seventies has become a major disincentive that killed the motivating furce
for staying in school, since also opportunities for further education were very
limited.
2.26      The other anticipated aim of improving the training of secondary school
teachers and upgrading their academic and professional capabilities to perform
effective teaching at that level has not been achieved mainly because the College
lost almost all of its qualified staff and the majority of the present staff are
graduates of the College who themselves can hardly use the equipment.
General Secondary Education
2.27      Background.   A major component of the Fourth Education Project
consisted of provisions for the physical expansion, rehabilitation and quality
improvement of secondary education.   Out of $10.2 million IDA credit, $3.1
million were to be spent on general secondary education. The reason vhy such
importance was attached to that level of education can be appreciated only if
that planned investment in the project is compared to the $3.9 million allocated
as capital expenditure for the entire education sector during the whole 3 year
development plan period of 1978-81, when this project was formulated.
2.28      The priority accorded to secondary education at the time was partly in
response to the 1975 government policy of providing compulsory and free primary
education to all school age children. This policy swelled enrollments in primary
schools in the initial years but naturally necessitated expansion of post primary
education in order to cope with expected neW influxes of students in secondary
schools during the project period.
2.29      The quantitative expansion of general secondary education was also
endorsed for a second reason:  it contributed to the government's proclaimed
policy of seeking to achieve equity in the distribution of resources and
services, especially those of education and health. The project, for example,
planned all the new schools for communities that previously had no secondary
schools.
2.30      There was a third reason, which was also central to the need for the
assistance, that gave secondary education a special prominence in this project.
Some years before this project was first formulated and after, there was a



- 25 -
nation-wide increasing frustration over declining academic standards in the
schools.   However, secondary education was somehow felt to have been more
seriously affected.   To overcome this problem, the planners sought to make
provisions for quality improvement, especially in strengthening instruction and
acquisition of scientific knowledge.
2.31      Planned  Activities.    Besides  less  important  things,  the major
activities to have been accomplished in this component of the project included:
(a) Construction of four new secondary schools in settlement areas
where no secondary schools existed, hence making post primary
education accessible to rural children;
(b) Physical rehabiJ1'tation of school buildings and improvement of
utilities and co..struction of extensions or conversions for ten
already existing schools;
(c) Procurement of laboratory equipment for project schools, thereby
facilitating for better science teaching; and
(d) Supplying adequate furniture to project schools so as to create an
environment convenient and conducive to both learning and
teaching.
2.32      Implementation.  The implementation of this component of the project
was hampered by major changes that ranged from shift of school locatioLs,
modifications in the planned works and construction, and changes in the
allocation and distribution of resources. None of the changes, however, have
represented major deviations from the original objective.   The changes were
guided by new developments and have won the acceptance of the government and the
Association. The biggest change affected the locations of the schools. They
were shifted from their originally planned locations of Kunturwaray, Sablaale,
Barawa, and Adale to Eyl, Mareeray, Lafole, and Jalalaqsi. Such an action was
justified on the basis of observed declining population in the first group of
communities. The inhabitants of these places were mostly former nomads who were
resettled by the government after they had been made destitute by the 1975
drought.  Throughout the later part of the seventies, these settlements were
being developed into model communities and have received a proportionately large
share of the development inveetment. However, as the project progressed toward
implementation it became apparent that the former nomads were leaving the
settlements in large numbers. Many were able to restock herds of livestock and
returned to their areas of origin in the north; others traveled to the Arab Gulf
States which offered an employment boon for the unskilled. Another modification
in the original plan reduced enrollments in some schools. Specifically, some of
the schools were converted into single streams rather than doubles (each grade
was planned to consist of two classes) as originally planned.
2.33      Another important diversion from the plan affected the distribution of
the science equipment and other facilities.  This action was taken so as to



- 26 -
benefit well attended schools elsewhere, when it was realized that some of the
project schools were suffering from decreasing enrollments e.g. Eyl and Hudur.
2.34      Educational Effectiveness.  While the change of school locations from
the originally planned areas was generally desirable, the substitute areas
selected do not seem to have provided better alternatives.   For example Eyl
itself was the home for a large, formerly nomadic, settled community which
dispersed by the time the project went into implementation, leaving the school
under-utilized.   Jalalaqsi was chosen because of a refugee population that
provided more than half of the school enrollments.   But while some of the
refugees might have decided to stay and integrate into the local communities the
majority were expected to voluntarily repatriate to their country of origin in
the long run.
2.35      Planned laboratory facilities, and science equipment and supplies for
the project schools are most unlikely to have improved the teaching of science
in the project schools up to now.   For one obvious reason, delivery of the
equipment and furniture fell behind the procurement schedule and some have not
yet reached the schools let alone had an assessable impact. Secondly, many of
the labs have not yet been utilized.   Because either the teachers were not
familiar with the equipment and could not therefore operate it or the schools
were not provided with the necessary utilities, e.g. electricity and water.
Further, some of the project schools have not received the supplies because they
had either been shifted elsewhere or simply were not delivered.   Thirdly,
although the new science equipment and furniture aroused enthusiasm both among
the teachers and students, the apparent lack of seriousness towards learning
among the students, as the larger population also lost a sense of purpose in
schooling, jeopardized any effective use being made of the facilities.
Similarly, growing indifference to fulfilling obligations and to achieving
standards by the teachers, further worsened by poor initial training, has more
than any other reason contributed to the under-utilization and ineffectiveness
of the education system.
2.36      A variety of other reasons, of which economic reasons were the moat
important, existed that diminished the effectiveness of the secondary education.
For example, the failure of the government's policy of reducing unemployment by
enrolling 562 of the primary leavers in vocational and technical program has
substantially reduced the enthusiasm for education. In view of the deterioration
of the economy, high capital cost of technical and vocational education
associated with the shortage of skilled technical teachers, the Government
reluctantly continued enrolling more students in general secondary schools.
Further, the government had rescinded its policy that guaranteed public
employment for secondary school leavers and thus removed the last grain of
incentive to compete for academic excellence or even to stay in school. With
declining productivity in the rural areas, ever increasing unemployment in the
urban centers, and soaring prices and spiraling inflation, the problem of the
educated unemployed remains one of the thorniest issues that have been facing the
government for nearly a decade now.



Secandejy Student Enreoltent
MMOE  cr S       _        79/0         0/31        81182       82/83 _      3..        81/85        8/86        86/87       87. 8.  .8fS9
isms_alme                   35         189         217          51          233          29          39                       11
Grade I                     MA          NA          MA          45           MA          NA          36          40           10         N.E.
Grade I I                               32          145         196         52          210          35          30           40          11
Grade lIl                               -           32         I18          194          74          105         30           28          32
Crade IV                                             -          29          123         156          44          100          32          64
Grade I                                                         410         129          42          N.M.I       43         N.M.I         6
Grade it                                                        283         410         117          34                       34
Grade ItII                                                   , ..E.         319         408          129         38          N.E.         37
Grade IV                                                 .     ".E.         N.E.        235          400         129          38          22
Oalawy 
Grade 1                    139         433         340          213         215         164          201         88          289          13          1
Grade II                   1 32        135         400          316         194         176          151         163         88          259          _
Grade ItI                              150          120         382         269         168          145         127         141         289
Grade IV                                            1 20        112         34          287          233         124         1S0         190
Grade I                                SW_ 800     410          401  _                  201 _       321          460 _       229         110
Grade 11                                            740         446         624         196          170         280         461         100
Grade li1                                            -          625         300         350          160         150         212         240
Grade IV                    _       _                            -          646         471          510         184         218         240
Grade I                     88         t51          151         102         69           44          64          79           44
Grade It                    38          63          116         138         103          72          48          68          86
Grade III                   30         22           34          116         135          94          77          39          59
Grade IV                               14           16          38          96          138          91          59          36



Eyt   ____ _  _                              _   _       _   __ _                        84/85       8586  1               ....EL 8 .1
Grade!                                                                        86          21          25           51          14
Grade I11                                                                     76          49          20           27          31
Grade 111                                            :                       149          7851   _                 18          26
Grade IV                                                                      -           134         61           30          17
Bosans_ o_
Grade I                                 1SS          IS0         45          126          60          98          138          11?         74
Grade 11     _                          32          140          126         46           120         32           65          93          102
Grade II I                                           48          141         117          65          96           36          53          85
Grade IV                                 .                       S4          140          114         47           83          37          63
Jalalaksi                  M/U66        7          87/88        88    _    89/90
Grade I                     66          154         191          81                                _
Grade I                      -          158         158          161         81
Grade II I I                                         60          143         161
Grade IV                     .           .                       54          143                                                   _        _
79/80      80/81        81/8.        via         a3/8        84/85        5/8         868/87       87r i
Buuto- auwte           __  __  ____                ___ __   __ __  ___  __  __ __    __ __  __    _ ___ __   
Grade I                     40          220         177          177         109          119         110         131          114         63
Grade lI t                              40          200          176         175          110         119         110          131         105
Grade III                    .           -           29          196         173          167         110         119          110         101
Grade IV                     .                                   29          196          173         167         110          119         96
sarwbahray Sec. Seb.
Grade !                     73          139         135          45           37          25          30           26          54          41
Grade 11                    73          47           45          53          41           33          25           30          28          S7
Grade !!!                   30          48           47          78           47          38          26           24          32          23
Grade IV                    24          24           22          28          64           51          31           24          28          45



Garbh  rvay Sec. Sdh.      7
Grade I                      21          21       ___
Grade IE                                 19
Grade III                    -
Grade IV
7910       80/81        81,82        82/          83/4        14/8C        e 5/86      86           88          Oslo8/89
Afooi
Grade I                      94         168          186          106         154          70           88          130          38          50
Grade 11                     53          53          152          185         104          120          69           70          125         30
Grade fit                    18          45           43          123         175          93          tiI           55          65          160
Grade IV                     -           23           52          51          128          135          109          96          62          60
Lfoo.te S.S.
Grde E                       57          97           33          82           10          24                                                 18
tr-'-                                   -           -            -- *RM         OMMEma                                                      29
Grade III                    22          37          45           79     |    95           68    l             l           l_l    64
Grade IV                                 is           27          42           86           70



- 30 -
Teacher TX&inina_
2.37      The attempt to improve the quality of education had not been more
strongly emphasized than in the teacher training component.   The degree of
importance given to that aspect of the project is clearly demonstrated in
budgetary allocation which sliced more than 36S of the project funds for that
purpose (172 for primary teacher training resource centers, 132 for in-service
training of primary schools teachers, 5X for pre-service of secondary school
teachers at Lafole College of Education, 1.22 for technical assistance for the
same college).   The conceptualization of the project has given a sufficient
justification for that proportionally large allocation. It was based on the view
that the existing stock of teachers were by far completely unprepared for their
roles. As many as 6,200 primary school teachers or 772 of the teachers at that
level were said to have lacked the minimum qualifications to perform any
effective teaching. There was also a growing concern about the deteriorating
quality of secondary school teachers and particularly their inability to
effectively teach science subjects.  Thus, given such low quality teachers, the
realization of the objective of the Fourth IDA-assisted Education Project, which
committed itself to improve the quality of education, was inconceivable.
2.38      It was from this background that the need to upgrade the academic and
the professional competence of the teachers arose. The project was therefore
designed to increase the academic and pedagogical capability of 6,200 primary
school teachers through in-service training programs. The project also planned
provisions for impraving the quality of over a thousand teachers to be trained
for the secondary schools.
(a) Secondary School Teacher Training
2.39      Backhround. Beside smaller support services and materials, the project
agreement called for improving the quality of those being trained as secondary
school teachers at Lafole College of Education by upgrading and raising their
knowledge and competence, especially in the scientific subjects. This was seen
to be achievable by stocking the then under-equipped science labs with enough
science instruments and consumable materials for about five years. From this
conceptualization it seems to have been thought that the assistance would have
had a self-perpetuating multiplier effect and that it would have unleashed a
chain reaction of improvements in the educational system. The rationalization
was that the equipment would automatically improve the quality of instruction of
the science subjects in the College and, in the process, more able and better
trained teachers would be produced who would naturally perform better once they
go out to teach.
2.40      Im2lementation.  Based on that rationalization, the project delivered
equipment, accessories, and consumables by mid-1986. A five year supply of these
items was distributed to five science departments, namely biology, chemistry,
physics, agricultural education, and the audio-visual aids center. At the same
time, water and electrical installations were improved for the laboratories, as
two air-conditioning units were given to the physics department. In addition to
the improvements of the science facilities, the College received other important



- 31 -
assistance from the project - three vehicles that relieved the College from the
chronic transport bottle-neck, new furniture to replace the deteriorated
classroom and laboratory equipment, and additional storage space for the College
library.
2.41      Educational Impact and Effectivenoes.   The support services and
materials were extremely effective and have shown real positive impact. The
transport and the furniture were particularly appreciated and both have solved
some of the most pressing problems that were facing the College for quite a long
time. Securing vehicles to transport teachers to and from the college and enough
seating facilities for the classrooms and library were a priority for the College
for quite a long time, and therefore, their availability was an indirect
contribution to the improvement of the quality of instruction and learning.
2.42      The Science inputs have not made similar impact and actually are not
expected to have made any real positive improvement in the quality of the
teachers produced by the College. Several factors have each in its way worked
against the success of the project.  Firstly, many of the equipment items
supplied  to  the various  laboratories  could not  have  been utilized  for
instructional purposes. The problem lay with the College science instructors who
lack the uxperience and the qualifications to operate and put them into proper
use. Some 751 of the present science inatructors, half of whom are part-timers,
are first degree holders and are graduates of the same departments in which they
are teaching. Thus, given the conditions in which they themselves have been
trained, which was characterized by poor instruction that emphasized theoretical
methods, it is nc.t surprising that they are not prepared to effectively use and
maintain the equipment furnished.
2.43      Probably, this state of affairs could not have been foreseen at the
planning stage. But the College staff who participated in the formulation of the
project and the ordering of the science equipment are not any longer in place.
The appraisal report refers to the College being adequately staffed with
qualified instructors, some of whom were still abroad for training. Since the
project went into implementation, however, the College experienced a severe brain
drain and a very high turn-over of qualified staff. Some of the teachers have
never come back from training while the rest were mostly forced to seek better
living conditions in both the public and private sectors, as they ran away from
the miserable payments at the College.
2.44      Secondly, the need to train more teachers for secondary schools, well
in excess of the College's capacity, has over-stretched its resources and exerted
undue stress on the equipment and consumables. The government's inability to
divert 561 of the primary graduates into technical and vocational skills training
institutions and programs and to reduce the general secondary proportions to 24X
during the project period has created an ever increasing demand for more general
secondary school teachers.
2.45      During the appraisal it was envisaged that the duration of study in tne
College would be extended from two years to three years. Moreover its annual
out-put was planned to be stabilized at 150 teachers beginning 1983i84 school



- 32 -
year. The continued escalation of secondary school enrollments in the subsequent
years, however, has rendered these projections meaningless as it made the
training of more teachers obligatory. And since then the College enrollments
were always several times above the targeted figures, and consequently a
situation always existed whereby vital equipment and consumables, some of which
may not be easily replaceable for long periods, will be in serious shortage.
Fig: Secondarv education 1985/86 - Proiected vs Actual
Prolected         Actual
Student enrollment              18,200          46,305
Teachers                         1,530           2,801
2.46      Thirdly, and most seriously, this component suffered from lack of
follow-up actions and monitoring to ensure the effective implementation of the
educational aspects of the project, as priority seems to have been given to
procurement and delivery and physical infrastructure.
2.47      The project implementation unit, the IDA missions, and Ministry of
Education and even the university and the College administration seem to have all
failed to detect the weaknesses and therefore could not coordinate their actions
to take corrective and remedial measures to sustain the project at an early stage
when the problems appeared. Although the PIU has been wise enough to have
recruited a liaison person to deal with this, there does not seem to have been
enough attention given to the purpose of the whole scheme-training of better
teachers. For example, some fatal damage and mistakes could have been averted,
and the project objectives were, to a large degree, realizable, had the concerned
party made even modest efforts to coordinate their actions for the inprovement
of the program.
2.48      Conclusions and Recommendations. While the furniture and the transport
supplied under this project had significant impact on the overall running and
functioning of the College and in the long-term will improve the quality of the
teachers, the principal component of the assistance, which essentially consisted
of the science equipment and the accompanying consumables, has so far least
benefitted the College and hence did not have any meaningful impact on the
realization of the ultimate objective of producing qualified secondary school
science teachers.
2.49      However, to a large degree, the original objective is still achievable
and sustainable with minimum inputs and alterations. Thus, in order to save the
substantial investments already made, the following recommendations are being
made:
(1) Urgent need for technical assistance in the form of consultant
trainers to science teachers and laboratory technicians on the use
of the equipment.



- 33 -
(2) While insufficient utilization of the equipment greatly reduced
their impact, it is also possible that they have not remained
intact to be made use of in the future. For example, some of the
equipment may have rusted and therefore may not be functional any
longer because of prolonged disuse.   Chemicals may have gone
through transformations and decompositions and thus may have lost
their reactive powers.  And other equipment that has not been
properly set-up and maintained may have been misused or have even
fallen into private hands.   Thus it is recommended that all
equipment and supplies that have not remained intact be replaced.
(3) Financial resource for minor running costs be made available.
Experiments were not conducted because of lack of kerosene, and
projectors have not been used because of burnt-out bulbs. These
and similar needs can destroy the effectiveness of a whole project
that cost millions of dollars to set-up.
(b) Primary Teacher Training
2.50      Background.  The primary teacher training program in the project was
planned to upgrade the quality oF 6,200 school teachers who have been previously
trained for one year after they finished the primary cycle. Most of them were
trained between 1975i1978 when the need for primary school teachers became
overwhelming following the adoption of the universal primary education policy.
The aim was to improve their academic level and raise it to that of second year
secondary education while at the same time strengthening their professional
capabilities so as to make them effective primary school teachers after only one
summer course of two months' duration.
2.51      To increase the effectiveness of the training, a decentralized program
was introduced which called for the creation of resource centers which, in order
to minimize cost, would become extensions of five existing secondary schools each
in a different region. Each center was planned to serve several neighboring
regions. And to facilitate the smocth running of the programs, teachers of the
same secondary schools and trainers from the Department of Teacher Training of
MOE were to provide the training and the resource personnel.
2.52      ImRlementation.   Construction of five resource centers has been
completed in the regions of Bay, Lower Juba, Lower Shabele, Galgaduud, and
Togdheer. The status of the civil works is discussed In para. 2.75 but each
center consists of 2 rooms that were intended to serve as an audio-visual aids
room and a store. At any rate none of the centers has so far operated although
it was planned that the training of the teachers would have been completed in the
life of the project. Various explanations were given for that but it has mainly
been attributed to delayed delivery of equipment and furniture for the centers,
which again was caused by delayed international bidding and procurement.
2.53      However, even though the centers have not yet functioned, nearly half
(or 3000) of the number of teachers planned to be trained during the life of the
project, have attended in-service training courses in various parts of the



- 34 -
country. Almost all the training programs were held since 1987 and were mostly
confined to Mogadishu, although training courses for smaller groups were also
held in Kismayo, Bsaidhabo and Jawhar.
2.54      The training programs have not only changed venues but they have also
changed in nature and in content from the original conception.  Some of the
courses were held for Arabic teachers, and others were offered for science and
math teachers. A major alteration, that caused diversion of funds allocated for
science kits to be used for the purchase of transport and boarding facilities for
a new pre-service teacher training center in the capital, has taken place.
According to the original conceptualization, in-service trainees were, upon
completion of courses, to be provided science kite to assist them in the teaching
of science subjects.   This idea was later on, in the implementation stage,
dropped for reasons that do not today at all appear to be convincing. These
were, according to some officials, the realization of an increasing instability
of the teachers with regard to remaining in the teaching profession. It was
reasoned that those trained to use the kits were the first likely to drop, by
resigning or moving to higher level institutions. It was also argued that the
Ministry did not have an adequate mechanism for supervising and monitoring the
use to which the kits were being put, and there was always the risk of them not
being used at all.
2.55      Educational Effectiveness.  Most Ministry of Education officials hold
the view that the program had improved the quality, both academically and
professionally, of those who participated in the training programs. However,
they have often cited reasons that are not supported by any empirical data. For
example, they assume that the majority of those who are annually admitted to the
University-Faculty of Education (Lafole) are those who have participated in the
training programs. There is also a general agreement among the officials that
the majority of those who leave -he teaching profession are the beneficiaries of
the training course because of their increased ability to compete for fellowships
and for better paying jobs outside teaching. Again this claim is nothing more
than mere educated guess-work and is not based on any reliable findings.
2.56      However, even if both claims were true, the net result of the programs
appears to have been negative with respect to the original objective of the
project. The increased knowledge of the teachers has only served to attract away
and drain the better trained of them from primary education; and it may continue
to do the same unless a solution is found to retain the teachers, e.g. provision
of financial incentives and other benefits.   Also, while the claims have
indicated possible improvements in the academic side they have not pointed to any
pedagogical effectiveness shown by the participants. A one-time comparative
survey conducted by the Department of Teacher Training that covered 235 in-
service teacher training participants and 199 non-participants, using various
indicators, has shown marginal improvement in the quality of those who attended
training programs.
2.57      Whether or not the ministry officials have experienced improvements,
there appears to have been a growing concern in the wider public, over the
deterioration of primary education.   Thus while many examples of worsened



- 35 -
educational quality are referred to by the public, there are hardly any
improvements indicated by the primary education over the last decade. Again,
regardless of what some ministry officials believe, the training cannot be
expected to have had any substantial benefit. According to the findings of the
evaluation group, the strongest attraction of the training programs is the
financial incentive they provide, and not the experience and the training they
offer.  Thus many of those who attend do so for the financial gains and not to
improve themselves educationally. It has also been raised that the same lot of
teachers may repeat the courses every year and thus a limited number may ever
benefit from the program even if it is for its financial attractions alone.
Since the training program is not a requirement and they are not penalized for
not attending, many of the beneficiary target groups may not feel obliged to
participate, e.g. those who can forego the stipends and therefore are not lured
by financial incentives, and those who do not want to compete, for example, for
fear of failure.
2.58      Others have argued that the in-service training cannot be effective
given the brevity of its duration, which is normally about 2 months. In such a
short time and in view of the trainees' weak background, it .ay take some time
before their academic and pedagogical capability is raised to required level@.
And finally, many people, including the writers, are convinced that a potential
positive impact of the project was eliminated when the resources allocated for
the science kits were diverted. This rationale is mainly based on the view that
primary school teachers have no access to teaching aids, reference materials, or
anything else beyond the text book, to help them become better teachers.  Thus
the proposed kits are looked upon to have beeu an innovative input that possibly
had the potential to make a dramatic positive impact on the quality of the
teachers and especially in their ability to teach science subjects, where they
have been the weakest.
SIDAM
2.59      Background.   For many years the Somali Institute of Development
Administration and Management (SIDAH) was, and it still remains, the only
institute in the country that offered training in the areas of management and
administration. The Institute was founded in 1965 to upgrade the civil service
system and to improve the managerial and executive skills of government
employees. However, in the fitst decade of its existence the Institute had a
very limited capacity and it mainly concentrated on secretariat and other junior
level programs, such as office management, administration and accounting. By
1974, that situation underwent dramatic transformation and SIDAM's role suddenly
gained a new importance.   The government's nationalization of major private
industries and other businesses created an urgent need to expand the Institute's
capacity as well as to introduce more advanced and diversified topics to its
training programs so as to cope with the multiplicity of management and
administrative activities required by the new public enterprises.
2.60      UNDP assisted the goversment to find a solution to that need by
financing a three-stage project that lasted between 1974-1984.  Based on the
perceived need of the time, the program included long and short term courses on



- 36 -
a wide range of topics. Among these were financial management and accounting,
general management, industrial and production management, procurement, public
administration, and management of rural development programs.
2.61      Inspite of the long time it existed,  the program was generally
ineffective:
(a) Throughout the ten-year period of the project only 1,236
participants completed long-term courses of one to two year
duration, while another 2,116 participants took shorter courses.
And by the early eighties it was realized that SIDAM's output was
much too low to satisfy the public sector need, even if the much
larger private sector was not catered for.  An ILO assessment
mission, in 1981, estimated ;hat 14,500 managers and supervisors
were required to meet the minimum training needs of the public
sector alone.
(b) It was also realized that the Institute was still facing serious
institutional constraints to sufficiently address the major tasks
it was entrusted with. Chief among the problems was the shortage
of qualified national staff. Although a sizable amount of the
project funds went to staff development, there were no
professional nationals available by its termination and the
Institute's training, consultancy and research activities were
still being dominated by expatriates.  Moreover, the Institute's
efforts were further being constrained by shortage of reading
materials and library facilities, functional laboratories, e.g.
computers, visual aids and other essential equipment, and
transport.
2.62      The fourth IDA-assisted project was an out-growth of the situation
described above. The project which committed itself to establishing a base for
long term solutions to the country's management and administrative problems, by
developing the technical viability of the Institute, stated its objectives as
follows:  -   Develop staff for SIDAM in order to upgrade and expand its
capacity for training, consultancy and research and as an
institution of higher learning in management development.
-   Promote SIDAM's training and education resources.
-   Promote supportive resources of transport and equipment for SIDAM.
-   Extend SIDAM's services to cover the private sector in addition to
the public sector.
2.63      Proiect Impact.  The project's overall impact on the management and
administrative capability of the country were both positive and considerable in
scope.  Within a span of only three years, 240 beneficiaries have completed
degree programs in different types of management as another 799 were given
training in various types of management skills on a short term basis (see Tables
below).  Although these figures sound numerically insignificant, taking into
account the many thousands of untrained personnel in management positions in both
the public and private sector6, the program grew popular because of the new



- 37 -
developmental outlook and professionalism being inculcated through it. Thus it
was the relevance of the training program and the potential to sustain it in the
long run which gave it a positive impact.   The sudden influx of trained
accountanzs, administrators and managers has changed attitudes and increased the
popularity and demand for systems and technologies rarely heard of in the past.
Business consultancy and the use of computers and research methodologies for
improved administration and management have become a norm.
Courses Conducted up to December 31. 1984
Long Courses
(a)      Two-year diploma course in financial management and accounting:
-----------------------------------------------------------
Batch                        No. of           Number
Participants      graduated
Third                           62               62
Fourth                          66               63
Fifth                           88               65
Sixth                           92
Seventh                        105              192
------____________
The first and second batches were under UN/DTCD Phase I and II
of the project, with 36 and 47 graduates in 1977 and 1979,
respectively.
(b)      One-year diploma course in general management:
Batch                         No. of            Number
Participants      graduated
-----------------------------------------------------__----
First (SIDAM 1981)              144               144
Se nd (SIDAM 1982)               15                15
T.  t (SIDAM 1983)               18                11
Fourth (SIDAM 1984)              61               50
First (Policy Academy 1981)     124               124
Second (Policy Academy 1982)    144               144
Third (Policy Academy 1983)     141               141
Fourth (Policy Academy 1984)     62               62
Elementary Management Public                    Result
Administration (no date)       84            not known
----------------------------------------------------------



- 38 -
(c)       One-year post-graduate course in industrial managements
---------------------_----------------------------------__--
Batch                            No. of            Number
Participants       graduated
------------------------------------------------------__----
Second                               7                 7
Third                               13                13
Fourth                              11                11
___________-____,________________________________________
first batch is not shown in the annex
(d)       One-year diploma course ia rural developments
Batch                            No. of            Number
Participants       graduated
----------_------__-_----_--_---___.-------_---------_._-_--
Second                              17                 17
Third                                13                13
Fourth                              25                  2
First batch is not shown in the annex
ILL  The industrial management course started in 1.3.83 and
ended in 31.12.1982 with the departure of the expatriates.
The rural development course started in 31.1.82 and with the
departure of the expatriate ended 30.12.83.
Short Term Courseg
Number of      Number of Participants
Perid               Courses   Planned  Started  Completed
Jan/July 1981                      3          50        66         66
July/Doe 1981                     14         503       297        297
Jan/June 1981                     10         211       192        103
July/Dee 1982                     11         216       310        310
Jan/July 1983                     19         737       741        739
July (Mini Computer P.250)
July/Dec 1983                     16         365       364        357
Jan/June 1984                     14         275       257        244
July/Dec 1984                     11         280         -          -
98       2,437    2,227*   2,116 (1)
*   Note including July/Dec 1984
(1) IL0, UNDP, Project findings and recommendations, Geneva, 1987, Annex 5.



- 39 -
2.64      Though the Institute was not effective enough to retain permanent staff
from the project, yet it managed to get sufficient staff from project graduates
working elsewhere as part timers to fill the deficiency.
2.65      Summary.  On the whole, the project has fulfilled its objectives.  As
a result of the MBA and the BA programs SIDAM obtained competent trainers mainly
as part-time staff.  Most of them can give consultancy services and can
confidently undertake research.   At the end of the project the executing
organizations handed over materials and vehicles that were all supportive of the
continuation of the project programs.
The project also helped in contributing to the accountancy and
managerial advancement of the government agencies and the business and the
introduction of computer technology into this country.   About 230 highly
qualified project graduates in accountancy and management are employed and are
rendering their needed services. The graduates offering the experiences gained
from the short courses, and the outcome of the researches carried during the
project life or after it, will certainly move SIDAM towards the realization of
its mission.
PHYSICAL FACILITIES
Introduction
2.66      The Fourth IDA assisted Education Project envisaged the improvement of
the physical conditions as well as the furnishing and equipping of fifteen
existing secondary schools and Lafole College of Education. New units were also
to be appended to a certain number of schools.   In addition, five resource
centers were to be built in five of the fifteen schools so as to facilitate the
decentralization  of  in-service  primary  teacher  training.    Moreover,  the
construction, furnishing and equipping of four new schools was a major part of
the project.
In the framework of a completion evaluation study, most of the project
sites were visited.  This chapter deals with the assessment of the physical
facilities provided or rehabilitated under the project through observation and
scrutiny of the implementation process.
Implementation
2.67      All the proposed new construction and rehabilitation/extension works
were implemented and completed between 1985 and 1987. Furniture and equipment
were provided in different consignments at a later date. In general, the work.
carried out conform with the relevant documents (working drawings, general and
specific specifications, etc).
2.68      Notwithstanding this conformity, however, certain drawbacks, some of
which stem from the preliminary stages, were observed.  While new works are
distinct and could be easily assessed, it waG rather difficult to perceive the
physical rehabilitation carried out. As quite a long time has elapsed since the



_ 40 -
implementation (2 to 3 years ago), it followed that some of the rehabilitated
elements have either deteriorated or have been augmented with subsequent
maintenance and repairing works.   In a relatively few cases, the physical
rehabilitation works carried under the project are observable and still remain
intact. In either case, the distinction of the project inputs as regards the
-.ehabilitation works was made on the basis of the responses of headmasters,
teachers or whoever have been there during the project implementation.
DesiRn
2.69      The project devoted no effort at improving the designing of new
schools. Rather, the new school buildings were obviously a mere copy of the
conventional design. Some were even designed at a lover standard vis-a-vis the
padagogical/biological requirements. For instance, the classrooms of the new
schools of Jalalaqsi and Lafole have only three windows, being short of the
required illumination and ventilation. The self-closing layout design of these
two schools is also not appropriate. The shortcoming of such a design is that
it does not allow for future extension. Any such extension will be out of the
compound and their functional relationship with the existing units will not be
easy to achieve. Since these schools are encompassed by boundary walls, there
is really no need for a self-closing layout.
2.70      The Spatial design of the different units of new buildings complies
with the required standards and norms. The new schools are complete with the
required academic and non-academic spaces and sufficient areas were allotted for
the different spaces. As for structural design, the extension units of Afgoi
school and the new Jalalaqsi school apparently suffer from inappropriate
foundations.
Construction
2.71      The overall construction standard of the new buildings is, generally
speaking, acceptable.   Given the declining skill level experienced in the
construction industry, one should not have anticipated perfect workmanship.
Nevertheless, the works have been carried out as prescribed by the working
drawings and specifications.  Some improvements could have been made with the
introduction of innovative building systems together with effective supervision
of the construction. The demonstrated poor workmanship is manifested more in the
physical rehabilitation works particularly in the structural maintenance And
repairing. This is exemplified by the case of Jamame Secondary school where the
repaired structures have relapsed to the state of severe deterioration. Besides
the poor skill in which the repairing has been carried out, the dilapidation of
this school may be attributed to inefficient supervision and/or the lack of
detailed specifications of the works.
2.72      The septic tanks of schools located in clayey-soil areas (Mareeray,
Afgoi, etc), were not properly constructed. The result was a total collapse of
the structures thus leaving the ablution units unusable.



- 41 -
Furnishing
2.73      All the project schools, whether new or existing, have been provided
with adequate furniture. The Lafole College of Education had been furnished as
well. Only the primary teacher training resource centers are yet to be provided
with furniture. The provision of sound and adequate furniture for the existing
schools as part of the rehabilitation is believed to have been the most
beneficial project input. It has been noted that there was an acute shortage of
furniture in those schools and the project has indeed alleviated this problem.
In new schools, furniture is but a mere item in a complex of new facilities and
hence less noticed.
However, the shortcoming of the furniture provided is that it is of one
size only. This, of course, does not meet the comfort requirements of all the
students of different age groups and grades. Nevertheless, the headmasters of
the project schools have, among other things, expressed their gratitude for the
provision of furnishings.
Present Physical Condition
2.74      The new buildings are generally in a good shape at the present.  Of
course, some have already shown signs of deterioration.   The new Jalalaqsi
secondary school and the extension units of Afgoi secondary school suffer an
early degradation which might have resulted from inappropriate structural design.
Being located in a clayey soil area, the structures could not withetand the
movements of the soils as the right type of foundations were not constructed.
However, Mareeray secondary school, also in clayey-soil locality, is in a better
physical condition because of a better structural design. All the new buildings,
some of which are four years old, have not been maintained; thus minor repairing
needs might develop, leading to a major deterioration.
2.75      Since the new resource center buildings are not yet utilized, they
remain unkempt.   The rehabilitated schools vary in their present physical
condition depending on the quality of works carried out under the project or the
maintenance care received. The Jamame secondary school, for one, is in a poor
physical condition. This obviously is a result of an inappropriate design and
construction.   In addition,  the repairing activities were not carried out
skillfully, the result being a gradual deterioration.
2.76      While other schools are in a modest state of repair, Qoryoley secondary
school is in a better physical condition as it has benefitted from maintenance
activities carried out by the local communities.   Both new buildings and
rehabilitated units have one element in common-poor doors that rapidly result in
degraded conditions. The type of doors fitted is not suitable for communal use.
The fact that they would be roughly treated was not foreseen. Further this kind
of doors is less durable when exposed to sun, rain and other effects of the
weather. Most of the doors have been either repaired, replaced or remain broken
in place.  Most of the ablution units are not used owing to the lack of running
water or to the collapse of the septic tanks. Besides the structural repairing



- 42 -
of few buildinge, the general maintenance and repairing needs of the project
schools are:
- repairing/replacement of doors
- plumbing and electrical fixtures
- repairing of minor cracks in the walls
- repair of septic tanks
- repair of floor screeds & plinths
- repairs of roof covering & ceiling.
The general appearance of the schools is affected by vandalism and by
the students who scribble on the walls. Furniture, though provided later, is in
a very good shape and is anticipated to last long.
Conclusions
2.77      The project's envisaged activities in the provision of new educational
facilities and improvement/extension of existing schools has been implemented.
That is, the project objectives in regard to the physical facilities have been
achieved. While the general design and physical rehabilitation standard is no
more than the conventional standards, the new schools are complete with the
required spaces, furnishing and staff houses. Furnishing of the existing schools
is regarded as the most effective of the rehabilitation activities.
2.78      The project attempt to improve the water supply and sanitary services
of the schools has, in most cases, been in vain as a result of the adoption of
inappropriate systems. The fact that many of the school localities are short of
running water  has  left  the  installed  systems  unused.    Apart  from the
implementation of the proposed activities, the project paid no attention to
improving the conventional system of providing educational facilities.
To sum up, the project has been of great benefit in the provision of
new educational facilities and the extension/rehabilitation of some existing
schools although some developments could have been incorporated.
Recommendations
2.79      In spite of the project completion, certain recommendations are deemed
necessary to highlight.   These recommendations  are believed to be worth
considering in future projects of such nature if better results are to be sought.
In the light of observations and the scrutiny of the implementation process, the
following is recommendeds
-  The new educational facilities should be designed in such a way
that they meet the educational requirements considering the
pedagogical/biological needs. Special attention should be given
to ensure enough natural light and proper ventilation.
-  The layout of schools should be designed in such a way that it
permits future extension without the cost of disturbing the
functional relationship of different units.



- 43 -
- Innovative methods of construction and appropriate structural
design standards should be sought.
F Furniture to be provided should, among other things, meet the
comfort standards required.
- Local materials should be developed so as to maximize their
utilization.
- Ablution units and other service systems should correspond to the
utilities available in the vicinity of the site.
- The physical works to be carried out should be preoscribed in a
more detailed manner so as to facilitate the realiaztion of better
results.
- Every effort should be made to construct more durable buildings
requiring least maintenance.
- Projects should contain training activities aimed at the
development of the local professional staff in the field of
educational facilities. This will, in turn, reduce the dependence
on technical assistance in the future.  Moreover, the sort of
technical assistance provided should be geared more to the
development  of  the  staff  rather  than  to  mere  project
implementation.
Costs --d&A FInMAui
2.80      In the following pages an assessment of the financial operations of the
Fourth Education Project will be displayed. The Estimated Costs at Appraisal and
the Actual Expenditures will be comparatively analyzed, and explanacions sought
for discrepancies, Also, on one hand, the Credit Agreement between the Somali
Government and the International Development Association will be described and
its loan withdrawal plan analyzed. On the other hand disbursements will be
traced and evaluated.
2.81      For the user's convenience the whole financial operations of the
project will be sammarized in four tables, as followst
Table 1 Comparative  Table  of  project  costs  by  Category  of
Expenditures;
Table 2 Credit Allocation by Category of Expenditures;
Table 3 IDA   Allocations   and   Disbursements   by   Category   of
Expenditure.;



- 44 -
Table 4 Project Financing.
2.82      Prior to the analysis of the financial operations of the project, the
team had to solve three technical problems.
(i)   First, the project coot accounts were, still, in the assessment
period, active and open.   Expenditures were being recorded
petiodically as incurred.
(li) Secondly, for some Withdrawal Applications already processed
and sent by the PIU Accounts Section, IDA disbursement advices
were missing; thus, the actual amount disbursed against these
application was not available.
(iii) Thirdly, at the PIU Accounts Section, expenditures were
recorded only under Category of Expenditures; hence, it became
difficult and time exhausting to calculate the actual
expenditures by project item.
Because of these constraints the team had difficulties in obtaining all
necessary data for financial assessment as of the Closing Date March 31, 1989.
2.83      Because of the above mentioned technical problems the team has decided
the following:
(a)   All financial figures used in this assessment, deduced from PIU
accounts and the IDAk disbursement advises will be based on
February 28, 1989 - One month prior to the Closing Date; and;
(b)   Project expenditures assessment will be presented by category,
amitting an assessment by project item.
2.84      In the assessment, it has been observed that the project cost (as of
Feb. 28, 1989), has actually amounted to 85 per cent of the Appraisal Estimate.
In category wise expenditures analysis, construction (Civil works plus
Construction equipment and materials) and Technical Assistance costs had exceeded
their appraisal estimates by 11.5 and 15.5 per cent, respectively. However, the
Construction and the Technical Assistance cost increases were offset by lower
than forecasted costs for Furniture, Equipment and Vehicles, in-services Training
and Project Administration. Further, the project implementation stage (1981-89)
has coincided with the most difficult and turbulent period of the Somali economy.
Constant price escalations and galloping inflation undermined the purchasing
power of the Somali Shilling.   For instance, on October, 1980 a dollar was
equivalent to 6.29 Somali Shillings (as an appraisal report), while on Feb. 1989
the exchange rate was 305.91 Somali Shillings to one dollar. Remarkably, labor
and equipment costs have skyrocketed, thus compelling the project management to
confirm, occasional.-, amendments (increases) made on contract costs - as in
construction contracts.



- 45 -
Recommendations
2.85      The PIU Accounts Section must establish separate records for the
expenditures of each project item. Recording expenditure by project item will
assist the accountants at the PIU and the auditors in controlling project costs
and at the same time it will enable analysts in making indepth and complete
financial assessments.
ARpraisal Estimates
2.86      At  Appraisal,   the  estimated  total  project  cost   (including
contingencies) was US $13.0 million (81.9 million So. Sh.) *. According to the
Staff Appraisal Report No. 3054-SO, the International Development Association was
to finance the project with a credit of US$10.2 million or 78.5 per cent while
the 'omali Government had to pay the balance of US, 2.8 million of 21.5 per cent.
The proposed expenditures were divided into six main categories, namely:  Civil
works; Construction equipment and materials; Furniture, Equipment and Materials
(including local transportation services);   Technical Assistance; In service
Training; and Project Administration. In the Appraisal Estimates and as shown
in the following Table: Project Cost Equipment and vehicles had the highest cost
estimated at 33.5 per cent of the total project cost while Project Administration
had the least share estimated at 3.5 per cent.
* Exchange rate: 6.295: Oct. 1980



TABLE: PROJECT COS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURES
(Appraisal estimates and achtal Expendiures)
in 000 US$
Total Cost in US$             % of total       Differences
CATEGORY                  Appraisal Estimates    AcWal       Appraisal  Atul  in US S   In %
(including Conting.)   Expenditures
I & 2. Construction
Costs                      3,700.1           4,400.1       28.5      40      (700.0)   +19
Civil works & Const.
Equip. & materials)                                                          _           _
3. Fumiture, Equipment &
Vehicles (mcluding local         4,390.4            2,858.0      33.5      26      1,532.4    -35
transporton_services)                                         I
4. Technical Assistance             2,948.0           3,0r75.8      22.5      28      (127.8)    +4
5. In-service Training               1,533.8            368.3        12        3.5   1,165.5    -76
6. Project Administrtion              427.7             315.0        3.5       2.5     112.7    -26.5
Totals                       13,000.0          11,017.2     P100       100     1,982.8    -15



- 47 -
The Cgrdit Aereement
2.87      As shown on Schedule I of the Development Credit Agreement No. 1105 -
SO, dated April 17, 1981 a Credit of SDR 8. 0 million was allocated for the Fourth
Education Project by IDA. The percentage of expenditures to be financed from the
Credit and the amount allocated to each category were set on this schedule - see
Tables Credit Allocation (below). Nevertheless, as shown on the Table, on May
7, 1987 amendments were made in Schedule 1 with changes in the amount allocated
for each category. The withdrawal plan regarding the proceeds of the Credit was
presented on Schedule 1. Percentage of expenditures to be financed by the IDA
Credit were set in each category. For Civil works, 1002 of foreign expenditures
or 60o of local expenditures were to he withdrawn from the Credit proceeds.
Furniture, Equipment and Vehicles (including local transportation erviceai) and
Technical Assistance expenditures were to be financed from the loan on the basis
of 1002 of foreign expenditures of 802 of local expenditures.  Finally, the
Credit proceeds had to cover 502 of both In-service Training and Project
Administration expenditures.  On the basis of Credit allocation by category
(amended schedule) Technical Assistance accounted for 34.5 per cent (or SDR 2.8
million) of the loan, thus, had the highest share of the Credit compared to other
categories. Purniture, Equipment and Vehicles category was next to Technical
Assistance with 26.5 per cent share of the total Credit; while Civil works and
Construction equipment and materials had 19 and 15 per cent of the total,
respectively. In-service Training and Project Administration were accounted to
have equal sharoe of 2 per cent each.
I.



TABLE: CREDIT ALLOCATION BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
in 000 SDR
Scbedule I of the Credit                          Amendment to Scheduk I
CATEGORY                                     Agreement                                       May 7, 1987
Amount in    % of        % of expenditure         Amount       % of      Diffeece
SDR         total      to be finnced             in SDR       totl       in SDR
1. Civil WorIs                           600.0        7.5       60% of total              1,540.0       19          940.0
expendituecs
2. Contructionequipment                  500.0        6         100% of foreign           1,214.0       IS          714.0
and materals                                                 expenditures
60% of Iocl
expenditures            ____
3. Funiture Equipment and              2,430.0        3035      100% of foreign           2,100.0       26         0330.0)
vehicles (including local                                    expenditures and 80 %
transpoiaton services)                                       of local
expenditures for
imported itenm
purchased loally
end for bcal tnra-
_________________________________    __________      _________   poaStion  services
4. Technical Assisance                  1,730.0       21.5      100% of forign            2,780.0        34.5      1,050.0
expenditurels and
80% of local
expenditures
6. Proect Administration                 130.0         1.5      50% of tot                 150.0         2           20.0
expenditures
7. Unallocated                          2,140.0       27           -                        66.0         1        (2.074.0)
Totals                           8,000.0      100                                  5,000.0      100



- 49 -
Actual Costs
2.88      As shown on the Project Cost, the actual project cost was Us$ 11.02
million as compared to US$ 13.0 million estimated at appraisal; or, in other
words, 85 per cent of the appraisal forecast.
Construction Costs
2.89      The actual costs of construction (civil works plus construction
equipment and materials) amounted to US$ 4.4 million or 40 per cent of the total
cost of the project as against US$ 3.7 million or 28.5 per cent of the Appraisal
Estimates (including contingencies); thus exceeding the appraisal estimates by
US$0.7 million or 19 per cent. The increase of the actual expenditures of the
construction costs originated from price increase and from some additions.
Furniture. EouiDment and Vehicles
2.90      The total actual cost for this category of expenditure amounted US$
2.86 million or 26 per cent of the total cost of the project compared to US$4.4
million or 33.5 per cent of the appraisal, including contingencies.
Technical Assistance
2.91      The actual cost of Technical Assistance accounted for US$3.1 million
or 28 per cent of the total cost while at appraisal it was estimated to be US$2.9
million or 22.5 per cent of the total project expenditures. Expenditures not
foreseen at appraisal like Payments of the Somali Magistrate of Accounts
services, expenses for the preparr :ion of the Fifth Education Project, seminars
and study tools purchased are to be inlcuded in the causes for the cost overruns
in Technical Assistance.
In-Service Training
2.92      In-service Training cost 3.5 per cent (or US$0.37 million), and was
financed equally by the Somali government and the IDA.   With an appraisal
estimate of 12 per cent (or US$1.53 million) it is evident that this category of
expenditures has experienced a 76 per cent (or US$ 1.16 million) decrease.
Proiect Administration
2.93      The actual expenditures in project administration amounted US$0.315
million or 2.5 per cent as against US$0.43 or 3.5 per cent at appraisal.
Credit Disbursements
2.94      As shown on Table: IDA Disbursements, on Feb. 28, 1989, approximately
98 per cent of the Credit had been disbursed and the project had a balance of
0.165 million SDRs still remaining undisbursed. IDA paid 82 per cent of the
total cost compared to 78.5 per cent at appraisal, while the Somali Government's
contribution on project's financing is estimated at approximately 18 per cent as
against 21.5 per cent at appraisal - see Table: Project Financing.



Tables Proiect Financina (in '000 US$/So. ob.)
Cost in us$                          cost in Do. ob.
CATEGORY           Total     Government       IDA          Total      Government        IDA
I1 & 2 Constructi2n
Costs and Civil
Works + construction    4,400.1      1,435.3      2,964.8      169,451.0      63,203.4     106,247.6
equipment and
materials
3. furniture,
Equipment and
Vehicles             2,858.0       159.0       2,699.0      297,414.0      7,982.0      289,431.0
(including local
trasnportation
service)
4. Technical            3,075.8        42.4       3,033.4      155,889.0      5,022.2      150,866.8
Assistance
5. Inservice             368.3        184.15       184.15       29,824.8     14,912.4      14,912.4
Training
6. Project               315.0        185.8        129.2        22,624.2      11,747.3     10,876.9
Administration
Totals          11,017.2      2,006.6      9,010.6      675,203.0    102,867.3    572,335.6



Table: IDA Disbursements by Category
Amount of the      % of        amount         Disbursement    Balance as
CATEGORY            credit          total      disbursed         as % of            of
(amended                                 amount allocated  February
amount                                                     28, 1989
1 & 2 Construction
Costs and Civil
Work + construction       2,754.0          34         2,665.6             96              88.4
equipment and
materials
3. Furniture,
Equipment &
Vehicles              2,100.00         26.5        2,136.2            102            (36.2)
(including local
transportation
service) .
4. Technical              2,780.0         34.5        2,788.0            101             (8.0)
Assistance                        l _
5. Inservice               150.0            2          133.5              89             16.8
Training_
6. Project                 150.0            2          112.3              75             37.7
Administration
7. Unallocated             66.0             1           --                --             66.0
Totals                 8,000.0          100        7,835.3             98             164.7



- 52 -
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT
Proilect Management
2.95      The project Lmplementation unit (PIU) of the Ministry of Education
(MOE) was responsible for the implementation, financial and administrative
control  of  the  project.    The  same  unit was  also  responsible  for  the
implementation of the first, second and third IDA-assisted projects in Somalia.
The present project covered a six year program from 1981 to 1986, with an
expected Credit Closing Date of March 31, 1987. However, since the project could
not come to an end, the continuation of the activities became necessary and the
association was approached for an extension of one year, with a Closing Date of
March 30, 1988. Although the PIU performed remarkably well in trying to meet
that deadline, yet many activities remained to be implemented, and the government
was compelled to approach the Association for a second extension of one year with
a final Closing Date of March 30, 1989. Both extensions were acceptable to IDA.
2.96      The reason for these extensions resulted from:
(a)   For  the  first  three  years,  the  project  implementation
overlapped with uncompleted activities from the preceding Third
Education  Project.    Thus  some  of  the  activities  to  be
implemented in those years were relegated to the later years
causing unnecessary concentration of tasks which delayed the
completion of the project on time.
(b)   The multiple procedural activities involved in the ICB and LCB
such as the preparation of bidding documents, masterlist, etc,
delayed the project to complete at the planned period.
(c)   Furthermore, the use of funds saved from the project, because
of devaluation of the local currency and agreed to be utilized
for the preparation of the fifth project, necessitated the
continuation of the project.
Physical Implementation
2.97      The school design unit of the PIU was responsible for the design,
working drawings and supervision of construction of the project institutions.
The construction contained in this project was not very different from the
previous projects, hence the design unit followed the previous construction
documents and consulted with the Somali Engineering agency of the Ministry of
Public works for review and other remarks. Although this was the case, a civil
engineering was recruited under the technical assistance category to update the
capabilities of the design unit and to further improve the quality of educational
facilities.   But, as a result, not much exchange has been observed in the
designing, and the construction replicated that of the previous projects.
2.98      All civil works under the schedule of accommodation of the project have
already been completed. But delays were experienced in the award of contracts



- 53 _
for some of the construction activities, because they were either located in
remote areas or the financial allocations for the proposed civil construction
were not attractive enough.  Bids under this category were performed under local
competitive bidding,  and were advertised locally in accordance with local
procedures acceptable to the Association, and were awarded subject to the consent
of the Association.
2.99      For the procurement  of science equipment,  school  furniture and
vehicles, PIU resorted to international competitive bidding, as well as
procurement through a UN agency (UNICEF), while at the same time allowing for the
domestic manufacturers  to participate with a marginal preference of 152.
Although PIU has followed the normal guidelines, latent delays have resulted from
the lengthy procedures involved in ICB, and consequently affected equipment
distribution and installation at the various project institutions. In connection
with this, observable delays resulted from the procurement of vehicles and some
of the equipment through UNICEF. Despite the fact that UNICEF tried to fulfill
its commitment on time, yet the multiplicity of procedures involved in the re-
imbursable procurement system were impossible to by pass, and hence affected the
plan of operations of the project.
Disbursements
2.100     Withdrawal of Credit proceeds was done strictly in accordance with the
World Bank laid down disbursement procedures. All withdrawal applications were
processed in line with the disbursement percentage for local and foreign,
expenditures as outlined in the Categories of expenditure in the Credit
Agreement. Under the categories of local transportation, In-service Training and
Project Administration, withdrawals were made against SOE (Statement of
Expenditure) and the supporting documents retained by the PIU for eventual
inspection. The system of direct payment to the beneficiaries and reimbursement
to the PIU account for the expenses incurred locally was fully adhered to. For
the purpose of meeting local payments, the PIU maintains a revolving fund account
with Central Bank of Somalia and all reimbursements used are to be credited to
this account in Somali shillings. In the Accounts section of the PIU, there is
a national staff member who fully maintains, by category, all expenditure records
- both the IDA and Government financing. The PIU also locally hired the services
of an Expatriate Expert who processes all withdrawal applications and monitors
the Credit expenditures and disbursements.
2.101     The main problem the PIU was faced with at times was the delay in
getting the reimbursements credited  to the local account.   Many factors
contributed to these delays such as postal delay, lack of clear directives from
the Disbursement Division as well as, at times, non-receipt of directives, as
mentioned by the Central Bank. Many times PIU has to follow up the pending
reimbursements and get the matter sorted out, which obviously involved delay in
getting the amounts credited to the account. In the early stages of the Credit
disbursements, the PIU was not getting the individual credit disbursement advises
of withdrawal applications regularly, and at times there was considerable delay
in getting these advises. However the problem was rectified to a good extent.



- 54 -
Auditing
2.102     The Auditing of the project accounts was carried out by the Magistrate
of Accounts every year in the form and manner acceptable to the Association. All
records, vouchers, withdrawal applications, Statement of Expenditures were
inspected and checked by the Magistrate of Accounts and the relevant audit
certificate submitted to the Association. The IDA supervision missions, also in
the course of their visit twice in every year, monitored all the activities of
the project components, their progress, disbursements, as well as evaluation of
the works completed with suggestions for improvements/modifications wherever
found necessary.
Summary
2.103     Apart from these delays and the co-existence with another project at
the inception of the two projects, the intended project has attained its
objectives as concerns the physical implementation. Meanwhile, at this stage it
is too early to assess the educational impact the project was to impart to the
target groups.  A major constraint-recurrent costs- is faced by the project
institutions in regard to further development. This has to be considered while
assessing the performance of the project. Funds resulted from the devaluated
local currency and accrued into the Credit have been utilized in the preparation
of the forthcoming Fifth education project.



- 55 -
B. SYNOPSIS OF PART II PREPARED BY IDA
2.104     The assessment by the Borrower confirms the broad findings of Part I
and Part III of the PCR. The assessment also explains on several occasions the
background of some of the policy steps and measures taken by the Borrower, for
example, on secondary education expansion program; on teacher training at Lafole;
on physical facilities; and on project administration and management. The para.
2.104 below highlight the observations of the Borrower on key issues that arose
under the Somalia Fourth Education Project.
Cia macro policy environment:
2.105     Project design and content drew much of their justification from a
given policy framework. Considering the limited life within which projects must
achieve their aims, it is necessary that they be supported by a relatively stable
policy environment. Some of the economic and policy assumptions on which this
program was designed, failed to hold during the period of implementation. Policy
changes were inevitable, but during their formulation closer attention could have
been given to the implications of the policy changes to the attainment of
designed project objectives.
On teacher trainin.
2.106     The teacher training programs supported under the project could not be
termed successful owing primarily to wea!ness in their designs. Majority of the
primary school teachers who were upgraded are no longer in primary school
teaching. Those trained to become secondary school teachers may be well grounded
in their subject specializations but are not adequately prepared to teach them
in the context of the Somali classroom environment. Moreover, there has not been
any noticeable impact on the quality of those who have been trained, either
academically or professionally.   In addition, none of the Primary Teacher
Training Res3ource Centers (PTTRC) has become functional and it has not been
possible to make use of the facilities for the purposes for which it was
provided.
On scinec kito
2.107     One potential impact of the project was eliminated when the resources
allo.ated for the science kits were diverted. Primary school teachers have had
no access to teaching aids, reference materials, or any other instructional
materials to help them become better teachers. The science kits were originally
intended as an innovative input that had the potential to make a dramatic
positive impact on the quality of teachers, especially in their ability to teach
science subjects, where they have been the weakest.
On secondary education
2.108     The investments  in secondary  schools  are  likely  to be grossly
underutilized, in light of the drastically reduced enrollment. Originally, the



- 56 -
sites of the four new secondary schools were chosen in the new settlement areas
for nomads. But the nomads, during the period of project implementation, having
restocked their herds of livestock started to leave the settlement areas in large
numbers, either to return to their areas of origin or to Gulf states for
employment. To avoid decline of enrollment, the government decided to relocate
the schools.   But the substituted locations did not seem to provide better
alternatives; for example, the Eyl was also the home of settled nomadic
community, whereas in Jalalaqsi, half of the school enrollments came from the
refugee population, who were expected to be repatriated to their country of
origin.  Conversion of the remaining schools into single streams, instead of
double streams as proposed in the project, also reduced the enrollment.
SIDAH
2.109     One of the major successes of the project is the institutional
development for SIDAM. The goal of building SIDAM's institutional capacity to
provide good quality programs in management and commercial education has been
achieved. Within a span of 3 years, 799 participants have acquired management
skills, and 240 have completed degree programs. This sudden influx of trained
accountants, administrators and managers has vastly improved administrative and
management efficiency and use of computer and other advanced office technologies
in the system. While its financial situation remains fragile and still largely
dependent on donor funds, for the first time a post-secondary educational
institution has acquired some degree of financial autonomy through revenues from
user fees. The Government is considering measures to increase SIDAM's revenue-
generating capability through research and consultancy services.
On Proiect Implementation Management
2.110     The civil works, procurement and financial aspects of the project were
well managed. But on educational aspects of the project there has been lack of
coordination among the PIU, various departments of the MOEC, and actual project
institutions. Modifications and corrective actions that could actually have been
made during the course of the project implementation were not made, especially
when it appeared that under prevailing economic and policy environment, many of
the assumptions were not realistic and planned targets were not achievable. The
Government and the Association were equally responsible for that.



- 57 -
PART III: PROFILE OF THE PROJECT



3.1 RELATED IDA CREDM
Credit                                               Year of
Title             Purpose                            Appraisal          Status             Comments
247-SO            (a) To improve the quality of        1971             Completed          A Completion Report concluded that the
technical education.                                 on 30 Sept.        project had been successful especially with
(b) To diversify tho curricula                       1976               regards to the establishment (institution
in genral secondary schools,                                            building) of now arojects im.lementation and
(c) To increase the enrolment                                           school design units wh ch we' a progressively
capacities of secondary                                                 staffed with qualified Soa.. .a as expatriate
schools. two technical                                                  advisors were phased out.  The report's main
institutes and the primry                                               reservation was whether the diversified
teacher training section of                                             curriculum introduced in sevoral secondary
the Lafole Colleg  of                                                   schools by the project was really an
Education.                                                              important education objective.  The
(d) To develop a local                                                  introduction of industrial arts subjects into
capacity for design and                                                 the schools had been less than successful
implemetation of school                                                 because of a lack of craft subject teachers
facilities,                                                             as well as student resistance to such
subjects at the expense of acadmic subjects.
This problem has continued in the general
secondary schools being assisted in the
second education project to such an oxtent
that the Govornment has abandoned, at least
temporarily, the teaching of industrial
subjects. This approach was acceptable to            u'
IDA and therefore, the diversified curriculum         D
was not included in the new general secondary
schools provided in tho Fourth Education
Projet.
51-SO          (a) To support Government's         1974            Completed          A Completion Report concluded that the actual
policy to premote basic                              on March           outcome derived from assessmente of
education and reduce                                 31, 1981           educational objectives attained and of
Illiteracy by  sutablishing an                                          results arrived at in physical implementation
dditional primary teacher                                               as compared to statoemnts in the Appraisal
training collge and an                                                  Report and the Credit Agreements, cannot be
Academy of Somali studies.                                              termed a reasonable succese. The
(b) To enablo additional                                               shortcomings of th  project were attributed
secondary schools to offer the                                          to the shortcut approach during preparation
diversified curricula                                                   and appraisal (where only one mission covered
Introduced in the first                                                theose 2 stage  of the project cycle), the
project.                                                                innovative components (the nonformat
(c) To establish nomadic                                               education of nomads where Bank and borrower
training centers.                                                       had not prior experience) which were
introduced without comparative references and
did not havo a built-in evaluation mechanism,
and the lack of institutional capacity. It
also criticized the aspects of the project
(secondary schools) which were extensions
from the first education project adopted



without benefit of evaluation of that
project's experience.
738-SO          (a) To improve the quality of       1977             Completed          A completion report which compared project
education through curriculum                         in March           objectives ard content vith actual outcoms
development, teacher upgrading                       1986               found the project to have been largely
and teaching/learning                                                   Successful, although full assessment of
materials production,                                                   educational outcome will be possible only
(b) To promote basic education                                         after each project institution will have been
and skill training among youth                                          In operation for a number of years.  The
and sdults,                                                             major Issues identified were (a) the absence
(c) To promote specialized                                             of provision under the project for the
manpower training In animal                                             storage and distribution of textbooks, due to
husbandry, forestry and para-                                           insufficient attention devoted to this area
medical services.                                                       of textbooks operation during appraisal; (b)
(d) To develop a system of                                             the losses of most long-tern fellows to jobs
trade testing and skilled                                               abroad where salaries are such higher,
workers' upgrading.                                                     leding one major donor to cease offering
(e) To identify training needs                                          long-ter fellowships; (c) inedequate funding
in public aduinistration and                                           for recurrent costs; and (d) damage to
management.                                                             furniture during transport from the capital
to the project institutions. As a guide to
future Bank projocts, fellowships should be
reviewed from the point of view of better
selection, Improved career incentives and
even increasing the numbr of fellowships as
may be warranted in specific cases, the
deiglr of projects should be such as to
require minimal increases in recurrent costs;
and that furniture be dsigned and delivered
in components to the project institution and
assembled at final destination. The study
likewise recommended  thorough study of tho
decline in primary level enrollments.



- 60 -
3.2 PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date            Date             Date
Project Stea.         Planned          Rovised          Actual
Reconnaissance/                           -             9-19 November 1978
Identification
Post-identification     -                 -             1-12 April 1979
Preparation           Sept/Oct. 1979      -             6 Nov-9 Doe 1979
Appraisal             Doc. 1979        Feb/Mar. 1980    25 Feb-13 March 1980
Crodit Negotiation    Oct. 1980           -             1-6 December 1980
Board A9proval        Dec. 1980        24 Feb. 1981     B March 1981
Credit Signature                          -             17 April 1981
Credit Effctiveneee    21 July 1981    21 Sept. 1981    16 October 1981
Credit Completion     8o Sept. 1986    30 Sept. 1987    80 September 1988
Credit Closing        31 March 1987    31 Mar. 198      31 March 1989
Comments
3.2.1      At the post-identification stage, the major issues raised within
the Bank on project content were: (a) the need for more deta!ls in terms of
the critical skill areas which are in dire need in Somalia and to make more
specific the modes of training; and (b) the advisability of having a
general secondary education component while Government did not hrlve yet a
decision on (i) the curriculum orientation of secondary education, (ii) the
rate of expansion projected for secondary education and (iii) the
curriculum for the stretched primary system.  The Government, during
project preparation reiterated its priority for the establishment of six
vocational centers (in three agricultural and three fisheries settlement
areas) to meet the educational requirements of post-primary school leavers;
one half of the cost of the proposed project was allocated to this
component.
3.2.2      Bank Lsview of the project content at pre-appraisal pointed to
the substantial risk in any heavy investment in post-primary low-level
vocational training in an economy like Somalia's which is not one of the
more diversified and because of the absence of any guarantee that the
recurrent costs of post-primary technical programs would be significantly
less than that of general secondary schools nor that the foreign exchange
burden of maintaining expensive workshop equipment which these programs
would require could be sustained.  The question of the availability of
technical teachers was also raised.  The suggestion of the review meeting
had been (a) to reduce this project item and instead accord priority to the
training of managerial administrative and clerical personnel, an area of
need which was clearly identified in the Bank-financed Manpower Survey
published in 1979, and (b) to include a project item on pre-investment and
evaluation studies such as the evaluation of the Nomadic Training Center, a
physical facilities inventory of primary schools and a tracer study of
secondary school graduates.
3.2.3      At appraisal, the mission's recommendations had been the
deletion of support for the six vocational centers due to an almost
complete lack of vocational teachers and because the community education
centers at the three agricultural settlements financed under Education II
(Credit 511-SO) have remained idle and unused for over a year since
completion in early 1979. The two fishery settlement areas were found to
be too small while the third had substantially dropped its fishirg activity



- 61 -
in view of the low present and potential economic return from fishing
activities. Instead, it proposed for technical assistance to carry out two
comprehensive long-term development plans in technical educational/
vocational training and in commercial/management training. A particular
point of issue was the mission's recommendation that the Government
stabilize enrollments in general secondary schools at the 1980-81 levels to
allow resources to be diverted to strengthening industrial training, even
though (i) nowhere in the mission report was there any specific
justification for the need for industrial training; (ii) the project was
actually financing expansion of secondary education; (iii) proposed
existing evidence suggest that expanding vocational and technical education
as a replacement for general education was economically and socially
unjustified; and (iv) covenants that limit school expansion have been shown
to have one of the highest rates of non-compliance. The consensus reached
was that enrolment in general secondary education could be expanded
according to estimated manpower and financial requirements. With respect
to the project item on establishing four new general secondary schools, the
reason offered by the appraisal mission was that of equity; findings of the
1979 Manpower Survey were to the effect that present level of output of
secondary schools was adequate for the needs of the country.  The mission's
subsequent suggestion to limit enrollments in the first two years (vs. four
years) only led to a new issue that Bank assistance would be used to create
schools which have no precedence in the country's school system.  This
issue was settled by an overall reduction in enrolment size, with two
schools having two streams and the other two with only one stream through
all four grades.
3.2.4     Another major issue which cropped up had to do with the proposal
of the Program Department to include a study of the Somali Civil Service,
which would focus on the policy of automatic hiring of secondary school
graduates, promotion, salary structure and training. It has been the
experience of the Bank that project items added as an afterthought
particularly at the yellow cover stage have been largely unsuccessful.
Considered somewhat distantly connected but nevertheless relevant to
education where one sees that the outputs of the education system of
Somalia are largely employed in th. civil service, agreements were reached
to include the project together with a suitable covenant that would ensure
Bank's participation initially in the review of the terms of reference of
the study, and subsequently in the review of the study's findings and
recommendations, and in the implementation of a mutually agreed program for
improving public employment.
3.2.5     The Credit Agreement was amended twice to accommodate extensions
of closing date from March 31, 1987 to March 31, 1988 and then to March 31,
1989.



- 62 -
TABLE 3.3
ESTITATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(in US$)
Table 3.3.a. Estimated and Actual Dloburse3ents (in US Dollars)
FISCAL YEAR         QUARTER           APPRAISAL RSTIMATES              ACTUAL
1982                     1                   100,000                        0
2                   100,000                        0
3                   200,000                        0
4                   200;000                   10.221
1983                     1                   300,000                        0
2                   300,000                  27,341
3                   400,000                   28,463
4                   500S000                   34.762
1984                     1                 1,000,000                 446,285
2                 1,200,000                 657,724
3                 1,200,000                 695,313
4                 1.200.000                 608.967
1985                     1                   800,000                        0
2                   600,000                 316,586
3                   500,000                  781,031
4                   400.000                 562.182
1986                     1                   300,000                  144,314
2                   300,000                 264,506
3                   200,000                 617,703
4                   200_000                 402_315
1987                     1                    100,000                211,465
2                   100,000                  189,900
3                                           215,657
4                                            153.450
1988                     1                                            45,337
2                                         1,132,305
3                                           655,236
4                                           404.666
1989                     1                                            133,994
2                                             75,614
3                                            100,551
4                                             93,043
1990                     1                                             44,032
2                                             16.299
TOTAL--                                    10.200.00-              9.069.262
Estimated and Actual Diabursements (in US$ million)
PISCAL YEAR    FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90
Appraisal
Estimate        0.6    2.1    6.7    9.0   10.0   10.2        -       -      -
Actual         0.01    0.1    2.5    4.2    5.6    6.4    8.6    9.0    9.1
Actual as
2 of Estimate   1.6    4.8      37     47      56     63     84      88     89



Table 3.3.b Disbursement by Quarter (in SDRs)
PERIOD DATES              DISBURSEMENTS       CUM. DIS8URSEMENTS    PERCENT DISBURSED   (HISlORICAI  USS EQ)
10/01/81   -  12/31/81                     .00                     .00               .0
01/01182   -  03/31/82                      .00                     .00               .0
04/01/62   -  06/30/82                9.204.01                9.204.01                .1              10.221.97
07/01182   -  09/30/82                      .00               9,204.01                .1
10/01182   -  12/31/82               25.60B.41               34.812.42                .4              27.340.56
01101/83   -  03/31/83               26.072.90               60.885.32                .8              28.463.00
04/01/83   -  06/30/83               32.274.04               93.159.36               1.2              34.762 00
07/01/83   -  09/30/83              421.583.15              514.742.51              6.5              446.284.45
10/01/83   -  12/31/83              624.392.87            1.139.135.38             14.3             6571723.79
01/01/04   -  03/31/84              671.195.09            1.810.330.47             2;.7              695.313.43
04/01/84   -  06/30/84              585.516.80            2.395.847.27             30.0              608.966.52
07/01/84   -  09/30/94                      .00           2.395.847.27             30.0
10/01/84   -  12/31/84              318.252.95           2.714.100.22              34.0             316.585.95
01/01185   -  03/31/85              804.593.09            3.518.693.31             44.1              781.030.69
04/01/85   -  06/30/e5              566.870.87            4.085.564.18             51.2              562.182.11
07/01/05   -  09/30/85              139.S07.65            4.225.071.83             53.0              144.314.52
10/01/85   -  12/31/85              246.049.43           4.471.121.26              56.1             264.506.32
01/01/86   -  03/31/86              552.871.82            5.023.993.08             63.0              b17.702.69
04/01/86   -  06/30/86              345,171.62           5.369.164.70              67.3              402.315.44
07/01/86   -  09/30/86              175.481.43           5.544.646.13              69.5              211.465.38
10/01/86   -  12/31/86              157.182.97           5.701.829.10              71.5              189.063.33
01/01/87   -  n3/31/87              173.994.13           5.875.823.23              73.7              21S.E58.67
04/01/87   -  06/30/87              119.109.72           5.994.932.95              75.2              153.449.96
07/01/87   -  09/30/87               35.165.48           6.03C.098.43              75.6               45.33b.90
10/01/87   -  12/3liP7              809.826.79           6.839.925.22              85.8           1.132.305.42
01/01/88   -  03/31/88              483.770.57           7.323.695.79              91.9              655.235.73
04/01/88   -  06/30/89              291.8s1.79            7.615.507.58             95.5              404665.s85
07/01/88   -  09/30/be              103.090.85            ?.718.598.43             96.8              133,993.65
10/01/88   -  12/31/P9               56.040.S2           7.774.639.25              97.5              75.61?.65
01/01/89   -  03/1l/pS               76.238.58            7.853.677.83             98.5              lOt.5-U.6s
04/01/89   -  0L/30D/S-              7c.453.11            7.925.330.94             99.4               93.042.73
07/01/89   -  09/30/b9               34.953.74            7.960.284.48             99.8               44,031.19
10/01/89   -  12/31/09               1_.763.37           7.973.048.05             100.0               16.299.29



- 64 -
TABLE 3.3.c
Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(in SDR)
Original Allocation as   Actual
Catesory     Description               rer Credit Agreement      Disbursement
1.        Civil Works                      600,000            i,454,060.03
2.        Construction Equipment           500,000            1,213,944.18
and Materials
3.        Furniture, Equipment,          2,430,000            2,201,743.29
& vehicles (including
local transportation
services
4.        Technical Assistance           1,730,000            2,838,858.42
5.        In-Service Training              470,000              148,454.56
6.        Project Administration           130,000              115,987.56
7.        Unallocated                    2,140,000                        -
Amount Disbursed                       -            7,973,048.04
Amount Cancelled                       -               26,951.96
TOTAL                         8,000,000            8,000,000.00



3.4          Prolect I,lemeettion
Indicators                                   Appraisal              Actual                 Comments
1. Primary nd Secondary Techer
Tra 1ing
1.1 Construct, furnish *nd equip                  S                   6                    All civil works conpleted but furniture and
Prlimry Tacher Training Centers                                                            equipment are atilt In the PIU warehouse.
None of the centere Is operational as yet.
The PTTRCe in Dusanareb, Sheikh Bashir and
Quryoley are unlikely to be utillsd as
decentralized centers for pre-service and in-
service training of primary school tachers.
MOE's plans are to establish regional centers
in the more conenient locations of Galkayo,
Horgelos and Marks, repectively.  This
defeato the purpose of the project of
assisting the Government in Its
decentralization efforts and means fresh
investments for building new centers.
1.2 Distribute Educational Kite to             8,000                                       This component was not lmplemnted and funds
Prim-ry Schools                                                                            earmrked for It went Instead to the purchase
of equipment for th, newly-established PTTIs
in Mogadishu and largelos; the Haewi0s PTTI,
however, clod after just one year of
operations. An opportunity for boosting the
efficiency and morl-e of newly-trained
teachers was lost by this action. 
1.3 Train primary school teachers             1,520                                        For 2 summers, no training took place bcause
yearly                                      of Governmnt's lack of recurrent bude. In
none of the yers the project was Implemented
was the annual targnt resched. And none of
the training progras bws itted froe the
facilitie, i.e. PTTRCS, intended for the
purpose.
1.4 Returbish and re-equip                      2                    0                     All works and procurement iaplemented, except
laboratories and classroos                    mnyears                                      the technical assiotance prt due to failure
Instructional equipment to Lafole                                                          In recruitment; tho allocation was
College of Education.  Technical                                                           rechanneled to SIDAM when the project was
assistance to Lafole Colleg  of                                                            drawing to a close. Lafolo's facilities and
Education,                                                                                 equipment are In great ned of maintenance.



2. Secadr  Edctlo.1
2.1 Construct/renovato laboratory                 10 schools               10 schools               All civil works completed.  About 165 of
facilities and provide furniture and                                                                furniture *nd equ;ip t,  r*n  still in the PIU
equipent to oxisting schools.                                                                       warehouse.  Of tho existing  econdary schools
where aItional works (laboratory,
clssroms, toilet) were to bt undrtakon,
expansion In total *rea (in a) was II
eyo0   appraisal eetimates, freo 718 a  to
850 p.
2.2 Build, furnish and equip mm                     4                       4                       The now schools were not built in the
schools.                                                                                            locations (eW settlement ares) as agreed *t
appr.is: because other donors have provided
assistanc  to thos  places with IDA approval.
Information on hw the sw sites were chosen,
including the review _do by IDA, wat not
available from rocord.   Horwst, 2 of the
nw schools visitod daring the pro3ect
completion mlslon are In an agricultural
(IVarery) area and in smi-urban ara (Lafole
Secondary School). The science laboratory
furniture and equipment intended for Eyl,
Jnatlaksi and Nomddor are to be channelod to 9
other schools with adequate enrol l ts and
with utilities required to operate the
laboratory facilities.  Overall, the building
areas incesd by 202 from             ostalated
at appraisal (from 4,800 a2 fto       ay                   I
.Prosvd tscheival _eai_s lo SliMS                 20                       22 mnyear                The 2 additional _Ware caem froa Lafol-' lloction
mm yaisr                                          Th. tand were uted to eatud C'e cntract oeabl. ;t to
=i* the foletian of the o wrs by the third
or  dentfe   s aso for lb _rte  of atnpummnt
and vehicle,for SI.
4. Preide tical Mia_ *cer   d.c o                 4                       2.5                      rre-;vtnt. adies ca rci/a             t edctio
_i..                                               mywer.                    re                      ad vocat.,analJtechocal adscst-i  -ad tha waIustian of the
eSfdic Training Cen    We  carried  t b        d
l4terjci.nca Research Corp.. * usspc ivaly for  totl o2.5
mnyer* AhI provided CGS with a,ltsjtnts for the
civil a;erc Otowdy wAn this explairs t. non-was of 1.5
5. Pr_ido te_i_,cal _ami sed                        3.5                    11.2                     Technical asedtanc paid for the sarvios of the civil
_pipw_h Poject #ARist;.                             enysara                m a                      en    42  aW  and the accountant (7.0 snyera).
A a     . e  ilt bte Phu for the *torage of building
mentanle.
Source Aipra e-l Reort and pieio; With Phi.



Table 3.3.d. Credit Disbursements (Cr. 1105-SO)
<    !~~~~~~~~~~~' --
U15       S3         "         K         .t       *,         v ,~  ~   >N---  - I
oYEAR
%A                                  .10~~~~
YEAR
Appraisal Estimates
Actual Disbursements



6.E S111I= COSTS
APPRAISAL                                                         ACTUAL
Shillngs (ii)                  1156 (U)                           USS (U) us53 (a)
Project Item                   Local    FrIgn   Total        Local   ForelIgn   ToteI       LoCel    Forelgn   total       Local   Foreign    Total
1. Civil v arts, Furniture,
Equl _ t & Vehicl
. CosatlUctlo. a Equilment
Waterlal                        -        -          -         -         -          -        1.0      19.4       20.4       0.1       1.8       1.4
b. Primary Teacher Traln
eurce Centre                  2.7      11.8       14.6       0.6       1.6        2.8      11.1      57.0       "-.        0.1       0.6       0.7
c LafMl Colleg  of Educotion    1.I        8.8        4.6       0.2       0.1        0.7       8.6 O     0.1       U8.7       0.1       0.4       0.5
d. Cbnnl Seconadry Sceool       10.6      10.4       206.       1.7       2.6        4.2      65.0      272.1      827.1      1.3       8.8       4.0
*  Som_l   sItute of 0ev.
Adie &    _ seeet             0.1       1.7         1.3       -        0.        O.a        -         -          -
f Project Unlt Wares             0.6       0.6        1.2        -        0.2        0.2       0.8       0.1       0.4       0.02      0.01      0.08
SU TOTAL                  16.0     8380       4t.6       2.4       5.8        7.7      71.0      373.7      449.7     1.82      5.68       7.8J
2. Technical Assaeitso           2.1      16.4       20.        0.8       8.0        8.8 I.0            160.9      155.9    0.04        S.0       8.0        ca
6. Ia-Sonic. Traintg             5.1       4.2        9.8       0.       0.7        1.5      14.9      14.9       29.3       0.2       0.2       0.4
4. Preject Adulnistration        I.7        1.0        2.8      0.8       0.2        0.5      12.0      29.o       41.0       0.1       0.2       0.8
TOTAL                    28.9       U         61.9       8.6       9.2       18.0      102.9    S74.1       677.0      2.0       9.0      11.0
1. incluedln Coatingecli.
NMteua                                                                           AVERACE YEAfRLY EXtHANCE RATES
1. Dm to currency/fl uctutioan both in term  of Some ll Shiling. to US
D llrs s  Uand  llars to SON, It has bee difficult to accurately
seams the act*al situation of tredit spending.                                VEA                EXCHANGE RATE
2. There are olso some 40 applications In a variety of currencies whicb          Appraisal
*rg difficult to convert eccurately to USDollare, *aounting to an
overall sun of US$ 20,000 of a total credit of US119.2 M. Tbis Is             16 Jan. IN1:       USS1  - S1Sh. 6.29
bsecau  according to PIU dloburommant advice for thewe  pplications                  1962:      USJ  - SeSh. 12.40
wore not recelved. Therefore, the *ctual eredit expendituro Is                        198:       USS1 - So.Sh. 15.40
estimated at US19.1 with bbout USS 0.151 o*tl_ated  s undleburced.                   1964:      USSi - SoSh. 2.00
1981:      US6  - loSe. S86.2
8. The averae, yerly oxchange rates over the project period have been                    1996:      USl - So.Sh.  9.79
wood to convert So.Sh. to US5.                                                        1367?      USS1 - S.Sh. 119.6S
1os6:      USS1 - SoSh.  2142.6
4. IDA empsnditre undaf technical assistance include 100S relobursem_t            S1 war 1369:      US$1  - So.Sh. 847.49
of leeel  _peltuneo Ioem" lor the prep rtlcs of th  1Itth  "oject.



- 69 -
TABLE 3.6
PROJECT FINANCING
(in US$m)
Planned
(Credit
Source              Agreement)           Revised              Actual Lj
Civil Works           0.76                1.96                  1.85
Construction          0.64                1.55                  1.55
equipment and
vehicles
Furniture,            3.10                2.68                  2.73
equipment and
vehicle
Technical             2.20                3.55                  3.57
Assistance
In-Service            0.60                0.19                  0.17
Training
Project               0.17                0.19                  0.14
Administration
Unallocated           2.73                0.08                      -
SubTotal             10.20               10.20                 10.01
Government            2.80                2.80                  1.00
TOTAL                13.00               13.00                 11.01
LI As of March 1989
Comments
The increase in technical assistance bridged the financing gap between the
end of the original CSUF contract and the start of the USAID project at
SIDAM through the extension of CSUF's work at SIDAM. The technical
assistance contracts of the project engineer and project accountant in the
PIU were likewise extended to meet the reporting requirements of project
completion.



3.7  PROJECT 3ESMIS
Indicators                   Appraisal               Estimated at          Comments
E5tiiit               Closin  Date
1.     Increasd number of            6,120 teachers         3,291 teachers         Training was limitod to the upper primary (Grades 6-
primary school                                                             8) teachers and did not cover the range of
teachers with proper                                                        curriculum *rone  taught by a primary school teacher.
training.                                                                   Moreover, the objectivo of raising the educational
levol of teachers to tho equivalent of Form 2 was
not pursued. The quality of the 2-month training is
likely to be uneven in the absence of provisions for
the training of course tutors. Indications are that
those who underwent training comprise the vast
majority (80w) of the 300 primary school teachers
who yearly leave primary school teaching for
scholarships at Lafole College of Education. This
translates into only 668 upgraded teachers who have
rmained with primary schools. The training progrom
has succeeded in attracting teachers to upgrade
thmselves but failed In keeping thm in primary
school teaching.
2.     Provision of basic            3,000 kite             Nil                    This component which constituted 13 percent of the
teaching kits provided                                                     credit was deforred twice, initially because of the
to primary schools to                                                      absence of a national consensus as to what would
where course                                                               comprise tho kit and later for lack of plans for             o
participants teach,                                                        distribution, utilization and stock control.
Eventually, the allocation was used to _mt the
equipment requiremets of 2 newly established PTTII
(Mogadiscio and Hargesoa). This suggests inadequate
appraisal of the project, at which stage an early
linkage with the primary school curriculum and the
teacher upgrading courses on one hand and
administrative requirments on the other could have
been made and possible requirem_te for technical
assitonce (expert  or fellowship to neighboring
countries of Kenya and Tanzania where provision of
school equipment Is eoe advanced) provided for.
S.     Incea    I ngh of             From two to            lengthened             Neither the 8-yer nor the 4-year course adequately
the secondary teacher         three years in         furth r to four       addrosed the weaknooss ldentifi ed at appraisal in
education cour  at            AT 1983/84            years beginning        term  of science teaching (methods) and practice
Lafole Colleg  of                                   AY 1984/86.            teaching. Lafole Colleg  of Education is run more
Education, with                                                             like a liberal arts colleg  rather than a teacher
emphasis on science                                                        training institution, producing subject specialists
and practice teaching,                                                     rathor than subject teachers.



4.     Redue d intake of              From 460               Averago 365            The uncontrolled expansion of secondary school
teachar trainees at           graduates p.a.         graduates p.a.         enrollments had meant higher teacher requirements.
Lafolo to avoid               in ST t880/81                                 With decreasing enrollments, MOEC expects a
oversupply of                 to eventually                                 corresponding reduction in the intake at Lafole.
graduates.                    150 p.a.
S.     Increased capacity of          (a) dditional          (a) 778 added          The excess of 374 places was the result of an
general secondary              657 to 3,231          to existing            overall increase in building areas which averaged
schools In romote             existing               schools (b)            18X for existing schools *nd 26% for tho new ones.
rural areas.                  student places         1084 in the new        Up until 1984/86, enrollments in project schools had
in ten existing       schools                exceeded total planned capacity by an average 301.
secondrr                                      Since then, with the decline in enrolment levels
schools and (b)                               nationwide, the situation is one of undorutilized
884 student                                   facilities and equipment and very low
places in four                                student:teach-r ratios.  In 6 project schools
new general                                   visited, enrolment levels were on the average 60X
secondary                                     below capacity and average student-teacher ratio was
seools.                                       10:1.  Two of these schools did not have a Form 1
and a Form 2 enrolment becouse no student from their
feeder schools passed the Std. 8 leaving exam.
6.     Student/teacher ratio          24:1 at least          Average 26:1           The 26:1 ratio counts permanent, part-time (in full
maintained at I1O98I0                                                        tim  equivalent) and non-Somali teachers and
level.                                                                      National Service Volunteers.  It would go up to 34:1
without the latter two and would increase to 43:1 if
only permanent teachers are counted.  National
volunteers had been used by COS to meet teacher
shortages, to the extent of 33X of total teaching
fore in 1982/83.
7.     Policy of expanding            Enrollments            Enrol_mnt              The secondary school sector is showing signs that
general secondary             projected to           levels in              Its eventual size in 1989/90 would be as projected
school enrolment              increase at            1980/61 and            by the project; in 1987/88 enrolment was already
according to manpower         twice and a            1983/84 were 3         down to 86,729 while 1989/90 projection is 33,100.
needs and financial           tioes its              and 6 times            It is noted that the decline in enrolm_ent levels
capability m*inta;ned.        1978/79 level          higher,                began in 1984/85 (and progressively thereafter), the
in 1981/82 and        respectively,          year after the policy of guaranteed employment for
1989/90.              than in                secondary school graduates was abolishod. MLSA has
respectivoly.         1978/79.               estiated that 85X of total secondary school lsavers
from 1983-89 are neither in university nor gainfully
employed.



8.     Improved quality of            Institutional          SIDAM faculty          The third batch of MBA graduates under the project
training of manpower          development of         and manageaent/         received their diplomas from the SIDAM/Somali
in                            SIDAM.                 administration         National University.  Somali faculty and
com arcl/management                                  staff                   administration have assumed full responsibility for
skills.                                              strengthened in        the Third Year Accountancy Progrom for the second
course                 and third intakes.  MBA graduates of program are
development,           well-placed in both public and private economic
teaching and           sector; they are utilized by SIOAM for part-time
academic               teaching.  A new project SOUTAD (Somalia Training
administration;        and Development), supported by USAID, *nsures
likewise,             program continuity until 1991. About 20% of SIDAiM'
library               costs have been covered by fee-paying students for
holdings,              the lst 6 years but its financial viability is still
audio-visual           very fragilo as it* recurront budget has not been
equipment, and         commensurate to its operating and maintenance
computers wore         requirments; for example, no text-books are
enhanced.              provided to the students and supplies for
duplicating instructionol materials are always short
of require_ents.
a.8 STUDIES
Studios                Purpose as DWfined                       Status                                    Impact of Study
at Appraisal
1. Preparation         To review and evaluate        The pre-investment study on technical          There was great interest cn part of
of development         rolevant training             eduetion/vocational training was             COS to utilite the findings of the
plans for              already being offered         undertaken by GTZ In January 1964 and         CTZ study as a basis for a Fifth
technkcal/             In Somali* and in the         was completed In June 1984.  The               Education Project.  However, the
vocational and         light of projocted            report put to light the                        Association in considoring all othor
management/            skilled manpower              Inffictioncloe  of the sub-sector as           project proposals from the various
commercial             needs, preparo a              evidenced by Inadequate recurrent              sectors dropped edocation from its
education              development plan with         budget, ;nefftctive sector and school          londing program in favor of the more
related ovorall               anoagemnt, ill-trained toachers,              productive sectors, and the
capital and recurrent         ovorly theoretical curricula, poorly          associated sector work intndod to
costs and Identify            motivated students and inAdequate              leod up to the project vat  del-ted.
particular it.., for          training facilities, rendering Its            In Its stead, the Bank proposod for
eoarly development,           graduates (of which thore is found            the devolopment of on action program
substantial oversupply) unsuited to           to address the main issues related to
tho requirements of the labor market.         a perceived decline In the quality of
It propoed an *ntirely now training           education which is associated with
systm, catering to a more limited             decreasing enrolmont ratios at all
number of traineoe, as Is consistent          levels of resources that Government
with the manpower roquiremnts of              allocates for education.  In the
Industry.  Specificslty, it                   absence of a single donor who could
recomm nded a three-tiered structure          finance the 10-point reform plan,
of vocational/technical with two-year         then estimated at 820m, tho a most
craft training after primary school           crucial in terms of pro;ect sequence,
followed by one year of practical             I.e. curriculum, Instructional



work In industry, at its base; then             materials and teacher training, wero
one year of reinforcing technical               repackaged and proposed, and
theory leading to a middle technician           subsequently approved for UNDP
qualification, end, at the apex,                funding (32.6m).  The project started
three years of technical college to             implementation in 1988.
qualify as a higher level technician.
At the end of sech stage trainees
would have to pass examinations and
certificated to join the labor market
at their appropriate lvcels. Except
for the undifferentiated training
periods across trades and the absence
of a linkage with the general
education system which would force
students to an irreversible choice
between academic and technical
education at too early a period in
their schooling life, the report's
recommendations are relevant to the
issues faced by the sub-sector.
)4



Studies                Purpose as Defined             Status                                         Impact of Study
at Approiaal
The development plan for comercial/           The implementation of the development
management education was completed by         plan for SIDAM had not only
California State University - Fresno          alleviated the critical shortage of
(CSUF) in late 1982.  It outlined a           manpower in comercial/management
development progrm for SW1AM, which           education but had strengthenod
consisted of a mastcral offering in           SIDAM's faculty and administrative
businss administration, a third year          staff in course development and
accountancy progrm and short term             teaching.  Continuity of the masteral
courJSe  on specialized areas,                program and short courses for
employees of various Ministries and
parastatale is assured until 1991 via
the USAID-funded SOUTAD's Project.
It has become the only post-secondary
institution in the country which is
able to charge fees to students, the
revenue from fees has supported up to
20X of SIDAM's annual operating
coss.
2. In-depth            To evaluate the                The evaluation study  as undertaken            No unit in MyOECC is specifically
evaluation of          effectiveness of the           by the Stockholm-based Interecience            charged with any responsibility over
the Nomadic            NTCs as experimental           Research Corporation in May 1984 and           the NTCs. No none in the MOI is said
Training               institutions assisted          completed in May 1965. The study               to be knowledgeable about the NTC
Centers (NTCs)         under the Second               found the Centers to be suffering              evaluation report. Reports are that
Education Project.             frm various problems; lack of                 none of the NTCs is operating any
coordination among ministries                 programs for the nomads. The
concerned and between national and            prevailing notion of those with some
regional and local levels; unsuitable         familiarity with the project is that
location; lack of recurrent budget,           a delivery system like the NTCs,
blgh operating costs; untrained               stationary and with modern amenities,
teachers; ill-fitting curricula. The          is alien to the environment and
report concluded that the objectives          lifestyle of the nomadic population.
of tbe NTCt  to test the feasibility
and relowvnc of different types of
education and training programs were
not mot. Among Its mjor
recmendationm were to temporarily
limit progrm activities to one NTC
(in Aboorey) for a period of 3 years
and provide adequate manpoer and
budget to really make it work, the
vesting of responsibility for the
progrm to the Non-forml Training
Department of the National Ranyg
Agency, and to undwe ke mjor
progrm and staffing revision*. A
combined IOEC-ID task fore reviewed
and found acceptable, with minor
clarificationn, the study's findinge
and recoendations. Nowever, the



consultant failed to finalize the
report and was therefore not
disseminated.
. Study of the         To assist the                 USAID undertook the study in                  No concerted action program as such
civil service          Coverrment in                 April/May 1984.  A national seminar            to implement the recommendations of
system                 designing an efficient        wag held in the capital from 25 to 28          the study was in place.  However, in
civil service, the            Septembr 1984 to discuss .- report            more limited ways  COS has moved
study would review tho        and prepare iction plan vis-a-vis             towarda trimming the public sorvice
present systm,                recommendations on strengthening for          of redundant personnel and has
Investigate Its               greater efficiency, q doption of sound        declared a moratorium on the hiring
shortcomings and make         personal managemnt practices with             of temporary workers.  It has also
roc -mendations for           respect to the employment of staff at         offered progrems of assistance for
improvemnts in                all levels and Improved training at           Somalia to engage In agricultural and
organizational                both entry and on the Job levels for          fishery production. There is a
structure and in               increased administrative                     pending racoe _ndation from the ULSA
recruitment,                  effectivenes  and professional                to abolish the policy of guaranteed
deployment, promotion         competence.  In spit. of repeated              employment for university graduates.
and renumeration of           follow-ups, no comments on the study
publitc servants,             have been sent by the COS to the
Association up to the lost
Supervision Mission of March 1988.
tn



3.9 STAtUS OF COV9GANTS
Covonants                     Sub] ct                        Deadline for                                      Status
Compl Iance
Sec. 2.04      Closing Date                                  March 31, 1987         Extended twice - to March 31, 1987 to compensat for delays
In tendering civil works one late start in equipment
procurement3 then to March Si, 1M  to oeet outstandiag
paymnts of retention money and to enable the use of
remaining balance of the credit procods for the preparation
of the fifth edueation pro]ect.
Sec. 3.01      Provision of funds, facilities,               Throughout the         Low level of recurront budget experionced throughout; In
services and other resources promptly         project.               1986, no counterpart funds were available from Government
as needed.                                                           sources, except under an sgreemnt with USAID where
commission administered requests for counterpart share of
projects on a claim to claim basis.
Sec. 3.02      Employment of consultants and                 (i) Second             (1) HABITAT was *nqged to administer the ta.  contract with
(a)            specialists                                   quarter 1981           a project *nginoer for the PIU. (ii) Tho pro-investment
for project            study on vocational/technical education suffered a delay of
engineor; (;i)         almost thre years lii ;;ght of arrangements with Unesco that
first quarter          did not materializo and subsequently COS' decision to carry
1982 for               out the study without the use of expatriate assistance;
studies; (ili)         later In 1986, ¢TZ was engaged to do the study.  The
second quarter         evaluation of the nomadlc trani-9 centers was undertaken by
1962 for SIDAM         Interecience Research Corp. In 1*"  a delay of two years.
Eighten man-months of ts. were not avellod for the civil
sorvice study; instead USAID provided aOS Ministry of Labor
the required consultants. (ill) Recrultment of consultant
inostitute for SIDAM (CSU-Fresno) was delayed for *is months
but thereafter proceeded satisfactorily both In the survey
of SIDAM's development needs as the commercial/management
and training center of the country and in tho impl _ ntation
of SIDAM's development plan.
(b)            Employment of qualified persons as            1981                   Met, in the case of Project Director but there was no
Project Director and Project                                         Project Architect.  The services of an architect would have
Architect by the Project Unit.                                       provided more innovative plans, better detailing and more
appropriate forward planning, particularly for the four now
secondary schools.
Sec. 8.03      Prcvision for the insurance of all            Throughout             met.
(a)            Imported goods against all hazards            project period.
incident to acquisition and transport
and delivery.
(b)            Use of all goods and services                 Throughout             met.
financed out of the proceeds of the           project period.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



credit for exclusivo use of tho
proj et until its completion.
Sec. 3.04      Furnish IDA plans, design, documents,          Throughout the         Met.
(a)            specifications, contract documents             project period.
*nd construction and procurement
*chedules and material modifications
thereof.
(b)            Maintain project records and furnish          Throughout              Quarterly progress reporting requirements met.  However,
IDA at rogular Intervals all relevant         project period.         IDA's repeated requests for (a) explanation on the Increase
Information concerning the project.                                  of the socondary teacher training course at Lafole Colleg
of Education to four years (Sec. 3.07 b) as woll as the
increaso In the intako of secondary toacher trainoee and (b)
OS' comments on the civil service study report did not get
a responso.
eC)            Prepare and furnish IDA a report on           Six months              In progress as of April 1989.
the execution and initial operation           after closing
of the project, its costs and                 date.
benefits derived or derivablo from
It, the performance by the Borrower
and the IDA of their respective
obligationo, and tho accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit.
Sec. 3.05      Acquire all land and rights a                  --                    oMet.
required for construction and furnish
evidence of acquisition.                                                                                                             -4
Sec. 8.06      Maintain policy of relating expansion          Each academic          Unmet.
of enrollments in gneral secondary            yar.
schools to 0OS  financial capacity
and manpower neods.
Sec. 3.07      Maintain current student/teacher               Each academic          Met.
Sn)            ratio In general secondary schools at         year.
24:1 at least.
(b)            Increase length of teacher training           AY 1983/84              Met.  However, In AY 1984/86, the program was lenathen*d by
program at Lafole Colleg  of                                          another year without prior consultation with IDA.
Education to three years and include
more *cience and proctice teaching in
the program curriculum.
(c)            Gradual reduction of intake of                AY 1982/83 thru         Unmet.
teacher trainees at Lafole so as to           project
stabiliz  number of graduates at              completion.
about 150 teachers per annum.
Sec. 8.08      Employ an experienced Institute or             March 31, 1982         Agreement with CSU-Fresno entered into Sept. 1982 initially
colleg  to carry out improvements of                                  for two short-term consultants to undertake an asessment of



teaching and administrative education                                needs while execution of the actual teaching and advisory
at SIDAM.                                                            program began June 1983 and ended March 1987.
Sec. 3.09      Complete civil service employment             Dec. 31, 1982          Due to the political sensitivity of tho study, it had to
study on terse of referenc                                           await decislons of the President and the Party Congress.
aoeptable to IDA and consult with                                    Terms of refoeronce for the study was diecussed during
IDA on the studys firdings and                                       negotiations but were never formally approved by the
recommendatlonu and a program of                                     Govornment because of a change in ministers and were agreed
civil servico reform to be mutually                                  to only In March 1983.  ILO, the Government's cholco as
agreed on.                                                           executing agency, submitted a proposal which limited the
scope of civil service pay and the grading structure instad
of a thorough overhaul of public employment and was deeed
Inappropriate. Finally, tho Ministry of Labor and Social
Affairs decided that Its responsibility for Government-wide
personnel operations warranted its own assessment of the
constraints upon tho opportunities for improwsment of the
civil service system.  Con;oquently, data collection,
analysis and formulation of recommendations were carried out
by the Somali Government personnel from the Ministries of
Labor and Social Affairs, Finance and National Planning with
assistaneo from a group of consultants financed by the
USAID. The ropc-t was discussed in a national seminar
(Sept. 25-28, 1984) with a view to drawing up an action
plan.  G0  did not forward to IDA its commnts on the study.
Sec. 8.10      Maintain the staff, duties and                ---                    Met, except In the case of the Project Educator post which
responsibilitioe  of the Project Unit                                was vacant for most of tho project period.
and the School 'eign Unit as are
specified under the First Education
Project and as expended In the
subsequent two Education Projects.
Sec. 4.01      Maintain adequate records, consistent          -                      et.
(a)            with appropriate accounting
practices, of the projects"
operations, resources and
expenditure.
(b)            Maintain separate accounts consistent         Audited reports        Met.  The Magistrate of Accounts, Mogadisciu acted as
with approprliat  accounting practices        due six months         internal auditor.  Annual audit reports were furnished to
and submit to IDA certified expenses          after the end          the IDA promptly, except those for FY1984 and 1986 which
for each fiscal yer duly audited by          of each FY.             were overdu- by five months and 3/4 months rospectively.
independent auditors/
(c)            Retain all evjo--ee for expenditures          Retention of
withdrawn on the basis of certificate         records until
of expenditures and furnish seperate         two years from                                                                         o
opinions of ind pend nt auditors as          Closing Date.--



to whether oxpenditures for service
provide by force account under
categorioe 1,4 & 6 havo beon made and
that such services are eligible for
financing under the Project.
Sec. 4.02      Operate the educational Institution          Partly set.  In
(a)            and facilitios supported by the              the situation
projoct In accordanco wIth                   of the project
ducational and administrative                secondary
policles and practices and with due          schools of
repard to economy as required to             drastically
further the educational objectives of        reduced
the Borrower.                                enrolment vis-
a-vie capacity
lendn to
under-
utilization of
facilities end
very low
student/teacher
ratios, this
was not met.
(b)           Employ full-time qualifled                                           Met.
administratorn and teachers in
adequate numbers to staff the said
educational institutions.
Sec. 4.03      Provide adequate mantenance to the                                  Not met.  For lack of upkeep under harsh climatic
building, equlpmnt and furniture of                                 conditions, the focilittoi  built under the project are
*"id  educational institutions,                                     already In need of substantial repirs.



- 8') -
3 10   U  t           .t   NSS
Stage of Project Cycle       Month/Year          No. Of           Dove in       Specimlization          Pen        Type of
Peren.           Field JA          Repreent.d          rating         Probles
Reconnsisence/                 Nov/78              4                 44         e. CE. TE. AE            __             __
Identif ication
Post-Identification            Apr/79              3                36          E. CE/SA. TE             __             _
Preparation                  NW-Oec/79             5                170         E, CE. Te. AE, A         __             __
Appreisal                    Fob-Mann8o            4                98          E ce. TE 8  A                           __
S.b-Total                                                   348
Supervision I-                 Sept/61             2                16          CE. A/AD                  1              O
II.                 Mar/82              1                 s          CE                                      0
III-                Sept/82              1                 8          C/AD                     1              0
IV 5/                Dec/82              1                 1          CE/AD                    --             --
V.                   Mar/83              2                16          CEAD, A                  1              0
VI S/                "1y/83              I                 I          CE/AD                    --             _
VITO                 Dec/83              2                18          CE/AD  A                 1              0
XIII 6/              Feb/84              1                 1          CE/AD                    --             __
IX                   Feb/84              1                18          M                         -__        __
X 6/                 Apr/84              1                 1          CE/AD                     -_            _
XIO                  Fby/84              2                16          SF/AD.A                  1              0
XII 6o               Oct/84              1                 1          CEAD                     --
XIII_   Dc/84                            2                10         .E/^D   TE                1              0
XIV- eIS!                                1                11          TE                        1             0
XV-       -_          ~                  3                is          TE A. Ad                 -- 
XVI                                      2                1           TE. A                    1              0
XVII                 HeY/87              2                16          TE.A                     1              0
XVII!                Marie               2                211         EP A                     3              0
Sub-tote!                                      ___          199
Coepletion              Mar/89              2                44          CE. A
Totel .                                                   S9
1/   In person-days
2/   E-Economist; GE-General Educator; TE-Technical Educator; AE-
Agricultural Educator; SA-Senior Advisor; A-Architect; AD-
Administrator; MT-Management Training; EP-Education Planner
3/   1-Problem free or minor problems; 2-Moderate problems; 3-Major
problems
4/   O-Overall; D-Development Impact
5/   Missions to Denmark to discuss t.a. arrangements (for Lafole) with
DANIDA on behalf of the Government.
6/   Missions to Sweden to discuss t.a. arrangements with Interscience
Research Coporation on behalf of the Government.



- 81 -
* Up until December 1984, combined with the supervision of Credit 738-SO; in
May 1985 with the PCR mission for same credit and reconnaisance for a possible
fifth project; in Jan/Feb 1982, combined with discussions on future
cooperation.
Comments:
3.8.1    Half the total number of supervision missions were combined in the
supervision of another project, resulting in just an average of 4 days per
visit tor the Fourth Education Project. Overall, 28 staff weeks were devoted
to supervision of this project. It is noted that neither the performance
rating status nor the type of problem being encountered by the project
accurately portrayed the implementation years, such as when not teachers
trairning programs were taking place because of local funding constraints and
that the increase to 4 years of the training course in Lafole went unnoticed
until 2 years after the fact. The issue identified in the last supervision
mission were actually building up as the project was being implemented, and
their negative impact on the project might have been minimized with closer
monitoring of educational objectives. Somewhat of a dilemma here is whether
it is desirable to have the same staff supervising the project for continuity
sake, or to use outside consultants on a periodic basis to insure a fresh
view.



MAP SECTION
.



IBRD 15068R
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
/'
DJIBOUTIB
D iJIBOUTI                                                                                                                      +  0
toyado
Seylo                                                                       Adodo   Bososo             +          A       -
Malt
ro
i                                     9     V                .~~~~~~~ Berbera                                    rigovo            j' SLCZ2DOU.O.
Nob,dd d
Tug WVclle                                                                                         G    |
Gkole,                 A                                                                                          0 Bender Beile
"-6
S 0 M A L I A                                                  "    Bohole AWnod  c-
--8 ~ FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
AA    PPSWARY If AC.0 l. 4A()11ICE C .7T. I Pf8
SECONUJARY TIAC.F. ikOAN,tr_
5LL0515A;1 (I DUAI 1O'.
OL,   COWOf OCiAt AND ?A, NS4'MI I TnAI:4,N|(,
*F    PROAJLCIADMIAI-1f 011, .
LII lMFlOll  US  LXIIflO A.t' R>tSt            
ADMSABA
GftAVLLCAIT l SU&rlAUCD  ROADS
.       AJ I  lA`O T 'alOAyo
+      DOM(STIC A q7IELD,
* IliIPf4ATI(IAAL Pil :LLDS 
_   Dlr'C * O0E1lUN ILS
|             _   _    N~~~~Alt 0lTI(,sA1A  P0 ' SDA "(RS   .                Lk           /         /
tX .   Dso Moreb
FOREFXAC7LOCA IONOFFACILITIES.
REFER TPA77AC)IfDOIS7
l   tfFfS7 ro ATTACHf D IlSr                        *           £&      iFer-e   r%           
A, ~             ~              ~             - / DpI  O1 6
l        '                         <                       73e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fcettAe X    !El Bur  
,,,k          a3:rBuo                                      c-4       
Ganooe' \                                            B               , |                                                                                       A.
4-BuI                N\                                       0       50    '00    150    700    250    300
/   '   v  %  \h fionka     e     r       _  ,___e                                    ~~~~~~~~~~RtOMEYERS
/  ~~    *C~~4        o>-<6~~a.:Joo
i  X  M  t  pA  s  X j : JowhO h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 c-t                                                   0 t4 **0DS S '*f00PO 0   4'00 D,*10.  000..s.n............ *,,Ass1f .S,t,, A. 'AO   ., ,r.AC. 0';l
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'i 00100z -0Dg.so ,f 0 -c -0t:0 olo . 00*X Ai*00 lo.~r>At -.eO 4o,,A'.O.Io £0,.r g'l,00*0/ vl0
;              \ep dr~~~~~-ftenf           B,,g    A ft34    w
'j,                                        r-14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W~  01 0 0 0ilI'31.0'0l10010911000001 
j0~Ofcj1  *-\ OGMOGADISHU                                               ARE;
\ N(* >    jc         GoIueTs   ru0naIe    c                                                                       SAUDI  ARABIA    I
.                        Schelombot        00-'                                                              o                          OMAN
>  i  CA '.- 1l C-13    SF I                                            5UDAN_                  _    
'i             REP OF YEMEN
LU                                                                                                                                           I       isol
t  L bo,    GoAo .;<                                                                                                                           OJILIOUTI-'
C3  \JajO R                                                                                                      O               E T H I O P I A        7.
Kolb.o    '                                                                                                                             ET IOPIA
IC10110               /       A- S                                                                                                                  (       0 <     "  _      _  A
UGtNDA                     I3
.    M   ,<                                                                                                     .  X          KENYA   I
\Bodode                                                                                                                                          1
. ,j                                  4t4'                                                               4.          TANZANIA 
MAY 1991



