Document of
The World Bank                         LE
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2950-SO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
February 3, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =    Somali Shilling (So.Sh.)
US$0.1589             =    So. Sh. 1.00
US$1.00               =    So. Sh. 6.295
US$1.00               =    SDR 0.783257
MEASURES
1 meter (m)      2     =   3.28 (ft.
1 square meter (m )   5   10.76 (ft )
ABBREVIATIONS
CDD   -    Curriculum Development Division of the MOE
CEC   -    Community Education Center
EEC   -    European Economic Community
FRG   -    Federal Republic of Germany
FYDP  -    Five Year Development Program.  (1974-78)
GOS   -    Government of Somalia
ICB   -    International Competitive Bidding
MCHE  -    Ministry of Culture and Higher Education
MOE   -    Ministry of Education
MPW   -    Ministry of Public Works
NAEC  -    National Adult Education Center
NTC   -    Nomadic Training Center
PIU   -    Project Implementation Unit
PTTRC -    Primary Teacher Training Resource Center
SIDAM -    Somali Institute of Development Administration and Management
SPA   -    State Printing Agency
TTEC  -    Technical Teacher Education College
TYDP  -    Three Year Development Plan. (1979-81)
UPE   -    Universal Primary Education
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



SOMALIA                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           Somali Democratic Republic
Beneficiary:        Ministry of Education
Amount:             SDR 8.0 million (US$10.2 million) equivalent
Terms:              Standard
Project Objectives  The Project objectives are to (a) improve the quality and
and Description:   efficiency of teaching in primary and secondary schools by
upgrading facilities for training of teachers; (b) provide
more equitable opportunities for secondary education in
rural areas; and (c) provide training facilities and
technical assistance for long-term planning of manpower
requirements and review of the civil service. To accomplish
these objectives, the Project includes the following
parts:
1. Improvements, extensions, equipping and furnishing
of: (i) five existing secondary schools for in-
service primary teacher training; (ii) one existing
Secondary Teacher Training College, the Lafole College
of Education; and (iii) ten existing general secondary
schools.
2. Construction, furnishing and equipping of four new
general secondary schools.
3. Equipping the Somali Institute of Development
Administration.
4. (a) Carrying out of a survey of the Lafole College of
Education on: (i) administration, (ii) organization
of maintenance; and (iii) catering services for
boarding students with the assistance of about two
man-years of specialist services; (b) Improvement
of teaching and administrative education in the Somali
Institute of Development Administration by the provi-
sion of experienced teachers and commercial administra-
tive educators equivalent to 20 man-years of services
by a commercial institute or college; and (c) Carrying
out of pre-investment and evaluation studies, and a
study for the review of the civil service with the
assistance of about 48 man-months of consultants
services.
Risks:              There is no major risk.  However, possibility of rising
educational costs may place the Government under such a
financial strain that it would be unable to maintain
quality education.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost                                        US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total  Z of Base Cost
1. Civil Works, Furniture,
Equipment and Vehicles
Primary Teacher Training
Resource Centers              0.3       1.3       1.6      17
Lafole College of Education   0.1         0.4      0.5        5
General Secondary Schools       1.1       2.0       3.1      34
Somali Institute of Devel-
opment Administration and
Management                     -        0.2      0.2        2
Project Unit's Warehouse         -        0.1      0.1        1
Sub-total                  1.5      4.0       5.5       59
2.  Technical Assistance            0.2       2.1       2.3       25
3.  In-Service Training (PTTRCs)  0.7         0.5       1.2       13
4.  Project Administration          0.2       0.1       0.3        3
Total Baseline Cost      2.6       6.7       9.3      100
5. Contingencies
Physical                        0.2       0.4      0.6
Price Increase                  1.0       2.1      3.1
Sub-total                  1.2      2.5       3.7
Total Project Costs
(including US$3.0 million
equivalent of taxes)            3.8       9.2     13.0
Financial Plan
IDA                                 1.0       9.2      10.2
Somali Government                   2.5        -        2.5
Total Project Costs,
net of taxes                    3.5       9.2     12.7
Estimated Disbursements: (US$ million)
IDA FY            1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Annual             -        0.6      1.5     4.6      2.3     1.0      0.2
Cumulative         -        0.6     2.1      6.7      9.0    10.0    10.2
Staff Appraisal Report No:  3059-SO, dated December 12, 1980.
Map:  IBRD  15068



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC FOR A
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Somali Democratic Republic for SDR 8.0 million (US$10.2 mil-
lion) equivalent on standard IDA terms to help finance a fourth education
project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 2244-SO) was distributed
to the Executive Directors in January 1979. Country data sheets are attached
as Annex I. The report of a mission which carried out an Agricultural Sector
Review was completed recently for discussions with the Government. In June
1980 there was an economic updating mission, whose report is under preparation.
Its findings are reflected below.
3.        The Somali Democratic Republic gained independence in 1960 and
the present Government came into power in 1969. Under a new Constitution
adopted in 1979, elections for a People's Assembly were held in December,
1979. The Assembly appointed General Siad Barre as President in January,
1980. The country is still affected by hostilities in the border areas in
the Ogaden, and the disruption caused by the phasing-out of Soviet aid and
technical assistance in 1977. During 1980, war activities in the Ogaden
intensified which caused a large influx of refugees estimated at over one
million, and led the Government to declare a state of emergency in November
1980.
4.        Somalia is a large country with a 3,000 kilometer coastline; its
land mass varies from a hot and arid coastal plain, to rugged mountains and
plateaus, and lowlands of varying fertility and rainfall. Only 13% of the
land is said to be arable, but with water the limiting constraint, only a
small fraction of this potentially arable land is, in fact, cultivated. Of
a total population of approximately 4.0 million, about 60% are nomads and
semi-nomads who depend on livestock for their livelihood, about 20% are
farmers cultivating land along the Juba and Shebelli rivers and in the
higher-rainfall Bay and North-west regions, while the rest are engaged
in non-agricultural occupations. The existence of several minerals has
been confirmed but exploration is still in its early stages, and commercial
viability remains to be proved. Short of other known resources, Somalia's
prospects depend upon agricultural and livestock development in which progress
will depend upon careful management of scarce land and water resources.



- 2 -
5.        Apart from the traditional export of livestock, commercial agricul-
ture is mainly centered on the production and export of bananas, in which
foreign concession holders are still important, and the production of sugar
for the domestic market. The expansion of manufacturing and service sectors
of the economy is limited by the small size of the domestic market, poor
infrastructure, and the shortage of capital and entrepreneurial experience.
Bank staff estimate that about 70% of the population live at subsistence
levels of about US$200-250 per family of five. Social services are still
very inadequate. Per capita income, which is tentatively estimated at US$185
in 1978, has most probably not increased in real terms over the past six
years.
Development Strategy
6.        Since the revolution in 1969, the Government has adhered to a
program of "scientific socialism", emphasizing egalitarianism and social
justice, development through the public sector, nationalization of certain
foreign enterprises, and the formation of cooperatives. While the Government
has always stated that there is room for private initiative in Somalia and
several privately financed projects have been implemented, the main emphasis
has been given to development of the public sector. Public ownership and
management have expanded through nationalization and creation of enterprises.
The parastatal sector now includes more than 50 autonomous agencies that have
eliminated private enterprises in wholesale trade and banking while taking a
major share in manufacturing. The Five-Year Development Plan (1974-78) and
the current Three-Year Plan (1979-81) are essentially public investment
programs that allowed for a few small private ventures. Although the plans
provided a needed impetus to investment in the economy, they do not seem to
play a major role in the allocative process. Despite the Government's initial
intentions, industry and mining, and infrastructure, have received more public
investment than agriculture. At the same time, enterprises have operated
without firm Government control, owing to a large extent to weak management
and the inadequacies of monitoring instruments.
7.        Somalia has made considerable progress in meeting some basic needs;
a program of literacy and primary education has had noticeable results, and
an effective system of food distribution has been established. In other areas
of the social sectors, however, the record is less impressive, particularly in
water supply, sanitation, and health where services frequently seem to have
been biased in favor of the urban population. On the other hand, economic
growth has been rather slow, making it difficult for Somalia to pursue its
basic needs policies vigorously.
8.        The major development goals of the Somali Government include self-
sufficiency in food grains, the partial substitution of other agricultural
imports (oils, sugar, cotton) and improvement of the lot of the traditional
nomadic herdsmen through settlement programs and improvements in livestock
production and marketing facilities. The current emphasis on irrigated
agriculture is meant to make the country less dependent on the erratic
pattern of rainfall, and assure more stable and predictable increases in



- 3 -
output. However, rainfed agriculture, which occupies the largest number of
farm families is also being assisted. Improvements in livestock production
and marketing are being promoted together with projects aiming at the rehabi-
litation of the rangelands. The Government's industrial development policy
focuses on the processing of domestic raw materials to substitute for imports.
Finally, the Government places emphasis on developing infrastructure, espe-
cially transportation and communications.
Economic Performance, Problems and Developments
9.        Available indicators on production suggest that between 1972 and
1978, gross domestic product in real terms increased by about 2.5% a year
which, given a similar population growth rate (2.3%) led to stagnation in per
capita income. In the productive sectors, the growth was only 1% a year on
the average, while in the services sectors it was 6.5%, reflecting to a large
extent the increase in government employment. In the productive sectors, the
annual growth was 2.5% in livestock, minus 5% in crop production, and minus
0.5% in industry. After 1978, output in agriculture and industry has most
likely continued to stagnate. The development of crop production is partic-
ularly disappointing. Thus, while food grain production stagnated, there was
a sharp decline in banana production and moderate decline in industrial
crops, particularly sugar. The causes of this are manifold: lack of effec-
tive production-oriented development program, uncertainty among private
banana growers, management and agronomic problems on government production
schemes. Above all, however, the lack of incentives was a major factor. For
the most important crops, producer prices have decreased in real terms; in
1980, they are estimated to be lower than 1974: by 43% for bananas, 31% for
maize and sorghum, and 48% for sesame seed and cotton. In the industrial
sector, where agro-industries predominate, growth has been hampered by the
generally declining trend in agricultural output as well as by the many
problems besetting public enterprises.
10.       The 1974-78 Five-Year Development Plan (FYDP) was revised several
times but remained overambitious with respect to both financial and implemen-
tation capacities. Total expenditures on projects during the FYDP amounted to
So.Sh. 4.3 billion as against the total planned investment of So. Sh. 7.0
billion. The Three-Year Development Plan (TYDP), covering 1979-81, calls
for total expenditures of So.Sh. 7.1 billion over the three-year period, of
which more than half represents outlays on projects carried over from the
1974-78 development program. Of the total anticipated expenditure, about 64%
is expected to be financed from foreign financing; the remainder is expected
from domestic savings and borrowing from domestic sources. It appears that
the TYDP is likely to face difficulties in implementation similar to FYDP
owing to low absorptive capacity and severe domestic resource constraints.
11.       More than 100,000 Somalis have migrated to work in the neighboring
oil-exporting States. Total earnings of the migrants equal about ten times the
total domestic value added in Somalia's modern sector. Labor migration has



- 4 -
been a phenomenon that the Government neither organizes nor controls, and its
magnitude is such that the drain of skills affects the smooth functioning of
a government-controlled economy. Migration is seriously depleting Somalia's
already low stock of qualified and skilled manpower, thereby weakening its
institutions and reducing the absorptive capacity of the country.
12.       Until 1977, budgetary policies remained generally conservative with
efforts made to mobilize resources through taxation. Although the drought and
the border problems adversely affected the Government's budget during this
period, inflows from sizeable external grants had considerably eased the
financial impact of the drought and the war. However, the border conflict of
1977/78 further accelerated the process of fiscal deterioration that was
already visible. In fact, the expansion of Government services nation-wide,
the rapidly rising defense expenditure and the recurrent cost implications of
recent public investment and policies, made it increasingly difficult to
generate savings. During 1978-80, the Government's financial situation
deteriorated rapidly, mainly because of a sizeable expansion in expenditure
resulting from several factors, including the border conflict, the cost of
maintaining large numbers of refugees and the wage bill associated with
Government policy of guaranteed employment for all school leavers. At the
same time, official foreign aid declined. As a result, the budgetary situation
worsened and the Government, which until 1978 had maintained a net creditor
position with the Central Bank, resorted to borrowing heavily from the banking
system, with deficit financing growing from So.Sh. 409 million in 1978 to
So.Sh. 920 million in 1979. This, in turn, led to a sharp increase of the
rate of inflation; 10% in 1978, 25% in 1979, and a further acceleration in
the first half of 1980 to about 50%.
13.       The existence side-by-side of an official foreign exchange market
and a free market, funded largely by migrant workers' earnings, has given rise
to large unrecorded trade and monetary flows. A serious analysis of balance
of payments developments on the basis of officially published figures is
therefore not possible. Data for external reserves suggest that Somalia had
a comfortable overall balance of payments position up to the beginning of
1979. Total reserves increased steadily from US$31 million in 1972 to US$158
million at the end of the first quarter of 1979, at which time they were
equivalent to 6 months of recorded imports of goods and services. Since then,
a sharp deterioration has set in. By July 1980, reserves had fallen to US$41
million (1.3 months of imports). From partially available data it must be
concluded that the seemingly favorable position up to the beginning of 1979
was largely the result of a sharp increase in official capital inflows.
Disbursements from foreign loans and grants rose from US$57 million in 1972 to
almost US$200 million in 1977. A substantial part of the inflow was related
to two events, the drought in 1974/75 and the war in 1977/78. Export perfor-
mance, however, has been disappointing. In real terms, exports of goods
declined by about 5 percent a year on the average between 1972 and 1979. When
after 1977 disbursements from loans and grants started declining (in 1979 the
figure was US$146 million), this underlying weakness of the balance of pay-
ments manifested itself in a sharp loss of reserves.



-5 -
14.       The sluggish exports and a low level of domestic savings, have
made external assistance most important in the financing of development.
After joining the Arab League in 1974, Somalia mounted a major effort to
attract funds from the Arab petroleum exporting countries. The large inflows
of external capital and transfers from 1975 onwards indicate that the effort
has been successful. After 1977, the source of foreign assistance changed
from the socialist countries (except for the People's Republic of China which
maintains a large program) towards Arab bilateral and multilateral institutions
and Western countries, several of which have had substantial assistance
programs for a number of years. The public external debt of Somalia outstand-
ing and disbursed as of December 1979 was US$546 million, or about 50% of GDP.
Although a large share of the external debt is on fairly soft terms, the debt
service ratio increased from about 5.5% in 1977 to about 8% in 1978 and 1979.
The debt service burden is expected to become much heavier in the near future
with its ratio to export earnings increasing to almost 30 percent by 1983.
15.       Government has recently shown some awareness that corrective poli-
cies are needed to face the economic and financial deterioration. In January
1980, the Government entered into its first Stabilization Program with the
IMF. The program aimed at restraining both public and private domestic demand,
raising domestic output of food crops and expanding exports through changes
in product and factor prices. However, the Fund program met with some diffi-
culties, because the Government has so far been unable to adhere to the agreed
credit ceilings. Moreover, in addition to the stabilization program, greater
emphasis should be given to economic growth; this would imply directing more
investment towards productive activities, particularly agriculture and
small-scale industry. The mobilization of resources to this end should be
sought through better management of public enterprises, and more dynamic
measures to encourage the migrants to return to Somalia and to attract the
financial resources of the migrants. In the interest of economic growth,
greater incentives ought to be created to stimulate production.
16.       At this stage, export prospects are not very promising because
of the concentration on two primary products -- livestock and bananas -- both
of which face problems in expanding production in the long run. Livestock
is subject to cyclical droughts which decrease export supplies. Banana
exports have fallen because of supply (drought, floods, poor agricul-
tural practices) and demand (increasing competition from multinationals in
both Italy and the Middle East) problems. Diversification efforts have been
attempted with hides, skins, and fisheries but so far not with much success.
In view of the country's poverty and uncertain export prospects, and because
of the fiscal constraints, occasional financing of local costs should be
provided.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
17.       Starting in 1965 IDA has made 21 credits totaling US$147 million,
of which about 35% have been made for transportation development, including



- 6 -
construction of three trunk roads and a new deepwater port and associated
extensions at Mogadishu. IDA credits were also made for livestock development
in FY74, for a development finance company project in FY77, and for education
in FY71, FY75 and FY78. Lending for crop agriculture commenced in FY76 with
two credits for a Drought Rehabilitation Project and a North-West Region
Agricultural Development Project. Additional Credits for Central Rangelands
and Agricultural Extension and Training and Bay Region Development projects
were approved in FY79 and FY80. Agricultural and livestock credits approved
for Somalia together represent 41% of total lending. A credit for development
of water supply in Mogadishu and a technical assistance Credit for project
preparation were approved in FY78. A Credit for promotion of petroleum
exploration was approved in FY80. IFC recently made its first loan to Somalia.
No Bank loan has been made to Somalia. Annex II contains a summary statement
of IDA credits as of November 30, 1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
18.       Performance on ongoing projects has been somewhat weak due mainly
to shortage of qualified personnel. As the pace of development continues
to rise, absorptive capacity constraints are becoming increasingly evident,
especially in the field of agriculture where projects are rather complex and
implementation experience is limited. Therefore, in preparing and appraising
new projects, particularly close attention is being paid to implementation
capacity and the adoption of measures to ease this constraint when necessary.
As one step to address this problem, the Government has established a Project
Implementation Unit in the Ministry of National Planning which has strengthened
the capacity for project implementation considerably by providing monitoring
and logistical support to the projects, including assistance in procurement
and recruitment of consultants.
19.       We plan to concentrate our future efforts on the country's directly
productive sectors, agriculture and livestock, and also on education and
transportation. While agriculture and livestock offer potential for develop-
ment, most rural development activities are only in the early stages. More-
over, agricultural development in Somalia is particularly difficult because
most of the people in rural areas are nomadic. To increase our knowledge of
agriculture in Somalia the Bank has recently made a comprehensive review of
the sector. In addition to these sectors, we plan to support the Government-s
industrial development efforts (and assist in the formulation of an industrial
development policy) through our country economic work and future industrial
development finance projects. We also plan to continue assistance to the
water supply and energy sectors.
20.       Somalia's statistical service lacks the capacity to fulfill the
data needs of development programs. The Bank's operations have experienced
difficulties in obtaining statistical data. We have therefore included funds
for strengthening the Central Statistical Department in the Ministry of
National Planning under the Agricultural Extension and Farm Management Training
Project.



- 7 -
21.       To facilitate the development and implementation of the Associa-
tion's growing operational program in Somalia, we established a one-man
resident mission in 1977. The mission represents the Bank Group in its
contacts with the Government, thus facilitating an efficient and smooth
day-to-day working relationship, and assists in coordination of cofinancing
efforts. The Bank's first Resident Representative completed his term in July
1980 and a new Resident Representative arrived in Somalia in October 1980. In
addition, two Bank staff members have been seconded to the Project Implementa-
tion Unit (para. 18).
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Objectives, Policy and Strategy
22.      Before the 1969 revolution, priority was accorded to secondary
education for a selected minority. Since that date the main emphasis has
been put on primary and adult education, to enable the maximum numbers of
people to profit from education and thereby participate more fully in social
and economic activities. In 1975, compulsory but free primary education was
introduced, with the objective of attaining universal primary education (UPE)
as quickly as possible. Enrollments increased rapidly, not only in primary
schools but also in secondary schools. To widen educational opportunities at
the primary level, with the available resources, the Government reduced the
length of the primary cycle from eight to six years and reduced the length
of the primary teacher training course from two years to one year. However,
the Government has realized that the quality of school leavers has deteriorated
over the last few years. Accordingly, beginning with the 1980-81 school year,
the primary cycle is again eight years long. The primary teacher training
course has already been increased to two years again. As for adult education,
a vigorous drive towards universal literacy began in 1974-1975, when all
schools were closed and all teachers, assisted by national service personnel,
were sent into the countryside to give literacy training to adults. Well over
a million adults were enrolled in literacy classes, many of them in facilities
built under a large, self-help construction program. Some 850 adult learning
centers are presently operational. Following the 1974-75 year of school
closure, the admission to grade 1 of primary education rapidly increased to
134,000 from the 1973-74 figure of 24,000. This figure represented 140% of
the estimated seven-year-olds in the population; obviously, most of the proper
age cohort as well as a large number of overage children began primary school
in 1974. In the three subsequent years, the initial enrollment was a similar
figure, representing only seven-year-olds, for the most part. At the beginning
of the 1980-81 school year, however, the figure is expected to jump again,
since the Government has recently decided to lower the age of entry from seven
to six years. In September 1980, therefore, most of the seven-year olds but
also about 65% of the six-year-olds entered school.
23.       The number of primary school leavers rose from 7,600 in 1977 to
an estimated 35,000 in 1980, causing heavy pressure on the Government to



- 8 -
expand secondary school places. The output of the primary school system in
1979 has already produced a sudden increase in enrollments in the first form
of general secondary schools (from 3,000 to 5,500) and it is estimated that a
further increase to 8,000 will take place in 1980 when the impact of the 1975
admissions to the first grade will be felt. Admissions in secondary level
education are then expected to fall somewhat until 1985-1987. The Government
has indicated that, in the future, 20% of the number of primary school leavers
will be terminated, and 80% will be enrolled in post primary education, as
follows:
-  in general secondary schools             24%
-  in technical secondary schools           14%
-  in vocational education                  42%
In 1978, of the 10,300 children completing primary school, 31% were terminated
with the balance enrolled as follows:
-  entering general secondary school        53%
-  entering technical secondary school    8%
-  entering vocational school                8%
From these figures it is evident that the Government will have considerable
difficulty in implementing its policy for post-primary enrollments. Signifi-
cantly, over twice as many students as intended proceeded to general secondary
education, and only about a quarter of the number intended proceeded to
technical and vocational education. Although the Government still publicly
adheres to its stated policy, there seems to be a tacit understanding within
the Government that general secondary school enrollments will be expanded as
quickly as resources permit and that the targets of 14% and 42%, respectively
for technical education and vocational training, are quite unrealistic targets
in view of the high capital costs involved and the shortage of qualified and
well trained technical and vocational teachers. Consequently, an uncontrolled
expansion of general secondary school enrollments can be anticipated, absorb-
ing resources which might be better applied to industrial education.
24.       Substantial conceptual uncertainty remains with regard to producing
an appropriate balance between general and specialized education; and the
ideal speed by which educational institutions ought to expand. However,
results from the manpower survey of private and public employers would suggest
that identified shortages of craftsmen and technicians were currently unmet.
Because the Government-s de facto policy on post-primary education appears to
be at variance with its stated intentions, future expansion within post-primary
subsectors should receive closer attention than it has in the past. The
Government, moreover, should be encouraged in the short term to proceed with
the expansion of general secondary education in accordance with its ability
to finance such expansion and should expand only based on identified manpower
needs (see para. 62).



- 9 -
The Organization and Administration of the Education System
25.       The MOE and the Ministry of Culture and Higher Education (MCHE)
share responsibility for the formal education system and also for most non-
formal education. The MOE is responsible for primary, secondary, technical
and adult education as well as for primary teacher training, and to a certain
extent, vocational training. Education planning is centralized, but the
Government is in the process of delegating greater responsibility to the
sixteen regional authorities. The MCHE is responsible for university level
education, secondary teacher training, libraries, museums and other cultural
institutions. In addition to these two ministries, several other ministries
conduct limited training in specialized areas.
The Formal Education System
26.       Primary education has been increased to eight years in 1980-1981.
The medium of instruction is Somali. In 1978/79 there were nearly 264,000
students and about 8,100 teachers giving a student-teacher ratio of 32:1 which
numerically is fairly generous, but in view of the relatively young, inexperi-
enced and marginally trained teaching force, is acceptable until the teachers
become more mature and experienced.
27.       Primary school enrollments represented only 13% of the age group
in 1973-1974 but increased to about 44% in 1978-1979. Progression rates are
about 75%, which is average for a developing country. The projected number
of children enrolled in primary education at the end of the next decade
represents only about 65% of the estimated age group at that time. This is
a reasonable goal, since it would be unfeasible to attempt to enroll a higher
proportion, given Somalia-s present situation with respect to the nomadic
population. Participation rates reflect a range from almost 100% around
Mogadishu to 11% in remote inland areas.
28.       The Government provides pupils with textbooks printed by the State
Printing Agency (SPA). Pupils buy their own exercise books, pens, pencils,
and other equipment. No provision is made for teacher aids other than chalk.
Most rooms have a chalkboard, and teaching is confined to using the chalkboard
and giving information orally, to supplement that in the textbooks. The lack
of appropriate teaching aids is a serious handicap to effective teaching.
Primary school facilities vary from the large, well-constructed multishift
town schools to the small mud and wattle buildings in rural areas. Many of
the smaller schools lack facilities for the full cycle of primary education.
Responsibility for providing physical facilities is shared between the Govern-
ment and local communities (who provide self-help).
29.       Secondary Education.  In 1978/79 there were 36 general secondary
schools in Somalia enrolling 11,000 students with 700 teachers. The student/
teacher ratio of 16:1 was too low and uneconomic. However, the Government has
informed us that the student/teacher ratio has increased to about 24:1 and has
assured us that the level will be maintained at 24:1 at least (see para. 60).
Girls represent 24% of the enrollment. The total enrollment of 11,000 students



- 10 -
represents 3% of the relevant age group. The rate of promotion from primary
to secondary education has increased rapidly in recent years, with 53% of
primary school leavers being promoted to secondary education in 1978-1979.
The Government hopes to reduce this promotion rate to 40% by 1980 and to 24%
in subsequent years. On the basis of this projection, there would be a
trebling of enrollments from 1978-1979 to 1989-1990, from 11,000 to 33,000.
Surplus of secondary school graduates is likely to occur during the early
1980s and measures should be taken to relate enrollments to manpower require-
ments and financial ability (see para. 62).
30.       Quantitative efficiency at the secondary level is fairly high.
Completion rates are close to 70%, and the general secondary examination pass
rate in 1977 was 85% for boys and 80% for girls. The distribution of secondary
level students between general and technical courses indicates the strong
preference for general secondary schools in spite of the Government's stated
policy to orient over twice as many students toward technical and vocational
education than to general education. General secondary schools only offer
arts and sciences courses. Because of poorly trained science teachers,
science teaching is largely ineffective. Community self-help and Government-
built schools make no provision for practical courses in wood and metal work,
home economics or arts and crafts, and it is not now Government policy to do
so, though such facilities were provided in the 21 secondary schools built
under the IDA assisted First and Second Education Projects. The desired
development of technical and vocational training will be impossible without an
extensive increase in the number of teachers and facilities. The increased
numbers of pupils leaving primary school will inevitably result in more
pressure for more places in secondary schools. The Government's inability to
provide more places in technical secondary and vocational education is already
resulting in an over-high proportion entering general secondary schools.
31.       The Government is endeavoring to implement a policy of mass educa-
tion, with 80% of children continuing some form of education or training
after primary level. Such a policy has considerable financial implications
which appears not to have been assessed by the Government's planners, but it
is becoming clearer to them that to maintain a high quality of post-primary
education/training is beyond Government's present resources. Consequently,
the more expensive types of education and training such as science, commerce,
and industrial arts teaching, are receiving only marginal attention relative
to academic subjects. As evidenced by examination results, the teaching of
academic subjects is of a satisfactory standard, but teaching in other areas
is of only marginal value.
32.       Teacher education.  The Halane Primary Teachers' College in
Mogadishu, was opened in 1976 and is the country's only primary teacher
training college. Enrollment in 1978-79 was 2,856 students in two-year
courses after primary level. To meet the urgent need for primary teachers,
Halane operated two one-year accelerated courses in 1976-77 and 1977-78 and
graduated about 4,000 students, and in addition, one-year courses in temporary
accommodations were held in 1972 and 1975 which together graduated a total of
2,200 students. These 6,200 teachers form the backbone of the 8,100 primary



- 11 -
teacher training force. The balance is made up mostly of untrained primary
and secondary school leavers. Halane's present capacity is sufficient to meet
projected needs for primary school teachers. To improve the quality of
primary teachers, the MOE has programmed a substantial number of upgrading
courses, assistance for which is included in the proposed project.
33.       Secondary school teachers are trained at the Lafole College of
Education. The College is part of the university and is under the control
of the MCHE. Originally operating a four-year course, of which one year
was spent in teaching practice, it now gives only a two-year course with
no teaching practice. Total enrollment is about 1,000, with an effective
annual output of around 450 teachers a year. However, more recently output
has dropped to about 275 teachers a year. Students are recruited from
secondary school graduates who have completed national service and also from
among employed primary school teachers. The experience of the latter group
compensates to some extent for the lack of teaching practice.
34.       Science subjects account for one quarter of the secondary school
curriculum; yet half of Lafole's six laboratories are out of use due to
lack of supplies and the other three are far from satisfactory because of
damaged equipment. Consumable materials for the chemistry laboratory are
lacking and science is apparently taught in classrooms most of the time.
The quality of teachers has also deteriorated. Thus, there is an urgent need
to improve the quality of teaching and in addition to develop the college on
better administrative and organizational foundations, assistance for which is
included in the proposed project.
35.       Vocational, technical and commercial education.  Industrial training
is taught in four three-year and six four-year technical schools, together
enrolling about 3000 students. Additionally, there are six vocational train-
ing institutions together enrolling 1,500 students, administered by various
Government departments. Apart from a new vocational training center in
Mogadishu, to be financed by the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG), there are
no clear plans for the development of industrial training at the craftsman-
technician levels. Due to a combination of poorly equipped workshops and a
shortage of good technical teachers, the quality of training is generally
below a desirable level. An exception to this generalization is the vocational
training institute at Burao, developed with assistance from the FRG, where
technical assistance in the form of a well qualified team from Germany has
developed an institute which sets a standard for the rest of Somalia.
36.       Despite the establishment of a National Commission for Technical
and Vocational Training, there is a lack of overall coordination of the
various technical and vocational institutes operated by several different
ministries. This lack of coordination contributes to the unplanned expansion
of vocational training, a position which is in urgent need of rectification
through the preparation of a well-coordinated plan for technical and voca-
tional training. Technical assistance for this purpose is provided under
the project.



- 12 -
37.       Technical teacher training takes place at the Technical Teacher
Education College (TTEC) in Mogadishu, which is receiving assistance from
UNESCO and ILO. The college requires new premises, substantial re-equipment,
and improved management. The two-year courses, because of the sub-standard
condition of the workshops, are largely of a theoretical nature and do not
give the students the essential manual skill training required for teachers
of industrial subjects. The trainees receive no teaching practice during
the course. Technical teacher training at TTEC started in 1978, and the
first class of 180 students graduated in 1980. In view of the Government's
slow development of technical and vocational education, the graduate output is
numerically adequate for the foreseeable future.
38.       Commercial and Business education and training are carried out
largely at the Somali Institute of Development Administration and Management
(SIDAM). Founded in 1965, it is under the control of the Ministry of Labor
and Social Affairs and provides in-service training mainly to civil servants.
The SIDAM's major problem in maintaining existing courses and planning needed
new courses is to obtain and retain qualified teaching staff. The present
full-time establishment is seriously understrength, and SIDAM must therefore
rely heavily on part-time teachers. This is an undesirable situation which is
likely to continue in view of the attractive employment opportunities avail-
able in the oil producing neighboring countries. In view of the demand for
commercially trained personnel and their important role in Somalia's develop-
ment, a comprehensive plan for the orderly development of this educational
sub-sector is urgently needed.
39.       Higher education.  The National University established in 1956 as
an institution of higher education in economics and law, became in 1963 a
University Institute, providing the full range of requirements for the first
two years of study towards degrees in law, economics and political science.
The degrees were granted after two additional years of studies mostly in
Padua, Italy. In 1970, the National University was granted legal authority
to confer degrees. There are twelve faculties at present: Geology, Engineer-
ing, Medicine, Veterinary, Law, Economics, Commerce, Chemistry, Agriculture,
Journalism, Languages, and Education. Entrance is by competitive examination.
The medium of instruction is Italian and/or English, depending largely on the
staff. The 1979 enrollment was about 3,000 students.
The Nonformal Education System
40.       The MOE's Department of Nonformal Education is responsible for
nonformal programs which include adult education and women's and community
training. In 1974-75 the Department conducted a mass literacy campaign,
which according to government figures, increased the literacy rate among
adults from 5% to over 50%.
41.       Adult education.  Some 850 centers provide adult nonformal education
to about 27,000 students. The basic three-year program is designed to be
functionally equivalent to full-time primary education. The IDA assisted
Third Education Project included the provision of seven regional centers as
resource centers to provide organization, supervision and materials distribu-
tion for the above adult learning groups.



- 13 -
42.       A Government agency reporting directly to the Presidency operates
crash agricultural training programs on seven large scale farms with a total
cultivated area of about 20,000 hectares. The objective is to retrain un-
employed youth from urban and nomadic areas as farmers. The farms pre-
sently have about 7,000 trainees including about 2,000 women with a training
program that normally lasts one year. The IDA assisted Second Education
Project included provision for Nomadic Training Centers (NTCs) and Community
Education Centers (CECs) to help serve the needs of nomads and relocated
nomadic populations in agricultural areas. These centers are expected to
be completed shortly.
43.       The MOE, with financial assistance from local authorities and the
Ministry of the Interior, operates 51 centers for women's education, with
some 3,700 attending. The National Women-s Center in Mogadiscio provides a
six-month course to train staff for these centers in crafts, home economics,
nutrition and child-care. The Center also trains home economics teachers
for primary schools. No assistance is provided in this proposed project
since it is being supported by other bilateral assistance.
Financing Education Development
44.       Recurrent Expenditure.  The MOE is responsible for financing the
major part of education and training. Funds for university education and
some specialized training are channelled through the MCHE and certain other
ministries. Education in Somalia is generally provided free at all levels
and some training institutions provide a monthly allowance to students. The
major form of direct financial contribution to education is through self-help
construction of primary school classrooms by local communities.
45.       Between 1969 and 1974, the recurrent expenditures of the MOE and
the MCHE together were about 7% of the Central Government's total recurrent
expenditure in that period. As a result of the increased emphasis given to
the sector and the rapid total growth in enrollments since 1974, the percent-
age has been increasing rapidly, e.g., in 1977, education expenditures reached
15.6% of the Government's recurrent expenses as compared to only 7.5% in 1973.
Between 1975 and 1978, recurrent expenditures in nominal terms of the MOE
and the MCHE have more than doubled. The share of these two Ministries
in the total Government ordinary expenditures (11.0% in 1978) is still sub-
stantially lower than in most other East African countries where recurrent
expenditures on education absorb more than 20% of the budget. Based on MOE
staff projections of school enrollment to 1986, the MOE's recurrent expendi-
ture is estimated to grow at an average of 8% p.a. in real terms while that
of the MCHE is expected to increase at an average rate of 10% p.a.
46.       Capital Expenditures.  According to recent estimates, capital
expenditures under the FYDP amounted to So.Sh. 4.3 billion with So.Sh. 310
million allocated to the MCHE. Over the last four years, the MOE spent an
average of So.Sh. 29 million (US$4.5 million equivalent) in investment proj-
ects in primary, secondary and technical/vocational education. The IDA
assisted Second and Third Education Projects were the principal externally



- 14 -
assisted projects. Total Government domestic development expenditures in
education (MOE and MCHE) fluctuated between 8.5% and 13.5% of total domestic
development expenditures. In addition, contributions to capital formation
as noted previously are made by the population through self-help schemes.
47.       Future Perspectives.  The current Government policy in Somalia
continues to give education high priority and it is likely that the share of
education in Central Government expenditures may regain the levels of 1976.
Recurrent expenditures are expected to grow steadily in future years because
of increased enrollments partially attributable to the facilities provided.
However, the level of future development expenditure will depend basically
on the availability of external assistance which is usually linked to new
development projects. Assuming that total Government expenditures grow at
about 5% p.a. in real terms and that the share of education expenditures
remains at about 12% of the total, then total education expenditures should
amount to about So.Sh. 275 million in 1986. This amount would permit the
expansion of the education system at the projected rates which would fall
within the Government's financing capacity.
Role of the Bank in Somali Education
48.       Past experience.  IDA assistance has been provided to three educa-
tion projects for Somalia. The first project (Credit 247-SO, signed June 3,
1971 for an amount of US$3.3 million and successfully completed September 30,
1976) was designed mainly to (a) improve the quality of technical education;
(b) diversify the curricula in general secondary schools; (c) increase the
enrollment capacities of secondary schools, two technical institutes and the
primary teacher training section of the Lafole College of Education (which now
has been moved to Halane Primary Teachers Training School); and (d) develop a
local capacity for design and implementation of school facilities.
49.       The second project (Credit 511-SO, signed September 19, 1974, for
an amount of US$8.0 million) assisted by (a) supporting the Government s
policy to promote basic education and reduce illiteracy by establishing an
additional primary teacher training college and an Academy of Somali Studies;
(b) enabling additional secondary schools to offer the diversified curricula
introduced in the first project; and (c) introducing Nomadic Training
Centers. Implementation progress is now basically satisfactory; however,
delays have occurred due to, inter alia, the recent war and the project is
now expected to be completed and fully disbursed by March 31, 1981, nine
months beyond the original June 30, 1980 Closing Date.
50.       The third project (Credit 738-SO, signed September 30, 1977 for
an amount of US$8.0 million) gave major support to the first and second
education projects by expanding the State Printing Agency to ensure the
timely printing of an adequate supply of school textbooks and by reinforcing
the MOE's Curriculum Development Center. The project also includes (a) a new
Livestock and Forestry School; (b) a new Health Personnel Training Institute;
(c) a new School of Nursing and renovation to, and provision for equipment
and technical assistance for, the National Trade Testing and Training Center.



- 15 -
Finally, to provide a base for future planning, the project included provision
for technical assistance for a manpower survey. Implementation progress
although slightly delayed, is basically satisfactory.
51.       Lessons Learned.  A completion report was prepared in October 1976
to evaluate the First Education Project. It concluded that overall, the
project had been successful, especially with regard to the establishment
of new Project Implementation and School Design Units which were progressively
staffed with qualified Somalis as expatriate advisors were phased out. The
report's main reservation was whether the diversified curriculum introduced
into several secondary schools by the project was really an important educa-
tional objective. The introduction of industrial arts subjects into the
schools had been less than successful because of a lack of craft subject
teachers and also because of student resistance to such subjects at the
expense of academic subjects, success in which is apparently the key to
advancing up the educational ladder. This problem has continued in the
general secondary schools being assisted in the second education project to
such an extent that the Government has abandoned, at least temporarily, the
teaching of industrial subjects. Therefore, based on previous experience, the
diversified curriculum is not included in the new general secondary schools
provided in the proposed project. However, the project provides design of a
coordinated Program for vocational training as the basis for future investment.
52.       Future strategy.  The Government's strategy for primary education
is to attain UPE as quickly as resources will allow. In 1978-79, about 44%
of the estimated age group attended primary school; in view of the nomadic
nature of the population it is unlikely that even though attendance at primary
schools is compulsory, the Government will be able to enroll much more than
60% of the total age group at any one time. Consequently, for practical
purposes, about 75% of the realistic target had been attained in 1978-79.
53.       Rapidly increasing enrollments have occurred in general secondary
schools and the university, with the inevitable lowering of standards. The
Bank Group assistance to the education and training sector has an important
role to play in helping to improve the quality of education, particularly by
encouraging improved teacher training and in directing investment in education
and training into those areas where skilled manpower shortages are now evident
at present, in the industrial and commercial sectors. The Bank Group should
continue to use its influence to convince the Government to develop appropriate
education and training facilities as part of comprehensive and well executed
plans. For this reason, the proposed project includes a pre-investment study
which would provide technical assistance to help in preparing a vocational
technical plan.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
54.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Fourth Education Project"
(No. 3059-SO) dated December 12, 1980 is being distributed separately. A



- 16 -
Credit and Project Summary appears at the beginning of this report and a
Supplementary Project Data Sheet is given in Annex III. The Project was
prepared by the Government with the assistance of UNESCO and appraised by
an IDA mission in February 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C.
from December 1 to December 5, 1980. The Somali delegation was headed by
Mr. Mohamed Burale Ismail, the Minister of Labor and Social Affairs.
Project Objectives
55.       The proposed Project covers a five-year program (1981 to 1986).  It
is designed to improve the quality and efficiency of teaching in primary and
secondary schools by upgrading facilities for the pre-service and in-service
training of teachers and to provide more equitable opportunities for secondary
education to those rural areas devoid of secondary schools. Because of
Somalia's acute shortage of managers, accountants, office workers and related
skilled personnel, the project aims to alleviate this shortage by helping to
provide training facilities and technical assistance for appropriate long-term
planning of these manpower requirements. The Project also aims to assist the
Government to develop a plan for a more efficient civil service system.
Project Components
56.       Primary Teacher Training Resource Centers (PTTRC's).  The component
would improve the quality of primary teachers through in-service training
opportunities at five proposed resource centers to be established at existing
general secondary schools at Baidoa, Burao, Qoryolei, Dusa Mareb, and Kismayo.
These centers would cover fourteen of the sixteen regions in the country and
would be supervised and controlled by inspectors of the Regional Education
Offices. The remaining two regions are covered by existing Government arrange-
ments. The proposed project component will include additional facilities
such as a teaching materials production unit and storage, furniture and
equipment to the existing schools. Incremental operating costs for the
in-service training for teacher upgrading are also included in the proposed
project and would cover, for a period of five years: (a) payments to secondary
school teachers and supporting staff to compensate for additional duties in
operating courses during normal vacation periods; (b) a per diem for each
course participant to cover transport and subsistence; and (c) consumable
materials for use in the courses.
57.       Lafole College of Education.  It is Somalia's only secondary teacher
training college. Incorporated in the college is a textbook production center
which is the only source of Somali language textbooks for college students.
The college needs science and visual aids equipment as well as some refur-
bishing and reequipping of laboratories and classrooms, all of which is
included in the proposed project. The project would also assist the textbook
production center in acquiring printing machinery and paper.
58.       Technical assistance specialists are needed to assist and advise
the Dean in the operation of the various sections of the college. Consequently,
provision for two man-years of specialists services has been included in the



- 17 -
project so that four persons each for six months could be appointed to advise
the Dean on: (a) administration, general management, and associated academic
matters; and (b) organization of maintenance for the college; and (c) cater-
ing arrangements for boarding students.
59.       Due to the rapid increase in enrollments in general secondary
schools (from 4,900 to 11,000 in the seven year period 1972-1978), the
training of teachers was cut from four to two years, and enrollments at
Lafole increased correspondingly. Present enrollments are about 1,000
with an output of about 450 p.a., which is unnecessarily large given feasible
and projected enrollments in general secondary schools. An annual output of
150 graduates would probably be ample to meet the needs. Therefore, assurance
has been sought that the intake will be gradually reduced in order to stabilize
output at about 150 p.a. (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.07(c).
60.       Quality improvement is necessary.  The present two-year intensive
course is particularly deficient in two respects, i.e., science teaching
and student teaching practice. Accordingly, assurances have been obtained that
the course will be increased to three years for the academic year starting in
1983/84, more science and practice teaching will be included in the curriculum,
and intake will be reduced to prevent an oversupply of secondary teachers
and thus permit the student teacher ratio to be maintained at the current level
of about 24:1 (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.07(a) and (b)).
61.       General Secondary Schools.  The proposed project includes provisions
for the construction of four new and additions to ten existing general secon-
dary schools. These additions would provide more equitable opportunities for
secondary education in remote rural areas. Two of the four new schools would
be two-stream, each with an enrollment of 288 students and two would have
one-stream enrolling 144 students. They would be sited at settlements which
have been developed following the 1975 drought and in areas where no secondary
schools exist.
62.       The ten existing general secondary schools have been built during
the last four years by community effort with Government aid and supervision.
The general quality of construction and furniture is good, but equipment
and library books are almost non-existent and some schools need additional
science laboratories and furniture which is included in the proposed project.
The enrollment capacity of these ten schools is 3,300 students. Since a major
expansion of the general secondary system ought to proceed with caution, the
Government will relate growth in the general secondary school system to
its ability to finance such expansion and expand only on the basis of identi-
fied manpower needs (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.06). The
compliance will be closely monitored during supervision.
63.       The Somali Institute of Development Administration and Management
(SIDAM) provides training in clerical and secretarial skills, accounting,
management and administration mainly for public sector employees. 20 man-years
of technical assistance have been included in the proposed project in order
to provide the core of experienced teachers and commercial administrative



- 18 -
educators necessary to optimize the Institute's efficiency. The organization
selected for this task would initially carry out a survey at SIDAM to determine
the most appropriate type of expertise required to provide maximum assistance
and to prepare a time schedule of their operations in Somalia. The survey to
be carried out would include recommendation for further technical assistance
for possible inclusion in future projects for SIDAM. The contract for tech-
nical assistance would be made with an appropriately experienced institute
or college acceptable to the Association by not later than March 31, 1982 to
supply on a team basis the technical assistance included in the Project. The
selection including terms and conditions would be subject to agreement by the
Association (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.08).
64.       Pre-Investment, Evaluation and Civil Service Employment Studies.
Technical and vocational as well as management and commercial education all
need developing to meet the country's need for skilled manpower. The proposed
project includes provision for technical assistance to help in preparing the
necessary plans. A two-man team would be required for six months to prepare
a technical/vocational plan and another two-man team for three months for the
management/commercial plan. Each team would review and evaluate relevant
training already being offered in Somalia, and in the light of projected
skilled manpower needs specified in manpower study carried out under the
Third Education Project and updated from time to time by Somali Government,
would prepare a development plan with related overall capital and recurrent
costs.
65.       There is an urgent need for a thorough overhaul of public employment
and personnel policies in Somalia. To assist the Government to design an
efficient system, the proposed project includes a study for the development
of a program for public employment. The study would review the present system,
investigate its shortcomings, and make recommendations for improvements in
organizational structure and in recruitment, deployment, promotion and remu-
neration of the public servants. One or more international experts would be
recruited to assist in preparation of the study which will be completed not
later than December 31, 1982. The study would be carried out on terms of
reference acceptable to the Association and the Government would consult the
Association on the findings and recommendations of the study with a view to
implementing a mutually agreed program to improve public employment (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.09).
Project Cost Estimate
66.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$13.0 million
equivalent, including duties and taxes (about US$0.3 million equivalent).
The cost of foreign exchange components is estimated at US$9.2 million or 72%
of the net project cost. The high foreign cost reflects the need for import-
ing most building materials, furniture and equipment, and the large technical
assistance component. Costs for civil works, furniture and equipment and
vehicles are based on results of recent competitive bidding and contract
awards in the IDA assisted Second and Third Education Projects and other
similar Government projects. Average building cost per square meter for



- 19 -
general secondary schools (October 1980) is about US$225 equivalent in the
proximity of Mogadishu and about US$275 in remote areas. This is reasonable
in comparison with similar institutions in other Eastern African countries.
Technical assistance is estimated on an average, at US$77,000 equivalent per
man-year.
67.       All items specifically imported for the proposed project would be
exempt from duties and taxes. However, taxes may be paid on items purchased
through the National Agency for Building Materials. For physical contingencies,
10% has been added to the base cost of civil works and 5% to the base costs of
all other project components. Price increase from the base cost (October
1980) have been applied in accordance with the implementation schedule at an
average of about 8% a year for foreign items and 20% for local items.
Financing Plan
68.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 8.0 million (US$10.2 million) equiva-
lent will finance 78% of the total Project cost or about 80% of the net
Project cost. This includes US$1 million local cost financing (about 8% of
Project cost) which is justified in view of the country's poverty (see para
16). The Government will cover the remaining 22% of total Project cost. The
financing plan is outlined below:
Source                                     US$ Million
Foreign     Local      Total      % of Total
IDA                                     9.2          1.0       10.2        78
Government                               -           2.8        2.8        22
Total                                   9.2          3.8       13.0       100
Of which taxes                                                  0.3
Total (net of taxes)                                           12.7
69.       The Government's total contribution of So.Sh. 17.6 million is spread
over a period of six years with a maximum contribution of So.Sh. 3.5 million
(including So.Sh. 0.3 million of local taxes), which is within its financial
capacity. Recurrent costs generated by the proposed project are estimated at
about US$1.0 million equivalent p.a., in 1980 prices, or about 3% of the
estimated total recurrent cost of education in 1986.
Implementation
70.       The proposed project would be implemented in about six years,
including six months for finalization of accounts and withdrawals. Project
completion is expected by September 30, 1986 with a Closing Date of March 31,
1987. The implementation schedule is based upon experience derived from the
previous three IDA-assisted education projects. The Project and School
Design Units established for the implementation of the First, Second and Third
IDA assisted Education Projects would be responsible for the implementation
and the financial and administrative control of the proposed project.
Any appointments to the position of project director and architect would be
on terms and conditions including qualifications and experience satisfactory
to Association (draft Development Credit, Section 3.02(b)).



- 20 -
71.       The Project and School Design Units would be responsible for the
design and supervision of construction of all project institutions. Standard
plans and construction documents developed for the First, Second and Third
Education Projects would be utilized to the maximum extent possible. The
strength of the Units professional staff, which is being increased with four
additional site supervisors, is adequate to implement the proposed project.
The construction industry consists of about 50 private construction firms
which have been approved to compete for Government contracts. Some 40 of them
are located in Mogadishu. Government buildings are sometimes built by the
MPWs departmental forces and each region has such departmental forces which
assist local self-help schemes. There are no foreign contracting firms in
Somalia and from past experience it is unlikely that foreign firms would bid
for the construction work in the proposed project.
Procurement
72.       Contracts for civil works, construction materials, furniture,
equipment and vehicles totalling about US$8.0 million equivalent including
contingencies would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines for procurement,
except as follows: (a) civil works contracts estimated to cost less than
US$250,000 equivalent each; (b) furniture, equipment, vehicles and construc-
tion material contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; and
(c) local transportation services for furniture and equipment. These (a,
b, and c) would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with local procedures acceptable to the Association.
The aggregate value of these contracts is estimated at about US$1.2 million
equivalent, including contingencies. Sketch designs, draft tender documents,
and master lists of imported building materials, furniture, equipment and
vehicles indicating proposed grouping and cost estimates, would be reviewed
by the Association. Items would be grouped to the extent practicable to
encourage competitive bidding and to permit bulk procurement. Review of
tender evaluation documents prior to award would be required only for con-
tracts above US$250,000 equivalent each for civil works and US$50,000
equivalent each for imported building materials, furniture, equipment,
vehicles and transportation.
Disbursements
73.       Disbursements would be on the basis of:  (a) 60% of civil works;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures or 60% of local expenditures for building
materials; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures or 80% of local expenditures for
furniture, equipment, vehicles and local transport services; (d) 100% of
foreign and80% of local expenditures for technical assistance; and (e) 50% of
the total cost of in-service training and project administration.
74.       All disbursements would be fully documented except for local ex-
penditures for: (a) civil works by force account; (b) project administration;
(c) in-service training; and (d) local transportation of furniture and equip-
ment to school sites. Disbursements for these items would be made against
statements of expenditure documentation for which would not be submitted for
review, but would be retained by the Borrower and available for inspection by



- 21 -
the Association during project supervision. The Government would provide,
before the beginning of each Somali fiscal year, a work program and budget,
satisfactory to the Association for work to be carried out by force account
methods, project administration, the in-service primary teacher training
program and for local transportation for furniture and equipment. Based upon
experience in previous education projects, the Unit has satisfactory institu-
tional capacity to use the statement-of-expenditure procedure.
75.       Auditing would be required on an annual basis for all expenditures
financed under this project and, in particular, for work carried out by
departmental forces (force account), operational expenses for project admin-
istration and in-service training, and local transportation of furniture
and equipment to school sites. Auditing would be performed by auditors
acceptable to the Association, applying satisfactory auditing procedures
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.01(b)).
Benefits
76.       The principal benefit of the proposed project is expected to be an
improvement in the quality of training of primary and secondary teachers. The
five resource centers included in the project would substantially improve the
teaching ability of previously undertrained teachers in elementary science
and in the use of teaching aids. Furthermore, the devolution of in-service
training to regional centers (a part of the gradual process of decentralizing
control of the educational system) would make education more responsive to
local needs and should improve its relevance. The equipment and furniture
to be provided under the proposed project to the Lafole College would support
a much improved standard of secondary teacher training.
77.       The proposed project's assistance to ten existing general secondary
schools would enable these schools to teach the basics of biological and
physical sciences, thus preparing students for continued education in fields
where there is an identified shortage of skilled manpower. The four new
general secondary schools, each to be in a settlement where such schools do
not now exist, would help alleviate inequality in educational opportunities
in the rural areas and help school leavers find employment.
78.       The proposed assistance to the Somali Institute of Development
Administration and Management would enable the Institute's courses to be
operated with greatly improved efficiency and should result in an output of
well-trained personnel in the areas of management administration and general
office skills, areas in which Somalia is currently experiencing a critical
shortage.
Risks
79.       There is no major risk.  However, the possibility of rising educa-
tional recurrent costs, caused by rapidly increasing primary and secondary
school enrollments, may place the Government under such a financial strain
that it will be unable to maintain quality standards which is an important
objective of the Project. The Government has confirmed that it would maintain



- 22 -
growth in the general secondary school system to estimated manpower needs
and its ability to finance such expansion, and to maintain the current student
teacher ratio of about 24:1 (draft Development Credit Agreement, Sections 3.06
and 3.07). As regards recurrent costs, the Project is designed to keep
recurrent expenditures resulting from the Project to a minimum.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
80.       The draft Credit Agreement between the Somali Democratic Republic
and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions
of the project are listed in Section 3 of Annex III to this report.
81.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
82.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
February 3, 1981



- 23 -                                              Annex 1
Page 1 of 4
Pagte I
TABLE 3A
SOMALIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SOKALIA                       REFERENCE QROUPS (WEIGHTED AVFi/ACES
LAtlD AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                     - MtST RECENT ESTIATE)
TOTAL            637.7
AGRICULTURAL     299. 2                               MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  h     1970 tb ESTIMATE lb  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAPARA  AFRICA SOTH OF SAPARA
GNIP PER CAPITA (US$)                 70.0        90-.   185 .  e               260.0                   868.0
ENERCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      17.0        35.0      55.0                 80.0                  699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                  e/
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      2.5         3.1      4.                      .
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.3        23.1      28.7                 17.3                   28.9
POPLLATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION iN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       6.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        17.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2170
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. RK.                        3.0         4.0       5.0                 27.4                   61.7
PER Sq. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      7.0         9.0      11.0                 92.6                  126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCEbT)
0-14 TRS.                         43. 8       46.5      44.4                 44.9                   45.5
15-64 YRS.                        53.5        51.6       53.6                 52.2                   51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.7         1.9       2.0                  2.8                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2. 0        2.4       7. ?                 2.7                    2. 7
URBAN                              5.2         5.3       5.1                  6.8                    4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOIUSAND)    57.0        47.0      48.0                 47.4                   46.8
CRUDE DFATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    29.0         23.0      20.0                 19.6                   16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..          3.0       3.0                  3.2                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..     -   ..
USEIS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD FRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         97.0        100.0      88.0                 91.8                   94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRElENTS)                  85.0         85.0      88.0                 90.2                   92. 7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          73.0        72.0      70.0                 53.0                   53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       45.0        45.0      41.0                 18.4                   15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     43.0        36.0      31.0                 27.7                   21.3
YEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TEARS)   36.0         40.0      43.0                 45.3                   50.1
INFANT MORTALITY aATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..         ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         15.0      33i0   *             23.2                   31.0
URIAN ".                                      17.0      58.0                 58.0                   66.8
lAL                                 ..        14.0      20.0                 16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..       47.0                 28.9
QtAH                                ..         ..       77.0           -    67.0
RULAL                              ..          ..       35.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         36567.0    23583.0         *-              30910.4                14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     6218.0      4112.0        *-               5793.2                 3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            694.0       638.0        ,.               1198.9                 1141.5
URtAN                            131.0       158.0
NM.                             5664.0      1104.0
AfISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..
IIUSS ItG
AVERACE SIZE OP BOUSENOLD
TOTAL
RUR.AL                             .                     5. 5
A'SRAGE N1lBER Of PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL
tIRBAN                              ..
RURAL
ACCESS TO ELECTRICM  (PERCENT
OF NWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
lURL                                ..         ..         .                     ..



Annex 1
-24                                                   Page 2 of 4
TABLE 3A
SOMALIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SWtET
SCKALIA                       RERlNCE QOU?S CVtWITED AVU8
-      RVST RECENT ElMAT8)AZ
MST RECENT             L0V IYCO18              MIDDLE Eiait
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE A    AFRICA SODTH OF SARARA  AFRICA SOUrT O  SA4R
EDUCAT ION
ADJnSTED ENROLLMENT IRATIOS
PRMIARY:     TOTAL                  9.0          9. 0     44.0                  37.7                    61.7
MALE                  13.0        14.0       37.0                  74.2                    69.2
FEMALE                 5.0         S. 0     32.0                  54.1                     51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  1.0          4.0       4.0                  10.0                    20.6
MALE                   2.0         7.0        6,0                  13.7                    29.2
FEMALE                0. 2         2. 0      2.0                    7.1                   14. 7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONIARY)  ..           3.0      23.0                   6.8                     7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PR IMARY                           29. 0       33.0       35.0                  45.0                    36.6
SECONDART                          20.0         23.0      14.0                  25.2                    24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         1. 5/c       5.0      60. old               25.5 
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPuLATION                          1.2          2.4        ..                   3.6                    36.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         11.0         18.0      21.0                  31.5                    83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..                   1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   1.0          2.0       1.0                   4.6                    24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.4           1.7        ..                    ..                     0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1017.0       1208.8    1642.0
FLHMALE (PERCENT)                  30. 1        29.7      26.0                  33.5                    38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              87.9         84.7      82.0                  80.7                    54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.4          5.9       7.0                   8.1                    17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                41.5         38.9      39.1                  42.2                    38.8
MALE                                 58.7         55.3      55.9                  55.1                    48.4
FEMALE                               24.7         22.8      22.8                  29.5                    29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1. 1         1.2       1.0                   1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INC*1E
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
POVERTY TAPGET CROUPS
ESTIMATED ASSOLUTE POVERTY INCOE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..                  150.0                 138.2
RURAL                                ..           ..     110.0                  86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCC(1Z
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ,.      65.0                 107.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      50.0                  65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUvTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      40.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      70.0                  66.9
Not available
Not applic able.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
_b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betweeai 1969
and 1971; and for M1ost Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/    1962;   d Increase due to literacy cmpai3n of 1974;  e/  1978  estimate.
Moat recent eatisate of GNP per capita is for 1979. all -,.e- oata are as of April, 1980.
October. 1980



Annex I.
- 25 -                                                                            Page 3 of 4
tEtPTNITlONl OF SO0CIAL INDICATORS
LoItta:  Although thie datar  dra-  iro  sources generaiy judged the most authoritative sod reliable, i  should also be utd that they may sot b  laser-
natioally  oeporblo bcauseof the lock of stoodardird orgisiti-e  sod coerspts used by difce    otisf  -ri1eotiag the data.  The data ser*. ea
thoSe as, oseful to reere fe ordero ot nuonitude, lediraetens   sdo _otrre   cenin   ao  dfeous betss... ateis
othshjrmutn(opifortplol  arpla  Oil  opotea  grop  here "Middie In-m   North Africa aed hiddle East" is chosen b....s. of  tneamgr
oocan-uloorl affninie) .  l  tic  erIrnr  geru,P data th     Seea e      arepopaior weighted arithmetices  for each tadlotee  an  shaves l sni   vitas
least half f tie. ma-cies  -ouopa    aofrtu   ndiaso.IStar  th   oeaeo   onre   mu   h   n aosdposo   b   viaiiyo
date sod in  u   nfrm ano  soont to eoernisod inrlt o   veae   f to    dtao    oose.Teeaeae   r   nyueu   nth ugariag ilhe vaf
Lol ai    thosoa.u.                                                                      toaltrtpe   hyoo               I cPulation  Os-ded by asage  or practicing  phy-
E.  btl  ufir  oes oosPrf-tig isod  -re  and islaud waesZilv    ulfr    o      eira1 arhuof atau-e-ity  esI ...
Oonirutnroh    intimte ot  gnioulural aeu use  temprail  orpran.l...lnxuec  usn .eros - Poultion divided by n-b-n of ..ratiting
for cros, panures. srhes ad hi tchergode   ortolefdlo;10  dat,                        al  and tf,sl  graduate  -uees  pra-eina1 oss, and assItstss   us
Population pe ok         ualNd     otl abn  a             -res  - Popalatfo   frotsi.
f;nP fictIPItO (oss - (Ny per rpt*55 esimate,  t cu-ret maket pnires  ta-Iha  au  eura) dfoided by their rspe`tli   aster of hospital bids
oledby sm   oor f-or method au WorM  hAnOtis, (1976-ONthPsis) ; 1'960,                    soilblot   ultadpiaegs ledaaildhsia   n   s
lh(, ad isyg ds.-                                                                            habiitstoeretei.   fldspita..  aE--  eIebissea p.           asmeman.pty stffd
tNoRly _CINSUIPTION _ftc CAPITA - A-Ica    -.uati-n of --merial ecrgy (coal                      tre .     sun .teIded.  gRa-I hospitlsl, bh-'., ineads health sad edlem
und lgio    sris,uteloE.  and hydr-, nucea  and geotherml eIe-                                 renters net Permnetly staffd by a pbysieia.  fbst isy s esit-emtae
teirityl Io kilogess  of -oa1oqulo-1et pIr -apica; 1960, 1970, and 1907oro    iwf,oo)wibafr  sptetsedte    n   rvd
data,                                                                                         limited range at medical fstilitien.FPoerstagttie.a.  frpesme arta  feapi-
POPOLATiON 001 tiTaf, STOTITTICS                                         ca~~tsl iorlde WHO.l principal general and sPeialined bospitns, an  oral.
PPLoTuS NAN         Mid-L TeArITC          -  so   uy1   90   90   o gghoapitalu  braI or rura  h.spitae aed   ei_st tad aettnity nemeses.
Tt     PPopla ion, Mi-Ir(milliy.         A.o0.l    ;190   17,ld17                        'dmissio  par Hnpta1 Ned - Total u-bee af admiaIons to nr discharges
Oats.                                                                                        true hospitole dividedb-y the us-her oftbedf.
hU  Ppuatb   (rreso   o )- eatio of orbs0 tr nata  poplantoc ;
Ontorto defiintona of -rhb- a    may cffert ceparability of data                        IOUISING
stoo  -outroec; 1960, 1900, and 1978 data.                                                Averse- io  o  gosael  (prsmaor h-sas- ld)- tes.t aisa andmea-.
Puodeoirofactlo                                                                                     hoshld  osit   fagrpof  Windidaal  .se  shoes lies,   q-ata
Pool voS  yea r 15000  -   Curen .p.ultiu. pro.ectIons are ...ad on N9                 end their male  -I..  A boarder or lodger asp oe map   e be isoladad is
tota  pcpalatiou by age  ud  Iec and thect motlt-            s fri lit    ats             tho house.hold for  -tetti-ial parposas
Proj ercuo  paramters foe mortaity rtes ..o..pese of these level  assr                  Araeu-hebo   aro              r  ro   - total. arbsa. ed  -rsr1 - A-ergs -ss-
log life oup r-tuy at hirth Jc--aine with contys Ie ra pIt ino-w                          bet o'~fMpron%e rs.             l  seban, sod rura  ue-spid  -aesttanI
lee,_d fmlrioeproeynailtga  77.5 per.   7he  as                                         welns  e-prniv-lp.  Ebeeliage  uld  ne-eemstmsewoess  sad
meters fo  feri-ty r-t  also Save three loo-    aaslu   deoline to                        uoorroplrd parca
f-rti top  --cdiug to Ioroa. l-e  and past family pianiug pe rfurmec-                   Alc.sa to  Elocteicity faetof dsellioanj -  ta.t1 urban, and ossea  -
tarS   ..octry Ia thenotluo  oeof those eioe  -obiatiu o  motality                        Cootinldeigsmhsetrit inivgqstes5pesta
and forsility  trends  fo   prjet,ion purposes.-thi.                                 of total, urban, sod rura  dwellings  eptiey
the hire, rate Is equal to the deat.h rate,an  also ibagsrutuee-                      ZO TION
Iais   onarsot.  This I  -chiovd only after fertiliny p rte  declInet                 ouidgrlsegto
tho roPl-esteo   loya  of ..it ne  -epr-d-tinc  rat, ahenI eahgenraeo                     PrmrIah         -     ti male asd famale - cress tatal, sale an  fasla
ofcmt relaprths:itnel:.,i vctly. ~The stationa.ry populatioe sin'aserims of all ages a  the primary leve  am pseosatam   of  -apeotil
entiatedon te hoIafteprjeted  thoraneristirs of the population                         primay aholeapopulaion; svuly ielndss cIdeas aged 6-11
fo the yaar lO0t, od the rate of d-rine. of fertilitY  - rten  -eplate-                      years ba-  djustad fur differast isngtha ad primary adastia; foe
noot Irnol.                                                     cruonries olth  mine~~~~~~rs.l Ida...tin   m-r11-et may amosd lId peroat
Ieurtatonry ruou1atiun Is rea be hd - Th. year wh.c s-tiouay popalation                     sin   om    aiasnhlso   bv   h    fillsial5m
alei- u henb...a-bed.                                                                     le..ondary -ohoo  - total. aa sad f-seis   C.stad as stoat  -sndmey
Muuaioltidty                                                                            edorattope .     kl-.   (     ht-)ofp   reureIt leas  four pears of app-vd primary is-trati-a;
Per eu  ho egetruinaral lan    - Computed I  above for agricultura  bed                  ...ciaded.
only                                                                                      Vortima en               'Pms  fonoe    of -srodary) - Pnnstfoma  Isetctstiam
P     Aaoto   Se SraI-r-  (Irotten     - Childrem  (0-14 yeasj   orin-ge(5-               iloclude terhira,ldson,o   ts   rge   ho    pet   nee
hA yearnj, and ratled (NI I Ier  aI  ovarj a  pretg             of mid-year popa-              d_etly or as department  of se        syI_sotes
isti-n; 1960, 1970, sod  97190dta.                                                           Osrui-tahenrto-el ryad mr-dary - lnts1  tsdests   -1rolld In
~opulatict Aronth rate frernentj - totol - A Euua  grwn  rate  of tota1 mid-       prima      .ry  n  seroar  levels Fdivded by esters nf asabara Is ebs
pear populations fnr 1950-60. 1960-Ti, sad 1970- 7 8                                            -nrreponditg 1e-a1.
PuuainIothht  rret -   ba-hoAu-I grownh rtote  of urbn p.po-                                Adul, etno       La orcn)-   ntelte adults (able en ran  and  Iets)
loions- for 5950-ho, 1960-7f, sod 1970-7B.                                                             r
Crude Birch cat -fr thious.and   - Aenua1 Ive hirthe per tho...aod  of mid-yea-spretg    fttlaatpplto   gd1   ae   n  ovr,
,populstion; 19h0, 1970, asd O9TO dots..                                                 conSpepyIo
Crde D-h Rt (a  thuad            1-Aus  doahs per th ...aod of mid-yearPssoarCe   prehuadoeltnj-Pssan asreisetr
.poplation; 1900, 1900, sud 1908 data..                                                                I         ..t- ih     r        ;-Id.-.--                    -
PEoa carodutiusRt si-Av-rago  nuber of daagbtorsasuoae  will bnao ta                        .,arr  vhcls
her noml er-I        niepotd if oeeprIIuoI  reotg-pnifnPr-                                 Radio R ..elvIe  (oar thossandroonltiri-   Altpso   amee   e   a
niliny  rates; usually  five-year averages Aendin   In 096 .100  and 1970.r    bodasst  ge.sro1 publir per thessmad of populatla; enldas semi
of birth-ot-o1 deice  sodr n..apicos of astl...l family pil...leg progrm.-                   s  ia  ff.en.    aafrrestpasmY  stb   opril   lm    a
Pastly Plsslng-isarn(portent o  married  omen  - Percntge of marrieddt                                        rt:    ...-           - 
oootrisbosbdlemi.
aoe   f  hl-boa..u  age  15-44 yeaoj rho.s  birth-curol. davires to                 TV".r.vra(reehsse   selein)-  Vreems  o  bwaoset
all marelod ocean io es-sage group.                                   ge..erol public pnr thousad pops.iaro;  -soldms slitamma  TV smvr
LOOI) ANDNUTRITION                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~In  -otrts sad In pane  whee rgintration of TN eats  -m  In effaee.
produc,tion  oftall food -oanoitiom.  Prod"utoo` ouludo  ace  anI           edan:taIo d -prtaIItIruod=a  gIsra                                              tps,Iais  nedaradpb
is  nclnaYps   ai.Cos,ditrlou-o- primary gudn (e.g.fsg,rtan                                  to bn "daily" if it appears at lease foot ti-a a sesis
Ins:tea   fsgrjwibao  dbesd     notaicu-triec-  (IEn, cffee and                           Cinema          ~ osl Attmudanr oe C ita err Ys'   -thsdamas  ,              fen
teaaeocldd    A ggoaoPrdnio  of  -ah ....nty is bame  on1                                                                                              t
-atiot1 a--rge produce  pirin  seights; 1961-65, 1970,. ad 197  data..tr osl   aln  thapear-7,leldn    dassea drie-fa olmes
far rarina surely of calories foerceri of reuuiremmata I - Camputed from      and- mohilod f  -    bilseits,
sn-gyoquioaleut ofnt  od suppliea aviloble Is  _notty per rapito                      LA_0hL lO-C
per day.  AaIIblo spplies comprise do-otin prod-ceino, imporsles                        To2ta Lao_     or_  (bua      o     Eoooo-oa1y attire paroms  istliodtm
eoporn  Ocd rhuoges    stork.' Netsplt   old   nmlfe,ses                                   sed fre   e   npoe    a   mlda   ssede,sent.s
quart...    ns l  o~-   .  d' food pruo.o..,.a.    luse t   dltr1ibur1ioo.  Stequio-      lefteitions inoeosroere    at   o   seaa ; 190. 1970an
-otn noe estimated by PAO hase d - physiological neods for o-ta  ani-                      1909 dues.
citY uod health  ...ead-orig  evroerltonpertatra, body wejns,ne                          aml (p--ert  - P)-a,, labo f.o. or  a  pr IoEsa    of total lAor frs
and n-sdistribuotion of porulotirn, hod   lwo  10prtn  fowat05                          Arclae(reej-Lbr  forei   arigf-                          rer.batn    n
hoasohold level; 1961-Al, 19700, ad 1977 data.                                             fiohing sa peeremego of total labor fort; 196, 1970 and 1975 data,
Pro notta supply of pcToi (rmupo   ac   Protein rostent of pntpt                           Inusr frra t)     ao   ore196is,tatsstn.                              aaara
ctoply of food po  day.  Not suppyo  food Is defined as above.  cR-                   an-orr ,wt-r and I955pertanag   oftotal lhor gorse; 1960.
_uree Io  o   all  outeiac estahliPubod bfy US0A prnide  f0r minimu                 1970 ond 1979 dato,
alnoeof 60 gram  of total p-trio pot day Ond (0  ram   of animl so                  .rticirtionSaefrn                  total   -I.o. and fninsl  - Participasim  or
acimal pootoic as on onoroca ~f or the world,p proposed Op PO It the Third         Peratgso   oa.ml   a   eaepplto    falae   tooiep
Inrld  rod Ornoy;1961-65, 1970 end 1900 dta.                                          1960, 1970, and 1970 data.  Thesear  life  pa-tfipttam  ratas rfletfmg
Ptr -aoltu tr-tin oucoy frosomladp se- Pro fe   sopply offood de-                            aeo    sr_roeo  the.-   p.a.e.        n   adbg  te  rnd .fwsai
rtv-d f-  animal  and p -aIe lSt-s-  par day; 1961-65, 1970 -n  1900 data,                 m Stea~ er  from na tionlsooa
Child(asral-A( fnttlitn'tate crc  h-oasd( - honu.I deahs pep trooon .      n.oomoOereec   ato-Rtin of population under 15 an  65 sad ann
trIes dao derived from  life nshlan; 1960. 1970 sed 19(0 dcta.                          INCOmIE lIIThRIBIITIOIII
A_Ig. ._bIr of                           1111~~~~poros_t,  Hiollt10 pero-t. poorest 20 perraut,. od p--as  40 persat
LIfe                                     of props~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.  cf life  -eininig  od ho-aeoldn.
atinth; l96O, 190 a-d lO7N data.
Infnt  oralio Rte(per th....odj - AO...ai deaths of Infants order  yoepro            POVERTY TARGT  GOgOOP 
ofI cope   i...sud lIne births.
Etieftsed Abaolate Poverty I-r-m Lana  foP) pIr -nita) - urao and rurol
bcnbs t   teeAtr.zrrtof poolrinp ltna.-rbo, s ,t tal-oslt W.povery lr                                                    leve -in that Incom  lee i-             hihamf
watar supply (        Innides   ,trtd uorf-nnwators or untretd hot  -nost-i_atd              affordable.--dt..i                                                    t.I.-
petrnennagen of theit r-pe-tiv- popuuelon.-          nurub,haosrnhapublt                          Idt relative  Povrty inoaslel is emS-tir  an aveagi            prt.)ie
.oortoin or  trandpost loca.ted nov mrn than 200 seneca from   hous  map he                P..rso.I ion  ofte  oaty               rbs- lana  is dertIvedfrom  ibs  -.ta
ioodrf  nhtg withi   ---ontoacos  ofththos.  In rura  oreaarfrhgbrc.to                                                                 i.gJ     b
reso  ble ornss  oud  Impytan-nhuswf                -r oh    of the ho..sehold             lplwtadu thsu  fa"I"Oe   ot  flvngi   oaness
do oct ha-  to spend.0dlsyrop-rnios ..~     Porn of zteday io  rrtrhlcg  she                  n  ua       era   fppltu   uba   s   ua)vs  e   ssosspa"
cuosl - Ounher of proplo (total, urhan, ond rorul( nerved hyropril,r1ta



Annex I
Page 4 of 4
SO1ALIA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GNP PER CAPITA:  US$185 (1978)-                                                                               MONEY, CREDITS AND PRICES
CENTRAL GOVERKfENT FINANCE                                                                                                                            Dec.       Dec.       Dec.        Dec.
Est.                                                                            1976       1977       1978       1979
1976    1977      1978      1979                                                                                       (Million So.Sh.)
(Million So.Sh.)
Bank Claims on Governiment (net)    124.4        -97.8      311.1   1,231.4
Total Revenue                             656      843      1394      1506                                     Bank Claims on Private Sector
Current Expenditure                       649      770      1353      1603                                       and Public Enterprises              986.4   1,280.7   1,404.7   1,725.7
Current Surplus or Deficit (-)               7      73        41    (-)97                                     Money Supply                           994.9   1,325.1   1,728.0   2,335.2
Development Expenditure                   165      211       197       265
Extra Budgetary Expenditure               --       279       541       802                                                                              (Percentage or Index Numbers)
BALA'CE OF PAYMENTS                                                       2/   Provis pnal                    General Price Index (1977-100)          91.1      100.0      110.0      136.2
1975    1976      1977      1978-       1979-                       Annual Percentage Changes in:
(Million US$)                                            Gcncral Price Index                     14.7         9.8       10.0       23.8
Bank Claims on Private Sector
Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)             88.6    81.0       71.3    109.4        105.9                           and Public Enterprises               -5.3        29.8       9.7        22.8
Herchandise Imports (c.i.f.)           -162.2  -176.0   -205.9   -275.1         -394.1                        Money Supply                            20.5        33.2      30.4       35.1
Trade Balance                           -73.6   -95.0   -134.6   -165.7         -288.2
MERCIHANDISE EXPORTS
Services, Net                           -28.6   -15.1       -6.0      -4.8       -11.6
Transfers, Net                          102.2    40.9    108.1    105.8           94.1                                                                Average 1976-78              1 9 7 9
Current Account Balance                  -0.1   -69.2    -32.5    -64.7         -205.7                                                                us$ MIn.   X           US$ Mln.  %
Long-Term Capital                        52.1    70.8       71.8      78.8        87.5                        Livestock                                 60.9      69.1          75.3      71.0
Short-Term Capital and                                                                                        Bananas'                                  15.2      17.2         11.6       11.0
Errors anid Omissions                 -22.2    14.8    -11.0        -6.0       35.7                         Meat and Meat Products                     3.0       3.4          1.2       1.1
Reserves and Related Items               29.9   -16.4    -28.3        -8.1        84.5                        Hides and Skins                            3.8       4.3           9.0       8.5
Fish and Fish Products                     1.5       1.7          0.4       0.4
International Reserves (end year)        68.4    84.9    120.0    126.3          43.8                         Others                                     3.7       4.3          8.5       8.0
Petroleum Imports                        19.1    18.5       38.7      --           --                         Total                                     88.1    100.0         106.0    100.0
RATE OP EXCHANCE   US$1.00 - So.Sh. 6.295 (Since 1973)                                                        EXTERNAL DEBT                             US$ Mln.
Public Debt (Dec. 31, 1979)1/              906.1
(of which Disbursed)                   (545.7)
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                          %
Public Debt 1979 (estimate)               8.0
IDA LENDING (Nov. 30. 1980)             US$ Mln.
Outstanding and Disbursed                  70.7
Undisbursed                                75.8
Outstanding inc. Undisbursed              146.5
January 1981
-- Not available.
1/ Based on tentative estimates of National Accounts recently prepared by the Bank.
2/ The import data for 1978 and 1979 include but previous years' exclude Franco Valuta imports.
Excludes undisbursed commitments from East European countries, totalling $154 million, which are not expected to be disbursed any further.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
A.   Statement of IDA Credits (as of November 30, 1980)
(US$ Million)
Amount   Undisbursed
(net of cancellations
No.       Year    Borrower          Purpose             and exchange adjustments)
(CY)
Six credits fully disbursed                                 34.9
462-so    1974    Somalia    Trans-Juba Livestock           10.0        2.7
511-S0    1974    Somalia    Second Education                8.0        0.7
586-SO    1975    Somalia    Mogadishu Port Extension    5.2            0.2
623-SO    1976    Somalia    Drought Rehabilitation         8.0         3.8
635-SO    1976    Somalia    North-West Agriculture         ].0.0       5.4
698-S0    1977    Somalia    Somall Development Bank         5.0        3.4
699-S0    1977    Somalia    Third Highway (Bargeisa-
Borama)                      7.0        4.0
738-SO    1977    Somalia    Third Education                8.0         7.0
821-S0    1978    Somalia    Technical Assistance            3.0        2.9
822-SO    1978    Somalia    Mogadishu Water Supply          6.0        5.5
838-SO    1978    Somalia    Fourth Port                     5.5        4.6
905-SO    1979    Somalia    Agriculture Extension          10.5       10.4
906-SO    1979    Somalia    Central Rangelands             8.0         7.5
972-SO    1979    Somalia    Bay Agriculture                12.0       11.9
1043-SO   1980    Somalia    Petroleum Expoloration
Promotion 1/                  6.0        6.0
Total                      147.1       75.8
of which has been paid       0.6
total now held by IDA      146.5
11   Not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION - SOMALIA 1/
Credit No. 462:      Livestock (Trans-Juba) Project; $10 million Credit of
February 20, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: October 29,
1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Despite poor performance in the past, the holding ground/stock
route/borehole complex is now expected to be completed before the recently
extended closing date.
Credit No. 511:      Second Education Project; $8 million Credit of September 19,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1974; Closing
Date: March 31, 1981.
The Elementary Teachers Training College is complete and in use.
Construction of the nomadic centers, the Academy of Somali Studies and the
Fishery and Marine Institutes are about a year behind schedule due to staff-
ing shortage of the Project Unit and due to contractor's limited capacity.
Construction contracts have been awarded for project institutions and physical
progress has improved considerably. Latest cost estimates indicate an overrun
of about 10 percent.
Credit No. 623:      Drought Rehabilitation Program -- Juba-Shebelli Emergency
Settlement Scheme; $8 million Credit of July 7, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
The Project, conceived during the 1973/74 drought emergy was
inadequately prepared. As a result, it now appears that there is marginal
potential for rainfed cropping, the project's main thrust. It was since
agreed to restrict initial development to trial areas where different crops,
cultivation techniques and alternative machinery can be tested.
Credit No. 635:      North-West Region Agricultural Development Project;
$10 million Credit of July 7, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
February 9, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Physical progress have improved recently. The field bunding program
and the construction of livestock water points are both ahead of schedule.
However, field utilization and production data have yet to be collected, and
applied research and extension are deficient due to lack of water. The
arrival of the Financial Controller and the Project Planner should improve
performance, especially as regards bottlenecks of supplies, materials, fuels,
seeds and other farm inputs. External training is being organized and a test
drilling contract was recently awarded.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Credit No. 698:      Somali Development Bank;  $5 million Credit of June 1, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
SDB's volume of operations and also disbursements under the IDC
Credit to date was slower than projected due mainly to the poor climate for
industrial investment in Somalia. SDB has now committed up to 72% of the
Credit and has requested IDA to consider making a second line of credit
available to it. Implementation of the technical assistance component of the
Project, including training of Somali staff and recruitment of expatriate
advisers, is progressing.
Credit No. 699:      Third Highway Project; $7 million Credit of June 1, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 24, 1978; Closing Date;
December 30, 1980.
The contract for construction works on the Hargeisa-Borama road,
with a link to Tug Wajale, was awarded and consultants engaged to carry out
supervision. The contractor started work on January 10, 1978. However, the
construction work has come to a standstill as a result of border hostilities
in the Project area. Expatriate staff of the contractor have resigned and
left the Project site. The Contractor has expressed his inability to carry on
with the work, and has requested Government to terminate his contract. A
decision in the matter is expected to be made by Government shortly. The
feasibility study for the Dinsor-Bardera--Gelib road has been prepared and is
under review. The closing date would be extended depending upon the finnal
arrangement to be agreed for the completion of the road.
Credit No. 738:      Third Education Project; $8 million Credit of September 30,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 13, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983.
Tender documents for the Kisimayo School of Nursing is ready and
those for the Livestock and Forestry School are near completion. The buildings
for the Health Personnel Training Center are under construction and have
reached 60% completion. Technical assistance was recruited for the manpower
survey and for the National Trade-Testing Center. The manpower survey was
completed in August 1979. Nine Somalis have almost completed studies abroad
in curriculum development. The technical and accountancy sections of the
Project Unit are adequately staffed and overall progress is satisfactory.
Credit No. 821:      Technical Assistance Project; $3 million Credit of June 30,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 1, 1979; Closing Date:
December 1, 1981.
The Senior Project Advisor has been appointed and several sub-projects
have been identified. Preparation for some of the sub-projects is in progress.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Credit No. 822:      Mogadishu Water Supply Project; $6 million Credit of
June 30, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 2, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The Technical Operations Advisor and the Financial Advisor have been
appointed, accounting consultants have completed their assignments, while
tariff and training consultants are yet to be appointed. The findings of the
water resource investigations, which were completed late in 1979, have resulted
in a change in the site of the wellfield to be constructed under the Project.
Bids have been received for the three remaining contracts and the contract for
one of these, the drilling of production wells, has been awarded. The awards
of the two remaining contracts are expected by early in 1981. A cost overrun
of about $5.2 million equivalent, largely due to slippage, the change in site
of the wellfield and provision for a transmission main of increased capacity,
has been projected.
Credit No. 838:      Fourth Port Project; $5.5 million Credit of August 23, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: June 27, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
The bids for construction of the Tanker Terminal were received
recently. The bids are substantially higher than appraisal estimate. Various
options for reducing project cost are under review.
Credit No. 905:      Agricultural Extension and Farm Management Training Project:
$10.5 million Credit of May 10, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
August 31, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Although Project start-up was delayed by about one year due to a
delay in credit effectiveness, it is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit No. 906:      Central Rangelands Development Project; $8 million Credit
of May 10, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: June 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
A delay in credit effectiveness produced a proportionate delay in
Project start-up, but the Project is now proceeding satisfactorily. The
resource inventory of the central rangelands was recently broadened to include
the Northwest Region.
Credit No. 972:      Bay Region Agricultural Development Project; $12 million
Credit of December 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
September 12, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987.
Though delayed by a few months by a delay in credit effectiveness,
Project start-up is now proceeding satisfactorily. Continued satisfactory
progress will depend on Project maragement s ability to secure the cooperation
of other Government entities operatL ig in the Bay Region.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SOMALIA
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the
project                                            Six months
(b)  The agency which prepared the project              Government with
assistance of UNESCO
(c)  First presentation to the Bank                     December 1979
(d)  First mission to consider the project              February 1980
(e)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission             February 1980
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations                 December 5, 1980
(g)  Planned date of effectivenes                       May/June 1981
II. Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
(a) The length of the secondary teacher training course at
the Lafole College of Education would be increased from
its present two years to three years starting in 1983/84.
More science and practice teaching would be included in
the curriculum. Intake will be gradually reduced
in order to stabilize the output at about 150 teachers
(para. 59);
(b) The present student/teacher ratio of 24:1 in general
secondary schools would be maintained (para. 60);
(c) Enrollments in general secondary schools would be related
to the Government's financial capacity and identified manpower
requirements (para. 62);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) For development of the SIDAM, an agreement would be made
with an appropriately experienced institute or college
acceptable to the Association by not later than March 31,
1982 to supply on a team basis the technical assistance
included in the project. The selection, including
terms and conditions would be subject to review by the
Association (para. 63); and
(e) The civil service study would be carried out on terms of
reference acceptable to the Association and the Government
would consult the Association on the findings and recommen-
dations of the study with a view to implementing a mutually
agreed program to improve public employment. The study
will be completed not later than December 31, 1982 (para. 65).



IBRD15068
MAY UON
~PEOPLE'S t)EMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF YE-MEN
DJ
B  IS                                                                                     Bender BeiMirle'IAL
I     GroHagi  YLO.                                                         **              AG
eOHOOLE   ~  Las Ano   c-i KOR
I  EL. BABEE ~~~~~~~BeIARADG eRGAV
RULE~~~ BURT
BOId~~~~ur Akab       HI DL
I-.- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ =,-                       W0ROin 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ G ARMGE
I'll)              -        IADIN   OCEA



