Document of                        FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3059-SO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IN THE
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
January 15, 1981
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =     Somali Shilling (So.Sh.)
US$0.1589           =     So. Sh. 1.00
US$1.00             =      So. Sh. 6.295
SDR 1.00            =     SDR 0.783 (November 30, 1980)
SDR 1.00            =     US$1.28
MEASURES
1 meter (m)       2               3.28 (ft.
1 square meter (m )               10.76 (ft )
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE O-TLY
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUELIC
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
-   BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
I.   INTRODUCTION ......................................... o.................    I
II.   DEVELOPHENT AND HUMAN RESOURCE NEEDS ....      ..................    1
Socio-Economic Setting ... ......................... ........... .    1
Development Objectives .... ......... . ...................... .    2
Manpower and Employment ...................................    2
III.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR ......................................    4
Objectives, Policy and Strategy   ...........................    4
The Organization and Administration of the Education System    6
The Formal Education System ......................... ........    6
The Nonformal Education System ....o...-...o ....o...........   10
Financing Education Development ... o..............0...........   11
Role of the Bank in Somali Education .o        .........-..     14
IV. THE PROJECT .o .             .......... o_ ..... 15
Objectives ........ ...............    ......................    15
Project Components ...... . ... .. ........... .                15
Primary Teacher Training Resource Centers          .15
Lafole College of Education.                                17
General Secondary Schools                    .              18
The Somali Institute of Development Administration and
Management .       o-           ....... -.o..18
Pre-investment, Evaluation and Civil Service
Employment Studies      ......            .       . - - . .   19
Technical Assistance Summary             .                      20
Female Participation in the Education System and Project ..   20
V.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN   ......  -oo.............    21
Project Cost                 ....21
Financial Plan ......... .o ..... .-. . .    23
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Somalia in
February/March 1980 composed of Ms. R.G. Brandenburg (economist, mission
leader), Messrs. K. Andersen (architect), R.F. McMahon (technical/educator-
consultant) and B. Braithwaite (educator-consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
VI.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS          23
Implementation ..     ..........................................   23
Procurement    ...............................................   24
Disbursements          ............ 25
VII.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS AND RISKS .26
VIII.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..............  27
ANNEXES
Annex 1    -    Tables and Charts
Table 1   -    Comparative Education Indicators
2   -    Manpower Requirements.(1979-1983) in the Public Sector and
Private Non Agricultural Sector
3    -   Primary Education, Actual and Projected Enrollments, 1972-1989
4   -   Primary Education Teacher Requirements and Supply, 1978-1989
5   -   General Secondary Education, Actual and Projected Enrollments
1973-1990
6    -   General Secondary Education, Teacher Requirement and Supply,
1978-1990
7    -    Organization, Enrollments and Teachers, 1978-1979
8   -   Government Expenditures on Education
9    -    Summary of Enrollment and Estimated Project Costs
10   -    Implementation Schedule
11    -    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Chart 1   -    Education Pyramid, 1978-1979
2   -    Ministry of Education Organization Chart
3   -    Structure of the Educational System
Annex 2    -    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Key to Map
MAP IBRD No. 15068



- iii -
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA - 1978
General
2
Area                                               637,000 km
Population                                         4.0 million
Per Capita Income                                  $185
Literacy Rate                                      50% (est.)
Labor Force                                             1,600,000
Public Sector                                      74,000
Private Non-agricultural                           75,000
Private Agricultural                               1,233,000
Other                                              183,000
Education
Enrollment in Primary
Schools (Grades 1-6)                               263,750
- as % of 6-11 age group                           44%
Enrollment in Secondary
Schools (Grades 7-10)                              18,415
- as % of 12-15 age group                          5.0%
Enrollment in General Secondary Schools
(Grades 7-10)                                      11,000
- as % of 12-15 age group                          3.0%
Enrollment in National University                  2,800
Recurrent Expenditure of Ministry of
Education and the Ministry of
Culture and Higher Education                  So. Sh. 150.1 million
- as % of Government Recurrent
Expenditure                                   11.0%
Capital Expenditure of the Ministry
of Education and the Ministry of
Culture and Higher Education                 So. Sh. 18.6 million
- as % of the Government capital
expenditure                                  9.4%



v



- iv -
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
GLOSSARY
CDD   -    Curriculum Development Division of the MOE
CEC   -    Community Education Center
EEC   -    European Economic Community
FRG   -    Federal Republic of Germany
FYDP  -    Five Year Development Program.  (1974-78)
ICB   -    International Competitive Bidding
MCHE  -    Ministry of Culture and Higher Education
MOE   -    Ministry of Education
MPW   -    Ministry of Public Works
NAEC  -    National Adult Education Center
NTC   -    Nomadic Training Center
PIU   -    Project Implementation Unit
PTTRC -    Primary Teacher Training Resource Center
SIDAM -    Somali Institute of Development Administration and Management
SPA   -    State Printing Agency
TTEC  -    Technical Teacher Education College
TYDP  -    Three Year Development Plan. (1979-81)
UPE   -    Universal Primary Education



4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C                           lb



SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Somali Democratic Republic has requested Bank Group assistance
in implementing selected components of its educational plan prepared as a part
of its Three Year Development Plan (TYDP), (1979-1981). After initial discus-
sions with the Government in 1978, a sector memorandum was prepared by Bank
Group staff which identified the principal needs of the education and training
sector.  In November 1978 and April 1979, Bank Group education missions visited
Somalia and further helped the Government develop the proposed project. The
Government, with UNESCO assistance, finalized the preparation document in
*         November/December 1979, and officially submitted it to the Bank Group in
January 1980.
1.02      The proposed US$10.2 million equivalent IDA credit would provide
assistance to specific objectives of the education plan to: (a) improve
the quality of primary and secondary school teachers; (b) provide science
facilities to existing secondary schools; (c) provide a modest number of new
general secondary schools to improve quality and equity in remote rural areas;
and (d) strengthen administration and management in the education sector and
provide technical assistance in public administration and training and for a
study of the civil service system.
II. DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES NEEDS
Socio-Economic Setting
2.01      5ituated on the Horn of Africa, Somalia extends over an area of
637,000 km and borders the Indian Ocean and the Gulf of Aden. With a per
capita income estimated at US$185, Somalia is one of the least developed
countries in Africa. The population estimated at 4.0 million in 1978, is
a homogeneous, ethnic, and linguistic group of predominantly Hamitic stock.
About 60% of the population are nomadic or semi-nomadic pastoralists living
under harsh conditions who suffer from periodic droughts. A further 20% are
settled small-scale farmers and about 20% are non-agricultural people who
live primarily in the urban areas.
2.02      Since the early 1970-s, the Government has adhered to a program of
"Scientific Socialism" emphasizing egalitarianism and social justice.
Somalia's development efforts have aimed at improving the living conditions
of its rapidly growing population and strengthening national control over its
resources. Against a background of austerity and self reliance, this strategy
was predicated on the mobilization of the people through self help, crash
programs, and the establishment of cooperatives and state farms. This economic
strategy has resulted in an increasing reliance on the public sector.



- 2 -
2.03      The economy of the country is predominantly agricultural, with
agriculture contributing about 63% of GDP.  Of the non-agricultural sectors of
the economy, manufacturing and transport contributes about 5%, and Government
services about 11% of GDP. The rest is contributed by construction, finance
and other services. In recent years, to some extent, domestic unemployment
pressures have been relieved by the increasing employment cpjrtunities in the
neighboring oil producing exporting countries of the Middle East.
2.04      The Five Year Development Program (FYDF), 1974-78 emphasized those
sectors affecting the majority of the population, i.e., agriculture (for
livelihood) and the social sectors (for basic needs). The original program
envisaged a level of expenditure of So. Sh. 3.9 billion in 1973 prices. Due
to the rise in prices, the cost of the program rose to So. Sh. 7.0 billion.
The total actual investment however, only reached a level of So. Sh. 4.3
billion, so that the overall rate of implementation of the FYDP was about
60%. In addition to the inflation problem which hampered the program was the
drought of 1974-75 which led to widespread crop failures and livestock losses.
Development Objectives
2.05      Somalia's current Three Year Development Plan (TYDP), 1979-81 was
launched in January 1979. The Drogram is mainly a composite of projects
carried over from the FYDP but includes some new projects. The planned
expenditure is So. Sh. 7.1 billion, of which, 35.4% will go to agriculture,
livestock and fisheries; 18% to mineral exploration and manufacturing; 28.8%
to economic infrastructure; 7.4% to education; and 10.4% to other sectors.
2.06      The TYDP gives high priority to (a) food production through the
mobilization of the population engaged in the agricultural sector; (b) agro-
based industries; and (c) rural development programs in order to obtain
internal self sufficiency as well as increasing exports. The present plan
recognizes the need for the decentralization of the preparation and implemen-
tation of development projects to regional and district levels, in order to
enable people throughout the country to be directly involved. The TYDP
places special emphasis on the promotion of the social sectors (health and
education). In the education sector, particular attention is to be directed
to teacher training, the production of educational materials and equipment,
literacy and programs for women. The TYDP also continues programs from the
FYDP in the strengthening of health services (emphasis on preventive medicine)
and the eradication of principal communicable diseases such as bilharzia and
malaria.
Manpower and Employment
2.07      The estimated total population of 4.0 million is growing at the
rate of between 2.5 and 3% p.a. About 45% (1.7 million) of the population
are under fifteen years of age this ratio is similar to countries such as
Zambia with (46%), Senegal (42%), and Tanzania (44%). The working age popu-
lation (15-65) is estimated to be two million, which results in a high depen-
dency ratio of 0.90. In order to develop quantitative estimates of the need



- 3 -
for trained manpower, a manpower survey was financed by the Third Education
Project (Credit 738-So). This survey was completed in the fall of 1979 and
was the most comprehensive survey conducted in Somalia in terms of geographical
coverage. In particular, information on the private sector was collected in a
survey in 72 towns ranging from the capital city Mogadiscio, with over 14,000
establishments to small localities with as few as nine establishments. In
the case of the public sector, all Government ministries, departments, and
autonomous agencies were enumerated.
*         2.08      Besides the growth in public sector activities, the emigration of
skilled personnel to the Gulf States has aggravated manpower shortages.
Economically this emigration may not be a disadvantage to the country, however,
since Somali workers remit substantial amounts to their families through the
franco valuta system. The remittances in kind accounted for a third of total
imports in 1978. While emigration is a chronic problem in view of the size
of earning differentials, the Government has recently issued a "Technical Law"
which provides some incentive to various categories of technical personnel
in the public sector. Nevertheless, it is felt that many valuable workers
would be prepared to stay in Somalia, or return, by improving working condi-
tions in Somalia, such as raising salary scales, and rewarding superior
performance.
2.09     In 1978, according to the manpower survey, about 150,000 people
were employed in the salaried and self-employed urban sector--about 9% of the
estimated total labor force of 1.6 million. Urban employment grew relatively
rapidly between 1971 and 1978 at 5.5% p.a. as compared to an estimated increase
of the total labor force of under 2% p.a. The main factor which has contri-
buted to the increase in urban employment has been the rapid increase in
public sector employment. The Government policy of guaranteeing employment
to all secondary school leavers has led to an increase in Government employ-
ent of more than 16% p.a. over the last decade. In the absence of trained
managerial personnel the civil service has become increasingly inefficient.
The increase in employment was accompanied by a policy to keep salaries low
and in fact due to inflation these were further decreased in real terms. To
counteract this situation a thorough overhaul of public employment and re-
muneration policies appears a prerequisite to better management. A possible
solution would be to alter the Government policy which guarantees public
employment to all secondary school leavers and at the same time improve salary
scales and other incentives for better work performance. Until Government
*         employment is reduced, there is little room in the budget for salary improve-
ments. The private sector grew at the rather low rate of about 2% p.a.
between 1971 and 1978. The TYDP, however, projected that private sector
employment would grow at 7% p.a.
2.10     The manpower survey estimates requirements on the basis of employers-
estimates of their future manpower needs. Accordingly, over the period
1978-1983, the urban sector including replacements, would absorb about 50,000
new workers. This increase is lower than the numbers of primary and secondary
school leavers projected by the Ministry of Education (MOE) and Bank Group
staff (Annex 1, T-3 and T-5). Nonetheless, given the Government-s rural
development priority, the primary school graduates should find employment in



- 4 -
the rural sector and in projects included in tha TYDP whose implementation
will extend well beyond 1981. However, the final balance between supply and
demand will depend to some extent on the amount of emigration. In addition,
taking into account the expected growth in the number of professional, tech-
nical, an( skilled jobs and the relatively low level of qualifications of the
present labor force, there is clearly a need for improving the quality and
efficiency of education and training through extended and improved training
of primary and secondary teachers (paras. 4.02 and 4.12).
2.11      Scarcity of skills is a common problem both in the rural and urban
sectors. In assessing the implementation of the FYDP, the TYDP identifies
the lack of skilled personnel as one of the main factors delaying implemen-
tation and increasing operating costs. Examples of such shortages exist
throughout the wage economy.
2.12      Technical and vocational education as well as managerial, adminis-
trative and accounting education need further development. The manpower
study clearly identified the need for qualitative improvement and increased
effectiveness of the countrys training institutions. For this reason,
technical assistance is included to develop a long range plan to: (a) produce
and upgrade skilled manpower particularly at the intermediate, and lower
technical/vocational level (para. 4.20); and (b) develop managerial capabili-
ties and clerical skills of those currently-employed (paras. 4.16 and 4.20).
III. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Objectives, Policy and Strategy
3.01      Before the 1969 revolution, priority was accorded to secondary
education for a selected minority. Since that date the main emphasis has
been put on primary and adult education, to enable the maximum numbers of
people to profit from education and thereby participate more fully in social
and economic activities. In 1975, compulsory but free primary education
was introduced, with the objective of attaining universal primary education
(UPE) as quickly as possible. Enrollments increased rapidly, not only in
primary schools but also in secondary schools (Annex 1, T-3, T-4, T-5, and
T-6, and Chart 1). To widen educational opportunities at the primary level,
with the available resources, the Government (a) reduced the length of the
primary cycle from eight to six years, to permit more entrants in grade 1,
thus expanding the base, and (b) reduced the length of the primary teacher
training course from two years to one year. However, the Government has
realized that the quality of school leavers has deteriorated over the last
few years. Accordingly, beginning with the 1980-81 school year, the primary
cycle will again be eight years long. The primary teacher training course
has already been increased to two years again. As for adult education, a
vigorous drive towards universal literacy began in 1974-1975, when all
schools were closed and all teachers, assisted by national service personnel,
were sent into the countryside to give literacy training to adults. Well
over a million adults were enrolled in literacy classes, many of them in



facilities built under a large, self-help construction program. Some 850
adult learning centers are presently operational. Following the 1974-1975
year of school closure, the admission to grade 1 of primary education rapidly
increased to 134,000 from the 1973-1974 figure of 24,000. This figure
represented 140% of the estimated seven-year-olds in the population; obviously,
most of the proper age cohort as well as a large number of overage children
began primary school in 1974. In the three subsequent years, the initial
enrollment was a smaller figure, representing only seven-year-olds, for the
most part. At the beginning of the 1980-1981 school year, however, the
figure is expected to jump again, since the Government has recently decided
to lower the age of entry from seven to six years. In September 1980,
therefore, most of the seven-year olds but also about 65% of the six-year-olds
will be entering school.
3.02      The number of students completing primary school rose from 7,600 in
1977 to an estimated 35,000 in 1980, causing heavy pressure on the Government
to expand secondary school places. The output of the primary school system
in 1979 has already produced a sudden increase in enrollments in the first
year of general secondary schools (from 3,000 to 5,500) and it is estimated
that a further increase to 8,000 will take place in 1980 when the impact of
the 1975 admissions to the first grade will be felt. Admissions in secondary
level education are then expected to fall somewhat until 1985-1987. The
Government has indicated that, in the future, 20% of the number of primary
school leavers will be terminated, and the 80% shall be enrolled in post
primary education, as follows:
-  in general secondary schools            24%
-  in technical secondary schools          14%
-  in vocational education                 42%
In 1978, of the 10,300 children completing primary school, 31% were terminated
with the balance enrolled as follows:
-  entering general secondary school    53%
-  entering technical secondary school   8%
-  entering vocational school               8%
From these figures it is evident that the Government will have considerable
difficulty in implementing its policy for post-primary enrollments. Signifi-
cantly, over twice as many students as intended proceeded to general secondary
education, and only about a quarter of the number intended proceeded to
technical and vocational education. Although the Government still publicly
adheres to its stated policy, there seems to be a tacit understanding within
the Government that general secondary school enrollments wil be expanded as
quickly as resources permit and that the targets of 14% and 42%, respectively
for technical education and vocational training, are quite unrealistic targets
in view of the high capital costs involved and the shortage of qualified and
well trained technical and vocational teachers. Consequently, an uncon-
trolled expansion of general secondary school enrollments may take place.



- 6 -
3.03      Results from the recent manpower study financed under the IDA
Third Education Project, indicate that shortages of craftsmen and technicians
exist. Because the Government's de facto policy on secondary education
appears to be at variance with its stated intentions, (para. 3.02) future
expansion within the secondary education subsector should rcc2ive closer
attention. The Government moreover, should be encouraged to proceed with the
expansion of general secondary education in accordance with its ability to
finance such expansion and should expand only based upon identified manpower
needs (paras. 4.15 and 8.01 (e)).
The Organization and Administration of the Education System
3.04      The MOE and the Ministry of Culture and Higher Education (MCHE)
share responsibility for the formal education system and also for most non-
formal education. The MOE is responsible for primary, secondary, technical
and adult education as well as for primary teacher training, and to a
certain extent, vocational training. Education planning is centralized,
but the Government is in the process of delegating greater responsibility
to the sixteen regional authorities. The MCHE is responsible for university
level education, secondary teacher training, libraries, museums and other
cultural institutions. In addition to these two ministries, several other
ministries conduct limited training in specialized areas.
3.05      In 1972, the Latin script was officially adopted and Somali became
the official language of the country; Arabic and English are the second and
third languages. To facilitate these developments, an Academy for Somali
Studies (renamed the Somali National Academy of Science and Arts) has been
established the functions of which include research into the writing of the
Somali language and revival of national culture.
3.06      The Curriculum Development Division (CDD) of the MOE's Department
of Teacher Training and Curriculum Development is responsible for the develop-
ment of curricula for primary and secondary education and primary teacher
training. The CDD staff select, purchase, produce, and distribute textbooks
for students and manuals for teachers. Books and booklets for nonformal
education are produced by the National Adult Education Center (NAEC) and by
the Women's Education Section of the MOE's Department of Nonformal Education.
3.07      Virtually, all printed educational materials are produced at the
Ministry of Information's State Printing Agency (SPA). In addition to
textbooks, the SPA prints office forms, government documents, newspapers,
and a range of other printed materials required by the country.
The Formal Education System
3.08      Primary education presently lasting six years is being increased
to eight years at the beginning of the 1980-1981 school year. The medium of
instruction is Somali. In 1978/79 there were nearly 264,000 students and
about 8,140 teachers giving a student-teacher ratio of 32:1 which numerically
is fairly generous, but in view of the relatively young, inexperienced and
marginally trained teaching force is acceptable until the teachers become more
mature and experienced.



- 7 -
3.09      Internal Efficiency and Access.  Primary school enrollments repre-
sented only 13% of the age group in 1973-1974 but increased to about 44% in
1978-1979. Progression rates are about 75%, which is average for a developing
country. The projected number of children enrolled in primary education at
the end of the next decade represents only about 65% of the estimated age
group at that time. This is a reasonable goal, since it would be unfeasible
to attempt to enroll a higher proportion, given Somalia's present situation
with respect to the nomadic population. Participation rates reflect a range
from almost 100% around Mogadiscio to 11% in remote inland areas.
3.10      Quality of Primary Education.  The Government provides pupils with
textbooks printed by the SPA. Pupils buy their own exercise books, pens,
pencils, and other equipment. No provision is made for teacher aids other
than chalk. Most rooms have a chalkboard, and teaching is confined to using
the chalkboard and giving information orally, to supplement that in the
textbooks. The lack of appropriate teaching aids is a serious handicap to
effective teaching (para. 4.08). Primary school facilities vary from the
large, well constructed multishift town schools to the small mud and wattle
buildings in rural areas. Many of the smaller schools lack facilities for
the full cycle of primary education. Responsibility for providing physical
facilities is shared between the Government and local communities (who provide
self-help).
3.11      Secondary Education.  There are 36 general secondary schools in
Somalia, enrolling 11,000 students (1978-1979) with 700 teachers. The
student/teacher ratio of 16:1 was too low and uneconomic. However, the
Government gave assurances that the student/teacher ratio had increased and
will be maintained at 24:1 at least. Girls represent 24% of the enrollment.
The total enrollment of 11,000 students represents 3% of the relevant age
group. The rate of promotion from primary to secondary education has in-
creased rapidly in recent years, with 53% of primary school leavers being
promoted to secondary education in 1978-1979. The Government hopes to reduce
this promotion rate to 40% by 1980 and to 24% in subsequent years. On the
basis of this projection, there would be a trebling of enrollments from
1978-1979 to 1989-1990, from 11,000 to 33,000 (Annex 1, T-6). A surplus of
secondary school graduates is likely to occur during the early 1980s and
measures should be taken to relate enrollments to the Government's ability to
finance such an expansion and should expand at this time only based on man-
power needs (para. 4.15).
3.12      Internal Efficiency and Access.  Quantitative efficiency at the
secondary level is fairly high. Completion rates are close to 70%, and the
general secondary examination pass rate in 1977 was 85% for boys and 80% for
girls. The distribution of secondary level students between general and
technical courses (Annex 1, T-7) indicates the strong preference for general
secondary schools in spite of the Government-s stated policy to orient over
twice as many students toward technical and vocational education than to
general education (para. 3.02). General secondary schools only offer arts
and sciences courses. Because of poorly trained science teachers, science



- 8 -
teaching is largely ineffective. Community self-help and Government-built
schools make no provision for practical courses in wood and metal work, home
economics or arts and crafts, and it is not now Government policy to do so,
though such facilities were provided in the 21 secondary schools built under
the IDA F4rst and Second Education Projects (paras. 3.36-3.39). The desired
development of technical and vocational training will be impossible without an
extensive increase in the number of teachers and facilities. The increased
numbers of pupils leaving primary school will inevitably result in more
pressure for more places in secondary schools. The Government-s inability
to provide more places in technical secondary and vocational education is
already resulting in an over-high proportion entering general secondary
schools (para. 3.18).
3.13      The standard of secondary school buildings is fairly good.  New
schools built by community effort, with Government assistance and under
Government supervision, have adequate classrooms, some laboratory spaces, and
a library. They have adequate classroom furniture, but apparently none have
furniture or equipment in the science rooms. The distribution of secondary
schools is very uneven. Most are concentrated around Mogadiscio and Hargeisa,
with little provision in the nomadic regions and none in the new agricultural
and fishery settlements.
3.14      Quality of secondary education.  The Government is endeavoring to
implement a policy of mass education, with 80% of children continuing some
form of education or training after primary level (para. 3.02). Such a
policy has considerable financial implications which appears not to have been
assessed by the Government's planners, but it is becoming clearer to them
that to maintain a high quality of post-primary education/training is beyond
Government s present resources. Consequently, the more expensive types of
education and training such as laboratory science, commerce, and industrial
arts teaching, are receiving only marginal attention relative to academic
subjects. As evidenced by examination results, the teaching of academic
subjects is of a satisfactory standard, but teaching in other areas is of only
marginal value. The teaching of laboratory sciences is less than adequate due
largely to the lack of equipment and consumable materials (paras. 4.10 and
4.15).
3.15      Teacher education.  The Halane Primary Teachers' College in
Mogadiscio, was opened in 1976 and is the country's only primary teacher
training college. Enrollment in 1978-79 was 2,856 students in two-year
courses after primary level. To meet the urgent need for primary teachers,
Halane operated two one-year accelerated courses in 1976-77 and 1977-78 and
graduated about 4,000 students, and in addition, one-year courses in temporary
accommodations were held in 1972 and 1975 which together graduated a total of
2,200 students. These 6,200 teachers form the backbone of the 8,100 primary
teacher training force. The balance is made up mostly of untrained primary
and secondary school leavers with a force of perhaps 500 who have been
trained two years at the Lafole College of Education and the Hargeisa Primary
Teacher Training College; neither one operates primary teacher training
courses. Halane's present capacity is sufficient to meet projected needs for
primary school teachers. To improve the quality of primary teachers, the MOE
has programmed a substantial number of upgrading courses, assistance for
which is included in the proposed project (para. 4.02).



- 9 -
3.16      Secondary school teachers are trained at the Lafole College of
Education. The College is part of the university and is under the control
of the MCHE. Originally operating a four-year course, of which one year
was spent in teaching practice, it now gives only a two-year course with
no teaching practice. Three of the present six science laboratories (origi-
nally elementary school science labs) lack equipment. Total enrollment is
about 1,000, with an effective annual output of around 450 teachers a year.
However, more recently output has dropped to about 275 teachers p.a. Students
are recruited from secondary school graduates who have completed national
service and also from among employed primary school teachers. The experience
of the latter group compensates to some extent for the lack of teaching
practice.
3.17      Science subjects account for one quarter of the secondary school
curriculum; yet half of the Lafole½s six laboratories are out of use due to
lack of supplies and the other three are far from satisfactory because of
damaged equipment. Consumable materials for the chemistry laboratory are
lacking and science is apparently taught in classrooms most of the time.
Thus the quality of graduate teachers has gradually deteriorated. There
is an urgent need to improve the quality of teaching and in addition to
develop the college on better administrative and organizational foundations,
assistance for which is included in the proposed project (para. 4.10).
3.18      Vocational, technical and commercial education.  Industrial training
is taught in four three-year and six four-year technical schools, together
enrolling about 3000 students (Annex 1, T-7). Additionally, there are six
vocational training institutions together enrolling 1,500 students, admin-
istered by various Government departments. Apart from a new vocational
training center in Mogadiscio, to be financed by the Federal Republic of
Germany (FRG), there are no clear plans for the development of industrial
training at the craftsman-technician levels. Due to a combination of poorly
equipped workshops and a shortage of good technical teachers, the quality
of training is generally below a desirable level. An exception to this
generalization is the vocational training institute at Burao, developed
with assistance from the FRG, where technical assistance in the form of a
well qualified team from Germany has developed an institute which sets a
standard for the rest of Somalia.
3.19      Despite the establishment of a National Commission for Technical
and Vocational Training, there is a lack of overall coordination of the
various technical and vocational institutes operated by several different
ministries. This lack of coordination contributes to the unplanned expansion
of vocational training, a position which is in urgent need of rectification
through the preparation of a well-coordinated plan for technical and vocational
training (para. 4.20).
3.20      Technical teacher training takes place at the Technical Teacher
Education College (TTEC) in Mogadiscio, which is receiving assistance from
Unesco and ILO. The college requires new premises, substantial re-equipment,
and improved management. The two-year courses, because of the sub-standard
condition of the workshops, are largely of a theoretical nature and do not



- 10 -
give the students the essential manual skill training required for teachers
of industrial subjects. The trainees receive no teaching practice during
the course. Technical teacher training at TTEC started in 1978, and the
first class of 180 students is scheduled to graduate in 1980. In view of
the Government's slow development of technical and vocatioi.d. education,
the graduate output is numerically adequate for the forseeable future.
An urgent need is to review this subsector and identify its training capacity
including methods for a more efficient and economic operation (para. 4.20).
3.21      Commercial and Business education and training are carried out
largely at the Somali Institute of Development Administration and Manage-
ment (SIDAM). Founded in 1965, it is under the control of the Ministry of
Labor and Sports and provides in-service training mainly to civil servants.
In 1980, the courses taught were (a) a six months course for primary school
leavers in typing and general office procedures in which 600 students were
enrolled; (b) a two-year course for secondary school leavers in accountancy
and management in which 66 students were enrolled; (c) a one-year course in
industrial management in which seven graduates in engineering were enrolled;
(d) a one-year rural development course for secondary school graduates with
long service in government rural development ministries; and (e) various
short courses, usually of 2-3 months' duration, in bookkeeping, storekeeping,
auditing, etc. Enrollments vary considerably.
3.22      The SIDAM's major problem in maintaining existing courses and plan-
ning needed new courses is to obtain and retain qualified teaching staff. The
present full-time establishment is seriously understrength, and SIDAM must
therefore rely heavily on part-time teachers. This is an undesirable state
of affairs which is likely to continue in view of the-attractive employment
opportunities available in the oil producing neighboring countries. In view
of the demand for commercially trained personnel and their important role in
Somalia's development, a comprehensive plan for the orderly development of
this educational sub-sector is urgently needed (paras. 4.16-4.19 and 4.20).
3.23      Higher education.  The National University established in 1956 as
an institution of higher education in economics and law, became in 1963 a
University Institute, providing the full range of requirements for the first
two years of study towards degrees in law, economics and political science.
The degrees were granted after two additional years of studies mostly in
Padua, Italy. In 1970, the National University was granted legal authority
to confer degrees. There are twelve faculties at present: Geology, Engineer-
ing, Medicine, Veterinary, Law, Economics, Commerce, Chemistry, Agriculture,
Journalism, Languages, and Education. Entrance is by competitive examination.
The medium of instruction is Italian and/or English, depending largely on the
staff. The 1979 enrollment was about 3,000 students.
The Nonformal Education System
3.24      The MOE's Department of Nonformal Education is responsible for
nonformal programs which include adult education and women's and community
training. In 1974-75 the Department conducted a mass literacy campaign, which
according to government figures, increased the literacy rate among adults from
5% to over 50%.



- 11 -
3.25      Adult education.  Some 850 centers provide adult nonformal education
to about 27,000 students. The basic three-year program is designed to be
functionally equivalent to full-time primary education. The IDA assisted
Third Education Project included the provision of seven regional centers as
resource centers to provide organization, supervision and materials distribu-
tion for the above adult learning groups.
3.26      A Government agency reporting directly to the Presidency operates
crash agricultural training programs on seven large scale farms with a total
cultivated area of about 20,000 hectares. The objective is to retrain un-
employed youth from urban and nomadic areas as farmers. The farms presently
have about 7,000 trainees including about 2,000 women with a training program
that normally lasts one year.
3.27      The IDA Second Education Project included provision for Nomadic
Training Centers (NTCs) and Community Education Centers (CECs) to help
serve the needs of nomads and relocated nomadic populations in agricultural
areas. These centers are expected to be completed by early 1981.
3.28      The MOE, with financial assistance from local authorities and the
Ministry of the Interior, operates 51 centers for women-s education, with
some 3,700 attending. The National Women's Center in Mogadiscio provides a
six-month course to train staff for these centers in crafts, home economics,
nutrition and child-care. The Center also trains home economics teachers
for primary schools. No assistance is provided in this proposed project
since it is being supported by other bi-lateral assistance.
3.29       Radio Education.  Somalia's radio transmitters now give 100%
coverage of the country. The Somali Broadcasting Service includes a number
of programs of general educational value on health and agriculture and
plans to build up adult education broadcasts designed for regular listeners.
As regards more systematic provision of non-formal education a one year pilot
project has just been completed which was monitored by UNICEF. About 83
villages were supplied with receiving sets and the National Adult Education
Center was responsible for collecting and interpreting feedback from the
broadcasts, which covered civics, health, animal husbandry and agriculture.
A total of 49 half hour programs were broadcast weekly (with a weekly repeat)
and the Center produced special books for use by the listeners. A report
on the project has been prepared by UNICEF which indicates the project is
successfully carrying out its objectives.
Financing Education Development
3.30         Recurrent Expenditure.  The MOE is responsible for financing
the major part of education and training. Funds for university education and
some specialized training are channelled.through the MCHE and certain other
ministries. Education in Somalia is generally provided free at all levels
and some training institutions provide a monthly allowance to students. The
major form of direct financial contribution to education is through self-help
construction of primary school classrooms by local communities.



- 12 -
3.31      The MOE's financial data do not provide a breakdown of expenditures
by level of education. However, unit recurrent costs are estimated at about
So.Sh. 287 for primary students, So.Sh. 1,230 for general secondary students
(plus So.Sh. 733 for boarders), So.Sh. 1,626 for vocational and technical
students, and about So.Sh. 6,500 for university students. These figures
compare favorably with those in other East African countries. The recurrent
cost per student in primary education is relatively low because a high
proportion of teachers are at the lower end of the salary scale. At the
secondary level, the unit cost for technical and vocational education is
about 30% higher than for general education because of higher teacher
salaries and the materials required and boarding. Due to the relatively
high unit costs of boarding, the Government intends to limit the number of
boarding students in general secondary schools and gradually to reduce the
percentage of students who are boarders from about 35% to 20%.
3.32      Between 1969 and 1974, the recurrent expenditures of the MOE and
the MCHE together were about 7% of the Central Government's total recurrent
expenditure in that period. As a result of the increased emphasis given to
the sector and the rapid total growth in enrollments since 1974, the percent-
age has been increasing rapidly, e.g., in 1977, education expenditures
reached 15.6% of the Government's recurrent expenses as compared to only
7.5% in 1973.
Recurrent Expenditures on Education 1973-1978
(So. Sh. Million)
1973     1975       1977       1978
1. MOE and MCHE                   28.9      73.9     120.8      150.1
Recurrent Expenditures
2. Total Government              382.0    566.2      770.0   1,353.0
Recurrent Expenditures
3. 1 as % of 2                     7.5      13.0      15.6       11.0
3.33      Between 1975 and 1978, recurrent expenditures in nominal terms
of the MOE and the MCHE have more than doubled. The share of these two
Ministries in the total Government ordinary expenditures (11.0% in 1978)
is still substantially lower than in most other East African countries.
Based on MOE staff projections of school enrollment to 1986, the MOE's
recurrent expenditure is estimated to grow at an average of 8% p.a. in real
terms while that of the MCHE is expected to increase at an average rate



- 13 -
of 10% p.a. Assuming that the Government's recurrent expenditures will grow
at 5% p.a. in real terms, the expenditure of both Ministries as a percentage
of the Government expenditure is expected to reach about 14% in 1986.
3.34      Capital Expenditures.  According to recent estimates, capital
expenditures under the FYDP amounted to So.Sh. 4.3 billion with So.Sh. 310
million allocated to the MCHE. Over the last four years, the MOE spent an
average of So.Sh. 29 million (US$4.5 million equivalent) in investment projects
in primary, secondary and technical/vocational education. The IDA Second and
the Third Education Projects were the principal externally assisted projects.
Total Government domestic development expenditures in education (MOE and MCHE)
fluctuated between 8.5% and 13.5% of total domestic development expenditures
as indicated below. In addition, contributions to capital formation as noted
previously are made by the population through self-help schemes.
PUBLIC DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE, 1974 - 1978
(So.Sh. million)
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978
1. Central Government (Domestic Services)  122.9   113.3   165.4   211.0   198.4
2. Ministry of Education                      16.6    13.4    18.0    16.8    16.8
3. Ministry of Higher Education                 1.1     0.5      1.4     1.8      1.8
4. (2) as % of (1)                             13.5    11.8    10.9      7.9      8.5
5. (2) + (3) as % of (1)                       14.4    12.3    11.7      8.8      9.4
3.35       Future Perspectives.  The present Government policy in Somalia
continues to give education high priority and it is likely that the share of
education in Central Government expenditures may regain the levels of 1976.
Recurrent expenditures are expected to grow steadily in future years because
of increased enrollments partially attributable to the facilities provided.
However, the level of future development expenditure will depend basically
on the availability of external assistance which is usually attached to new
development projects. Assuming that Government expenditures grow at about 5%
p.a. in real terms and that the share of education expenditures remains at
about 12% of the total, then total education expenditures should amount to
about So.Sh. 275 million in 1986 (Annex 1, T-8). This amount would permit
the expansion of the education system at the projected rates which would fall
within the Government's financing capacity (Annex 1, Table 8).



- 14 -
Role of the Bank in Somali Education
3.36      Past experience.  IDA assistance has been provided to three educa-
tion projects for Somalia. The first project (Credit 247-SO, signed June 3,
1971 for an amount of US$3.3 million and successfully completed September 30,
1976) was designed mainly to (a) improve the quality of technical education;
(b) diversify the curricula in general secondary schools; (c) increase the
enrollment capacities of secondary schools, two technical institutes and the
primary teacher training section of the Lafole College of Education and (d)
develop a local capacity for design and implementation of school facilities
(para. 3.39).
3.37      The second project (Credit 511-SO, signed September 19, 1974, for an
amount of US$8.0 million) assisted by (a) supporting the Government s policy
to promote basic education and reduce illiteracy by establishing an additional
primary teacher training college and an Academy of Somali Studies; (b) enabling
additional secondary schools to offer the diversified curricula introduced in
the first project; and (c) introducing Nomadic Training Centers. Implemen-
tation progress is now basically satisfactory; however, delays have occurred
due to, interalia, the recent war and the project is now expected to be
completed and fully disbursed by March 31, 1981, nine months beyond the
original June 30, 1980 Closing Date.
3.38      The third project (Credit 738-SO, signed September 30, 1977 for
an amount of US$8.0 million) gave major support to the first and second
education projects by expanding the State Printing Agency to ensure the timely
printing of an adequate supply of school textbooks and by reinforcing the
MOE's Curriculum Development Center. The project also includes (a) a new
Livestock and Forestry School; (b) a new Health Personnel Training Institute;
(c) a new School of Nursing and renovation to, and provision for equipment
and technical assistance for, the National Trade Testing and Training Center.
Finally, to provide a base for future planning, the project included pro-
vision for technical assistance for a manpower survey. Implementation
progress although slightly delayed, is basically satisfactory.
3.39      Lessons Learned.  A completion report was prepared in October
1976 to evaluate the first education project. It concluded that overall,
the project had been successful, especially with regard to the establishment
(institutional building) of new Project Implementation and School Design Units
which were progressively staffed with qualified Somalis as expatriate advisors
were phased out.  The report's main reservation was whether the diversified
curriculum introduced into several secondary schools by the project was
really an important educational objective.   The introduction of industrial
arts subjects into the schools had been less than successful because of
a lack of craft subject teachers and also because of student resistance
to such subjects at the expense of academic subjects, success in which is
apparently the key to advancing up the educational ladder. This problem
has continued in the general secondary schools being assisted in the second
education project to such an extent that the Government has abandoned, at



- 15 -
least temporarily, the teaching of industrial subjects. This approach is
acceptable to IDA. Therefore, the diversified curriculum is not included in
the new general secondary schools provided in this proposed project.
3.40      Future strategy.  The Government's strategy for primary education
is to attain UPE as quickly as resources will allow. In 1978-79, about 44%
of the estimated age group attended primary school; in view of the nomadic
nature of the population it is unlikely that even though attendance at
primary schools is compulsory, the Government will be able to enroll much
more than 60% of the total age group at any one time. Consequently, for
practical purposes, about 75% of the realistic target had been attained in
1978-79.
3.41      Rapidly increasing enrollments have occurred in general secondary
schools and the university, with the inevitable lowering of standards. The
Bank Group Assistance to the education and training sector has an important
role to play in helping to improve the quality of education, particularly
by encouraging improved teacher training and in directing investment in
education and training into those areas where skilled manpower shortages are
now evident at present, in the industrial, commercial, and allied sectors.
The Bank Group should continue to use its influence to convince the Government
to develop appropriate education and training facilities as part of comprehen-
sive and well executed plans. A Bank study is presently underway evaluating
the policy of diversified curriculum in secondary schools. The proposed
project also includes pre-investment and evaluation studies which would
provide technical assistance to help in reviewing training in the technical/
vocational and management/commercial subsectors (para. 4.20).
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The proposed project covers a five-year program (1981 to 1986).  It
is designed to improve the quality and efficiency of teaching in primary and
secondary schools by upgrading facilities for the pre-service and in-service
training of teachers and to provide more equitable opportunities for secondary
education to those rural areas devoid of secondary schools. Because of
Somalia's acute shortage of managers, accountants, office workers and related
skilled personnel, the project aims to alleviate this shortage by helping
to provide facilities and technical assistance for appropriate long-term
planning. Included is a study to assist the Government to develop a more
efficient civil service system.
Project Components
4.02      Primary teacher training resource centers (PTTRC's).  The component
would improve the quality of primary teachers through in-service training



- 16 -
opportunities at five existing general secondary schools. The introduction
of compulsory primary education during the seventies caused enrollments to
increase rapidly, which in turn resulted in a sacrifice of quality to the
demands for quantity in terms of primary teachers' pre-service training.
Until recently, teacher candidates (primary school graduates over 17 years of
age) received only a one year intensive course prior to teaching. Hence there
has been a growing stock of underqualified teachers. A variety of in-service
activities designed to improve teacher quality has been developed, including
radio programs, correspondence courses, summer courses, supervisory visits and
evaluation examinations. In addition, the pre-service course was once again
increased to two years in 1978.
4.03      To improve the impact of these services, the MOE presently plans
a three-pronged operation including:
(a)  Decentralization of in-service summer courses to
regional headquarters through the establishment of
resource centers at regional headquarters for the use
of primary school teachers to be used particularly
during the summer in-service training program; and
(b)  Linking all in-service supporting activities and also
the pre-service training program in order to offer an
articulated permanent program.
The component will include additional facilities (a teaching materials produc-
tion unit and storage), furniture and equipment to five existing secondary
schools in order to facilitate the above actions.
4.04      The in-service summer program developed by the Teacher Training
Section of the MOE's Department of Teacher Training and Curriculum is
directed by the Regional Education Offices, of which there are sixteen.
The five proposed resource centers would be established in selected secondary
schools outside the Mogadiscio area and would be supervised and controlled
by the primary/secondary school inspectors of the Regional Education Offices.
These centers would cover fourteen of the sixteen regions in the country
as follows: 1/
Sites of PTTRC's                      Regions covered
Baidoa                Bay, Bakool, Gedo
Burao                 Togdher, West Galbeed, Sanag, Bari, Nugal
Qoryolei              Lower Shabelli
Dusa Mareb            Galgadug, Mugug, Hiran
Kismayo               Lower Juba, Middle Juba
4.05      All primary school teachers may participate in the two-month
course. They are highly motivated to do so because attendance at the course
may lead to better qualifications, a higher salary, and the higher educational
level would facilitate a scholarship to the Lafole College of Education,
or possibly a teaching position in a secondary school.   The five selected
1/   Mogadiscio and Middle Shabelli are adequately provided.



- 17 -
schools have a combined total boarding capacity of 1,520 for the summer
courses, with availability of additional housing facilities in the towns
where they are located. Instructional facilities are available for a total
of 2,300 primary teachers. Because of the regions involved, a maximum of
about 1,520 teachers per year are expected to participate in the courses.
4.06      The instructors would be secondary school teachers of the regions
involved, assisted by staff of Regional Headquarters, of the MOE and of the
Halane Primary Teacher Training College. A teacher at each secondary school
will be assigned half-time to the library and audio-visual aid center for
the full year.
4.07      Incremental operating costs for the in-service training for teacher
upgrading are included in the proposed project which would cover, for a period
of five years: (a) payments to secondary school teachers and supporting staff
to compensate for additional duties in operating courses during normal vacation
periods; (b) a per diem for each course participant to cover transport and
subsistence; and (c) consumable materials for use on the courses. -
4.08      In order to maximize the effect of these upgrading courses at the
resource centers, the primary schools to which the course participants would
return would be provided with kits containing visual aids and simple science
teaching apparatus. Provision for kits included would enable primary schools
to receive one kit per 100 students (total about 3,000 kits).
4.09      Lafole College of Education.  The college is one of the twelve
faculties of the Somali National University, operated by the MCHE. As
described in (para. 3.16), it is Somalia's only secondary teacher training
college. Incorporated in the college is a textbook production center which
is the only source of Somali language textbooks for college students.
4.10      The college was assisted under the First IDA Education Project
at which time its courses were geared to training teachers for the eight-year
elementary-intermediate cycles of education. In the interim, the function
of the college has been changed to teacher training for general secondary
schools with the training of teachers for the first eight primary grades
relocated to the Halane Primary Teacher Training College in Mogadiscio. To
enable it to carry out its new function, the college needs science and visual
aids equipment as well as some refurbishing and reequipping of laboratories
and classrooms, all of which is included in the proposed project. The project
would also assist the textbook production center in acquiring printing
machinery and paper.
4.11      Due to the rapid increase in enrollments in general secondary schools
(from 4,900 to 11,000 in the seven year period 1972-1978), the training of
teachers was cut from four to two years, and enrollments at Lafole increased
correspondingly. At appraisal, enrollments were about 1,000 (all boarding)
with an output of about 450 p.a. However in 1979/80 the output dropped to
about 275 p.a. In this respect, an annual output of 150 graduates is esti-
mated to be ample to meet the needs (Annex 1, T-6). Therefore, the Government
has agreed that the intake will be gradually reduced in order to stabilize
output at about 150 p.a.



- 18 -
4.12       Quality improvement is necessary.  The present two-year intensive
course is particularly deficient in two respects, i.e., science teaching
and student teaching practice. Consideration should be given to alleviating
these weaknesses by increasing the program to a three-year course, which
would allow more time both for science courses and for practical teaching.
The Government has given an assurance that the course will be increased to
three years for the academic year starting in 1983/84, that practice teaching
will be included in the curriculum, and intake will be reduced to prevent an
oversupply of secondary teachers.
4.13       Quantitatively the college has adequate teaching staff:  there are
37 expatriate and 44 Somali staff of whom 18 are overseas on study leave; on
their return they would replace some of the expatriate staff. Nevertheless,
to complete the reorganization of the college for secondary teacher training,
technical assistance specialists are required to assist and advise the Dean in
the operation of the various sections of the college. Consequently, provision
for two man-years of specialists services has been included in the project so
that four persons each for six months could be appointed to advise the Dean
on: (a) administration, general management, and associated academic matters;
(b) organization of maintenance for the college; and (c) catering arrange-
ments for boarding students. This survey would be carried out not later than
January 1982.
4.14       General Secondary Schools.  The proposed project includes provisions
for the construction of four new and additions to ten existing general secon-
dary schools. These additions would provide more equitable opportunities for
secondary education in remote rural areas. Two of the four new schools would
be two-stream, each with an enrollment of 288 students and two would have
one-stream enrolling 144 students. They would be sited at settlements which
have been developed following the 1975 drought and in catchment areas where
no secondary schools exist. The 1980 output from primary schools in the
settlements varies from 500 to 2,500, with an average of 1,300 per settlement.
The four new schools would accordingly enable about only 17% on average of
primary school leavers in the four settlements an opportunity to continue on
to secondary level education.
4.15       The ten existing general secondary schools have been built during
the last four years by community effort with Government aid and supervision.
The general quality of construction and furniture is good, but equipment
and library books are almost non-existent and some schools need additional
science laboratories and furniture which is included in the proposed project.
The enrollment capacity of these ten schools is 3,312 students. Since a major
expansion of the general secondary system ought to proceed with caution (para.
3.03), the Government, has agreed to address this problem and to relate growth
in the general secondary school system in accordance with its ability to
finance such expansion and expand only based upon identified manpower needs
(paras. 2.10 and 3.03).
4.16       The Somali Institute of Development Administration and Management
(SIDAM) provides training in clerical and secretarial skills, accounting,



- 19 -
management and administration mainly for public sector employees. Because
of emigration of its teaching staff to the oil-exporting Gulf States the
Institute suffers from a serious shortage of experienced full-time staff and
is having to rely on part-time teachers drawn mainly from thc public sector.
The general organization of the Institute and its efficient operation have
also been adversely affected by this condition with the ironic result that
an Institute which exists to teach managerial and administrative skills is
unable to organize its own affairs satisfactorily.
4.17      In view of the importance to Somalia of the type of training given
at the Institute, 20 man-years of technical assistance have been included
in the proposed project in order to provide the core of experienced teachers
and commercial administrative educators necessary to optimize the Institute's
efficiency. It is envisaged that a contract for the recruitment and adminis-
tration of technical assistance specialists be awarded to a reputable single
institute or commercial college which would have overall responsibility for
providing suitable personnel appropriate to the institute-s needs. The
institute or college selected for this task would initially carry out a survey
at SIDAM to determine the most appropriate type of expertise required to
provide maximum assistance and to prepare a time schedule of their operations
in Somalia. The Government has agreed to appoint an institute or college for
this task by not later than March 31, 1982 (paras. 3.22 and 4.21).
4.18      Present indications are that the SIDAM will require technical
assistance of the type included in the proposed project for many years or
until such a time as a sufficient number of Somalis have been trained in
commercial subjects to meet the emigration drain and also to provide for
the needs of the SIDAM. It is therefore envisaged that technical assistance
on a team basis would have to continue beyond the completion of this proposed
project. The survey to be carried out would include recommendation for
further technical assistance for possible inclusion in future projects for
SIDAM.
4.19      The buildings occupied by SIDAM are satisfactory and have recently
been extended with the assistance of USAID. There are some deficiencies in
commercial and office equipment, the provision for which, has been included
in the proposed project.
4.20      Pre-Investment, Evaluation and Civil Service Employment Studies.
Technical and vocational as well as management and commercial education all
need developing to meet the country-s need for this type of skilled manpower.
The proposed project therefore, includes provision for technical assistance
to help in preparing the necessary plans. A two-man team would be required
for six months to prepare a technical/vocational plan and a two-man team for
three months for the management/commercial plan. Each team would comprise an
education planner and a specialist in the particular discipline being planned.
Each team would review and evaluate relevant training already being offered
in Somalia, and in the light of projected skilled manpower needs (para. 2.07),
would prepare a development plan with related overall capital and recurrent
costs and would also identify particular items for early development (paras.
3.02, 3.21, and 3.22).



- 20 -
4.21      The IDA assisted Second Education Project included provision for ten
Nomadic Training Centers (NTCs) which were experimental institutions of two
types, the first group of five directed towards nomads in remote areas, the
second to nomads in partially settled areas. The emergency created by the
1975 drought and its aftermath forced the Government to establish settlements
for nomads who had lost their cattle. Consequently, three of the NTCs, by
mutual agreement between the Government and the Association, were replaced by
Community Education Centers (CECs) at each of three settlements. An in-depth
evaluation of the NTCs and CECs would be carried out and financing is included
as a part of this proposed project. Technical assistance in the form of a
three-man team for four months would be required to assist the Government in
this evaluation. The team would comprise a non-formal educator, an agricul-
tural educator, and an architect. These specialists would be employed with
qualifications, experience, and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
4.22      As discussed in (para. 2.09) there is an urgent need for a thorough
overhaul of public employment and personnel policies (civil service employment)
in Somalia. To assist the Government to design an efficient system, the
proposed project includes a study for the development of a program for public
employment. The study would review the present system, investigate its
shortcomings, and make recommendations for improvements in organizational
structure and in recruitment, deployment, promotion and remuneration of the
public servants. One or more international experts would be recruited for
about eighteen man-months to prepare the study. The terms of reference would
be acceptable to the Association. The Government has given assurances that
the study will be completed by not later than December 31, 1982 and that it
will consult the Association on the findings and recommendations of the study
with a view to implementing a mutually agreed program to improve public
employment (para. 8.01 (e)).
Technical Assistance Summary
4.23      Included in the project are about 2 man years of technical assistance
for the Lafole College of Education (para. 4.13); 20 man-years of specialist
services for SIDAM (para. 4.17) and about 42 man months for preinvestment,
evaluation and Civil Service Employment studies (para. 4.20). About 42 man-
months of technical assistance for a civil engineer for project administration
is also included (para. 6.04). Technical assistance specialists would be
selected in consultation with the Association and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.  The cost of technical assistance specialists
has been calculated on an average of US$77,000 per man-year.
Female Participation in the Education System and Project                                   -
4.24      Female participation in the formal education system in 1978 was
as follows: at the primary level (grade 1-6), females represented about
36% of the total enrollment, at secondary level (grades 7-10), 24% and at
the university level, 16% (Annex 1-C). The proposed project would provide
new secondary schools in remote areas where none now exist and where the
proportion of males to females is biased in favor of the latter. Men appear
to be returning to their nomadic life, but women appear to be choosing to
remain in the settlement areas. Therefore, it is expected that women would
have increased access to general secondary school places specifically in the



- 21 -
resettlement areas where the four new secondary schools would be located. The
project will have an especially strong equity impact for women in the lower
Shabelli region according to the table of Representation Indices 1/; without
the project the R.I. was only 14% of the proportional share of places whereas
after the project it will have about 75% of its proper share.
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost
5.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$13.0 million
equivalent, including customs duties and taxes estimated at about US$0.3
million equivalent. The estimated costs and foreign exchange components
as given in Annex 1, T-9, are summarized as follows:
Estimated Cost by Project Item
% of
Shilling (Millions)        US$ (Millions)        Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Cost
1. Civil Works, Furniture,
Equipment & Vehicles
a. Primary Teacher Training
Resource Centers                       1.6      8.5      10.1    0.3      1.3      1.6    17
b. Lafole College
of Education                           0.7      2.6       3.3    0.1      0.4      0.5      5
c. General Secondary Schools              6.7    13.0       19.7    1.1      2.0      3.1    34
d. Somali Institute of Development
Administration & Management            0.1      1.1       1.2      -      0.2      0.2      2
e. Project Unit Warehouse                 0.3      0.3       0.6      -       0.1     0.1      1
Sub-total (1)                      9.4    25.5      34.9    1.5       4.0      5.5    59
2. Technical Assistance                       1.4    12.8      14.2    0.2       2.1      2.3    25
3. In-Service Training                        4.4     3.0       7.4    0.7       0.5      1.2    13
4. Project Administration                     1.2     0.8       2.0    0.2       0.1      0.3     3
Total Base Cost (1-4)             16.4    42.1      58.5    2.6       6.7      9.3   100
(October 1980)
5. Contingencies
a. Physical (6%)                          1.2      2.7       3.9    0.2      0.4      0.6
b. Price Increase (31%)                   6.1    13.4       19.5    0.1       2.1     3.1
Sub-total (5)                      7.3    16.1      23.4    1.2       2.5      3.7
Total Project Cost (1-5)          23.9    58.0      81.9    3.8       9.2    13.0
of which taxes                     2.0     -         2.0    0.3        -       0.3
1/   RI =  District or group percent of national enrollment
-           District or group of total school age population



- 22 -
5.02     Cost Estimates.  Cost for civil works, furniture, equipment and
vehicles have been derived from reviews carried out by the Unesco preparation
mission and by Bank Group Staff, and are based on quotations received in
IDA Second and Third Education Projects and other similar Government projects.
The schedules of accommodation for the proposed institutions are functional,
and the furniture and equipment would be relevant for the country's needs in
accomplishing the educational objectives of the project. The average building
cost per square meter for general secondary schools (October 1980) is about
US$225 equivalent in the proximity of Mogadiscio as compared to about US$275
for schools in the remote areas. This is reasonable in comparison with
similar institutions in other Eastern African countries.
5.03     Customs Duties and Taxes.  All items specifically imported for the
project would be exempt from customs duties and taxes in line with the prac-
tice of the Government to grant exemption to imports for educational purposes.
However, the National Agency for Building Materials has a monopoly on the
importation of building materials and pays import duties and taxes, which will
be included in the prices paid by contractors on material directly purchased
from the Agency. Following a recent relaxation of this policy, the Government
has agreed to grant permission to the Project Unit to bulk import certain
building materials directly through ICB, thus reducing the incidence of taxes
and this also would expedite implementation. Of the total estimated costs,
about US$0.3 million would represent customs duties and/or taxes.
5.04     Contingency Allowances.  For physical contingencies, 10% has been
added to the base cost of civil works and 5% to the base costs of all other
project components. Price increases from the base cost date (October 1980)
have been applied in accordance with the implementation schedule shown in
Annex 1, T-10 at the following rates:
1981     1982      1983-85      1986-87
Foreign                           9%       8%         7%           6%
Local                            25%      25%        20%          15%
Price increases are based on estimated annual increases past experience, and
as projected by Bank Group staff.
5.05     Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component has been
calculated as follows: (a) civil works, 52%; (b) furniture, 80%; (c) equip-
ment, vehicles, and technical assistance, 90%; (d) in-service training, and
project administration, 40%. The foreign exchange component including
contingencies is estimated at US$9.2 million equivalent, or 72% of the total
project cost excluding customs duties and taxes. This high foreign exchange
component reflects the project-s emphasis on the provision of furniture,
equipment (which is mostly imported), and technical assistance which together
account for about 60% of the total base cost. The foreign exchange component
for civil works is also somewhat high due to the cost of imported mate-
rials in comparison with the low cost of local inputs (mainly bricks, aggre-
gates and labor). Somalia is presently a net importer of cement; however, a



- 23 -
cement and asbestos factory are under construction which, if completed early
in the implementation period, could possibly reduce the above foreign exchange
component of civil works.
5.06     Financial Plan.  The financial plan provides for an IDA credit
of US$10.2 million equivalent, or 80% of the project cost net of taxes,
as follows:
Category                                  US$ million equivalent
Government   Credit   Total
1.  Civil Works                                0.94         1.40    2.34
2.  Furniture, Equipment and Vehicles          0.10         3.10    3.20
3.  Technical Assistance                       0.05         2.20    2.25
4.  In-Service Training                        0.58         0.59    1.17
5.  Project Administration                     0.17         0.16    0.33
6.  Unallocated                                0.96         2.75    3.71
Total                           2.80       10.20   13.00
of which taxes                 0.30          -       0.30
5.07     Capital and Recurrent Expenditures.  The Government's total
contribution of So.Sh. 17.6 million spread over a period of six years with
a maximum contribution of So.Sh. 3.5 million (including So.Sh. 0.3 million
of local taxes), appears to be within its financial capacity in the light
of past and projected capital expenditures for education (para. 3.34).
The recurrent costs generated by the proposed project are estimated at about
US$1.0 million equivalent p.a., in 1980 prices, or about 3% of the estimated
total recurrent cost of education in 1986.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
Implementation
6.01      The proposed project would be implemented in about six years,
including six months for finalization of accounts and withdrawal (Annex 1,
T-10). Project completion is expected by September 30, 1986 with a Closing
Date of March 31, 1987. The implementation schedule is based upon experience
derived from the previous three IDA education projects.
6.02      Administration.  The MOE's Project and School Design Units (PIU)
established for the implementation of the First, Second and Third IDA assisted
Education Projects would be responsible for the implementation and the finan-
cial and administrative control of the proposed project, including liaison
with other government agencies and with the Association. The Units would
also be responsible for coordination with the Ministry of Labor and Sports,
which is involved in the project. Any appointments to the position of
project director and architect would be employed on terms and conditions
including qualifications and experience satisfactory to Association. Local



- 24 -
staff salaries and allowances and the Units' other operational expenses would
be financed under the proposed project. Included in the project is a modest
warehouse which will enable the PIU to effectively store, sort, and dispatch
imported construction material, furniture and equipment.
6.03      Reporting and Evaluation.  Quarterly reports on implementation
progress would be submitted by the PIU to the Association for review within
one month after each period. Not later than six months after the Credit
Closing Date, the PIU with assistance from all Government agencies involved,
would provide to the Association a report evaluating the execution, initial
operations, and costs and benefits of the proposed project, the performance
of the Government and the Bank Group and lessons learned during project
implementation.
6.04      Design Services (Architectural/Engineering).  The Project and School
Design Units would be responsible for the design and supervision of construc-
tion of all project institutions. Drawings and designs are reviewed by the
Somali Engineering Consultants Agency, which is a branch of the Ministry
of Public Works (MPW). Standard plans and construction documents developed
for the First, Second and Third IDA Education Projects would be utilized to
the maximum extent possible. The strength of the PIU professional staff,
which is being augmented with four site supervisors, is adequate to implement
the proposed project. The present architect, seconded from the MPW, would
continue his assignment during the implementation of the proposed project.
The project would include 42 man-months of technical assistance for a civil
engineer for project administration.
6.05      Site Selection.  Satisfactory sites have been selected for the four
new secondary schools and adequate land is available at the existing secondary
schools for the various extensions proposed. All land is Government-owned
and would be provided at no cost to the project.
6.06      Building Industry.  The construction industry consists of about 50
private construction firms which have been approved to compete for Government
contracts. Some 40 of them are located in Mogadiscio. Government buildings
are sometimes built by the MPWs departmental forces and each region has such
departmental forces which assist local self-help schemes. Formed in 1975, the
Somali Construction Agency, a branch of the MPW, operates in Mogadiscio and
Hargeisa and is responsible for the construction of Government buildings, but
does not take part in competitive bidding for contracts against private firms.
There are no foreign contracting firms in Somalia, and from past experience
with the three previous IDA assisted Education Projects, it is unlikely that
foreign firms would bid for the construction work due to the small size and
remote location of most of the work included.
Procurement
6.07      Contracts for civil works, construction materials, furniture,
equipment and vehicles totalling about US$8.0 million equivalent including
contingencies would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines for procurement,



- 25 -
except as follows:  (a) civil works contracts estimated to cost less than
US$250,000 equivalent each; (b) furniture, equipment, vehicles and construc-
tion material contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; and
(c) local transportation services for furniture and equipment. These items
(a, b, and c) would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with local procedures acceptable to the Association.
The aggregate value of these contracts is estimated at about US$1.2 million
equivalent, including contingencies. Due to the remote locations of some of
the secondary schools to be expanded and to the small-size of the proposed
expansions, private contractors are expected to be only partially interested
and consequently the most economic and efficient method of construction is
likely to be by the regional departmental forces, using self-help and follow-
ing established methods used in previous IDA Education Projects, which are
satisfactory.
6.08      Sketch designs, draft tender documents, and master lists of imported
building materials, furniture, equipment and vehicles indicating proposed
grouping and cost estimates, would be reviewed by the Association. Items
would be grouped to the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding
and to permit bulk procurement. Review of tender evaluation documents prior
to award would be required only for contracts above US$250,000 equivalent
each for civil works and US$50,000 equivalent each for imported building
materials, furniture, equipment, vehicles and transportation.
6.09      Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed
a preference of 15% or the existing rate of import duties, whichever is lower,
over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers. When ICB is used,
qualified domestic civil works contractors would be allowed a preferential
margin of 7.5% over bid prices of competing foreign contractors.
Disbursements
6.10      Disbursements (Annex 1, T-ll) would be made on the basis of:  (a)
100% of foreign expenditures or 60% of local expenditures for civil works;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures or 80% of local expenditures for furniture,
equipment, vehicles and local transport services; (c) 100% of foreign or 80%
of local expenditures for technical assistance; and (d) 50% of the total cost
of in-service training and project administration.
6.11      All disbursements would be fully documented except for local expendi-
tures for: (a) civil works by force account; (b) project administration; (c)
in-service training; and (d) local transportation of furniture and equipment
to school sites. Disbursements for these items would be made against state-
ments of expenditure documentation for which would not be submitted for
review, but would be retained by the Borrower and available for inspection by
the Association during project supervision. The Government would provide,
before the beginning of each Somali fiscal year, a work program and budget,
satisfactory to the Association for work to be carried out by force account
methods, for project administration, the in-service primary teacher training
program and for local transportation for furniture and equipment. Based upon
experience in previous education projects, the Unit has satisfactory institu-
tional capacity to use the statement-of-expenditure procedure.



- 26 -
6.12      Auditing would be required on an annual basis for all expenditures
financed under this project and, in particular, for work carried out by
departmental forces (force account), operational expenses for project admini-
stration and in-service training, and local transportation of furniture
and equipment to school sites. Auditing would be performed by auditors
acceptable to the Association, applying satisfactory auditing procedures.
Audit reports would have to be submitted to the Association within 6 months
following the end of each of the Borrower's fiscal years.
VII. BENEFlTS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01      The principal benefit of the proposed project is expected to be
an improvement in the training (and therefore the quality) of primary and
secondary teacher training. Enrollment increases in primary schools (from
77,000 in 1972/73 to 264,000 in 1978/79) and in general secondary schools
(from 7,700 to 11,000 during the same period) resulted in a substantially
increased demand for teachers. This demand was met by reducing the length of
primary teacher training from two years to one year and by reducing that of
secondary-teacher training from four to two years (paras. 3.15 and 3.16), with
an accompanying decline in the quality of the teachers produced. The training
course for primary school teachers has recently been reinstated to two years,
and Government will extend the secondary teacher training course from two to
three years for quality improvement starting in the academic year 1983/1984
(para. 4.12). Nevertheless, the teachers trained in the shorter courses need
a substantial amount of qualitative upgrading.
7.02      The five resource centers included in the project would substantially
improve the teaching ability of such undertrained teachers 1/ in elementary
science and in the use of teaching aids. To support the upgrading courses,
the regional centers would issue science/visual aid kits to those schools whose
teachers attend the upgrading courses. Finally, the devolution of in-service
training to regional centers (a part of the gradual process of decentralizing
control of the educational system) would make education more responsive to
local needs and should improve its relevance (para. 4.04).
7.03      The Lafole College of Education, where all secondary teacher training
takes place, was initially developed for primary teacher training, and its
facilities were appropriately designed for that purpose.  In the interim, the
facilities have deteriorated, and much of the equipment is unsuitable for the
college's present function. The equipment and furniture to be provided under
the proposed project would support a much improved standard of secondary
teacher training (para. 4.10).
1/   Of the primary teacher force of about 8,100 teachers, over 6,000 have
received only one year of teacher training and require upgrading courses.



- 27 -
7.04      The proposed project's assistance to ten existing general secondary
schools would enable these schools to teach the basics of biological and
physical sciences, thus preparing students for continued education in fields
where there is an identified shortage of skilled manpower. The four new
general secondary schools, each to be in a settlement where such schools do
not now exist, would help alleviate inequality in educational opportunities in
the rural areas and help school leavers find employment, profit from community
life, and benefit from the organized infrastructure including educational
facilities, health care, and a generally improved standard of living (para.
4.14).
7.05      The proposed assistance to the Somali Institute of Development
Administration and Management would enable the Institute's courses to be
operated with greatly improved efficiency and should result in an output of
well-trained personnel in the areas of management, administration, and general
office skills areas in which Somalia is currently experiencing a critical
shortage (para. 4.16).
7.06      The country is also short of skilled personnel in the industrial
sector, particularly craftsmen and technicians. The development of training
facilities in Somalia needs efficient planning to insure interalia, that
expansions and improvements of training facilities would be in line with
projected manpower requirements. The technical assistance provided in the
project would help prepare a long-range plan which could serve as a basis for
future projects. Similarly, the project would provide technical assistance to
prepare a plan for the development of managerial/administrative/education and
training in line with the long range requirements of skilled manpower in this
area (para. 4.20).
7.07      There is no major risk however, the possibility that rising educa-
tional recurrent costs, caused by rapidly increasing primary and secondary
school enrollments, may place the Government under such a financial strain
that it will be unable to maintain quality standards. The Government has
confirmed that it would maintain the policy of relating enrollments in
the general secondary school system to estimated manpower needs and financial
capacity (paras. 4.15) and to maintain the current student teacher ratio of
about 24:1 (paras. 3.11). As regards recurrent costs, the project is designed
to keep recurrent expenditures resulting from the project to a minimum (para.
5.07).
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The Government has given assurances on the following principal
points:
(a) The current student/teacher ratio of about 24:1 in general
secondary schools would be maintained (para. 3.11).



28 -
(b) The length of the secondary teacher training course at the
Lafole College of Education would be increased from its
present two years to three years starting in 1983/84, that
more science and practice teaching should be included in
the curriculum and that intake will be gradually reduced
in order to stabilize the output at about 150 teachers
p.a. (paras. 4.11 and 4.12).
(c) Expansion of enrollments in general secondary schools
would be related to the Government's financial capacity
and manpower needs (para. 4.15).
(d) For development of the SIDAM, an agreement would be made not
later than March 31, 1982 with an appropriately experienced
institute or college acceptable to the Association to supply
on a team basis the technical assistance included in the
proposed project. The selection including terms and condi-
tions would be subject to review by the Association (para.
4.17).
(e)  That the civil service study will be carried out by not later
than December 31, 1982, under terms of reference acceptable
to the Association and that the Association will be consulted
on the findings and recommendations of the civil service
employment study with a view to implementing a mutually
agreed program to improve public employment (para. 4.20).
8.02      Subject to the above assurances, the proposed project provides
a suitable base for a Development Credit of US$10.2 million to the Somali
Democratic Republic on standard IDA terms.



29 -
CDMPARATIVE  EDUCATION  INDICATORS                                                                    ANNLX  I
........ Izza-4.2- -m ...x.... a.
SEPTEMBER 9, 1980
..* ............. M.
....................................................................................................................................
I            3            I                    I            t          I             t        I               I              I          I        I          I
GNP/  IX  GNP    iX  TOTAL:%    (IF  PUBLIC  I                                 I             sPRI.  :AV.PRI.    i                    a          $$EC    I           t
I         KAPITA OlVilTE09PUBLIC  3 Ef)UCATION                      ILITLR-  IPRI.  tCnMPLE-  :8TU-  :SCH,TLACH1PNUGRL33-t SEC.  ISTU-  OH16HERI
I         :    Al    ITn  End.1    EXP.  I RFCURRLNT                 tACY         IENROLL:TION            IDENTS:SALARY  INJIUN  RATE  ILNROLLIDENTSIENROLLI
I         ImAiiAP71  tpUHl,1CiDEv0TEDjEX.  ALLOCATEDi    RATE  IRATIO  IRATE  FORIPLR    3WELATIUN  IFRUM  PRI.SRATIO  $PER    9RATIO  I
IPUP.  SPRICEbt EtP.               t    TO      I        TUI         I(X  OF   I NET    SPRI.SCH.ITEACHI  TO  GNP/  ITU  9C.    : NET   ITEACH-  GRUSS3
YRIMILLS,;  WW I ONLY)    t    EDU.  IPRT. SEC. ml.tAOULTS)i  (%)   ICYCLEM IEN                                        t CAPITA   i    W              g  m       tkp      I  M
CS)      2    f4)                          1  (b)      1(7)   :    (a)          I  (q)                      (11)                             M at
-------------------- R----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ADVANCED
';T  t                                            53y       8.SEY   24Y   Sly   ISY             99         98          93D          ebt)        2.0D                       SI r)      I 9L)    16.8by
;U    R  A           74      7,1G b,b,!oG                                                                                                                       99)
CANADA               75    ee.b   7,iSb             7.3       lb.7        3o      37     26       98         99           97          19           2.0           qq          90         18        16.00
GERMANY  F.REP.75    61.8   -,b7O                   9.0      10.2         SIFY 64--  26EY   99               90           99          23tY         ...           qgy         84Y        22C      20,06y
JAPAN                75  111,   4,OSO              4.3E   ZO.IE          4olly  37uy  Ituy   99             991)         T19C        2s           2.oB          99C         qsxy       20C      24.69Y
NETHERLANDS          TS   1-$.1   5,4d5             9,4      22.4D        21      39     s       99         95           99          2q           2.U           97          80         20        12.0t
Nfw  ZEALAND         73      J.16  4,2uot,          5.2      ...          39     24      29       99         qq           q9          26           ...          99           67         19       24.OC
NOR WAY              lb      4.4   b,0143           7.2      14.4        iu      24      1 s      99         99           99          16           1.5          99E          b2         11       11.00
SWEDFN               7 b     6.2   a, iso           8.8      14.0         23     29      12       99         99           qq          16           ...           90?         85C        13       30.00C
U.K.                 75   SO.U   S,760              T.I      13.4         26     41      18       99         99           ...         24          2.0            ...         68         17       21,OOX
U.S.A.               70  at-.b   7,9SO              5 . 4    1S.d                7 2-   28        99E        99           qq          217          . . .        gq           93         ig       2 4 . 0 o
EUROPE.
7t     9 . I e,s9o            2  1,    I 0 . 4      37      26      21       8ba        99          92t)         31         2 . o          70E          bu        27        IS.00
[RFLAND              74      5. I G,bRoG           S . I    1 3.9n      43Y   41Y   14Y          98        108xy        1?9A         3"         . . .          q5A          b11wY      19       15,47Y
PORTUGAL             77      V.7   1,M50            3.b       15.1        41     21      15       7OG          82         60.         19         2",             75.         35         12         S,QO
ROMANIA              7b   21.e   1,24V              4.0        b,4        36      19     13       96         joix         ...         21         ...            q6           ag         22       IO.Q
3PAIN                74   35.bG  2,Qqo(,            ?,OH   15.2A          49Y   22Y   ihy         94A       115xy         . . .       35 A       . . .                       76xy       3U        17.6ay
AFRICA
;,,'Rl';            79   1 6 , 5 1 , 26o           7 , 1    24 . 7?      3UK    e t, K 21K       35H        94XK         4SK?        37K         O . 0         5 2 K 't     3 3K ?     37K        5,OUKX
REMIN                7 4     J. 4G      I 8 0      7 , 2    36 . 0 y    4 M    2 3u   1 nf)      I I D     44XY         70b         b IY       25 . 'b        43d          I I x y    39b        0.74Y
40YSANA             76      u , 0      oe o           4     1q.0         48     39      1 3      35         80           7 n         3 1         9 . o         5Q           2u         22         I su
RURUNOI              78      4 . I      1 30 ,      2 1 7    22. 1 P      4bR   33R   2IR         25         3X          45          32          9 . 0         22             3x       lb         0 , 5
CA-ERI)CIN           7h      1 . 7      3 1 4       3. 7     2 1 . 5      13     4 3     20        . . .     60           4.5         52         4 . 0           20            9D       24         0.9ucy
C.A.R.               7,      J.b       ?20         3. OD   1 7 . OL,    5bR   19d   . . .         . . .     79XY         25          b9Y        . . .           1 6           8yy      1! 78 y    a I 21 y
'HAD                 7b      ..u        ieo         3,0      IO,O        78      22   ...          15        29xby        30          b5HY       ks.0             8           2xby   30            0,018Y
CNrO ( 11 I         7 a     I . p     510         h.m      I 9 . 3      40     32      2 1      50?       133X          6 3         6 3         0 . 0          4#3         33X        22         3. 4u
EGYPT                7    1- . 7       -o         5.S        . . .      40      35     2.        44G       7 3          H 0         30?          . . .         8          a q        1 7 7      1 5 . 0 0
FTHIOPTA             7 7   R9 . V       I t 0       2 . 4     1 2 . 5     au      31      1 a      I 0       26           . . .       5o           . . .        o 3            b        38         . . .
GAgnN                7 a     01  8,54OF            ', , 01)   20 . bi)    25r,    qu   I 11)      . . .    IOOY          25C         ac         , . r,        18A         3ty        11 I       O.Zgy
GAMBTA               7 t     .h        1 7 u       3. 3     I I . 5      4 0    es        b       I 0       27           q n         33         . . .          92           1 3        2 5         I 11
GHANA                7 4     9.v       bgoF        ...      I - . I y    43Y   22Y   20 Y 0   . . .         buxy         0          30Y        . . .           1 48        35 k y     IOCY       I'09Y
GOTNEA               7 6     4 , I      lmop        3 . 3NO  . . .        so      3i     30        1 . .     sox          6 4         45         t 2 . o         86           13X       26         O.00
TVnRY COAST          7      1 .        t I 0       6 , A    2 3 . 1      33     4b      1 3        9 A      so          8 b          a 3         7 . o         4 7          17xY       2 b        I b4Y
KENYA                7 .   1 6,         24 0           9     2.. 0        b7     2 3     1 0      4 0        8 0 ?        607         3 O         6 , "          s 0         1 6        I? 7       1 0
L E SO THII          7 5     1 . e      I.U            nP   2 3. 0        ag      I 8    20        a 0       as           50          52           7  o          8 I         I 0        26         1 n u
L I RF R I A         77      1 . 7      - 3 o       3. 1     I 2. 9       2 3     1 3    2o        30        5 I x        . . .         4                        7b          24W        1 6
MADAGASCAR                              2 4 0       4 , 0    24 , 0      53      28      19       -50        90           33          a4          6 . 0          3F          1 4        2 3        1
MALAWI               7 7     5 , 0      1 4 0       2 . 2      9 . 3     40      1 7     22       25         5bX          2 1         W I         " . c           9           5x        2 1        0 47
MkL 1                75    ',. 7F        qo        4,2v   3. 5F         45F   37   16F          IOF       22XF                     48        4.,3          5OF            by       2 1
MAtiRITANIA          7 1     1 . F     3eo        4 . I Y   eo , OY                                                                 22A                        .;O           3xy      24A
BOC                    9           24
MAURITIUS            7 6     V.9L       b6o         4 . 7    1 2 . I                                         q41                                                             45         u
MOROCCO              7b   lb.,          5eo         6  3      1 ; .,e    3qp   qoq   13R          2b        66k          35          3q              0 r,       4,1         2ox        2 1        4 . 00
NIGER                7 7     4 . 9      Ibc         2  8,4   12.20        52     4 3       5        8         1 7         5 0         39         I " . "          35           2        2 4        . . .
NIGERIA              7 4   7 t, . V F   34of        O  I L) Y  2 4 , 2D Y   3Y   16Y   42Y        . . .     49xy         . . .       34tY         . . .         . . .       lowy       20cy       0 . 4a Y
R WA NOA             7 3    a . I      LOOF       .1. 2c   2 8 . UL)    . . .    . . .   . . .    2 -4      5 2          . . .       S 1                                      2        1 3        0  23CY
ENEGAL                                4io          5.0      2 3. 0      46      34      20       10         32          . . .        au         Io 77  5.e                   0         21 
SIERRA  LEGNE   7 S          S. F      PCOF        3, 4     2 3. 4       31      36     30        It,?      Su x         45          3 2          . . , f      68           13K                   0,53BY
SOMALIA              7 H     q . u      1 85        2.o       I I . 0     55      I 0     I      5 0        4 4        . . .         3 2          4 . 0         410           5        1 5        1 . 00
3 u f) A N           7 o   lb.9         29 0        a. 5      iq.q        4 8     3 b     I t,     2 0       3 4          7 4         3 3          3. b          3 3         1 4        a 4          I . 24
SWAZILAND            78      u , 1     560         b.IH   1 2 . 2        37      33     23       b5         92X          4.          37           4,OH          66          32X        20          2,OOX
TANZANTA             78   11.1          ?30         6.8N   15.8           43      19     to       bbG        96           87          58           3.0            q            4        eou        0.38
TOGO                 77      '! . 4     3 0 0       5.5      2h.5         30     28      2 1       1 8       74           40          58          ..o            52                     44         2 . 00
TUNISIA              7 3    tl. IG      bau        6. 3     2 3. 4       37     4 3     18       S5         72           8 1         4 1         6 . 0          31          114       1 1        3, OD
UGANDA               75   1 1 , .       2 3ii       3. 40 Y  1 5 . TDY   34FY  40LI 22EY   25A               53xy         . . .       34ty         . . .         14A           byCY    I A        0 .5b y
UPPER  VOL7A         77      5, 6       I 1 8       3. 4     2 3. 9       31      1 6    32         5c        1 3         23          5 1        24.Q            1 9           2        25         1. 0
ZAIRE                76   2t. . t,      i4o         6. 0     22 . 0       49     2b      25        1 5       86X          44          42X          2 . 0         4 1         1 3x       27         I.Ucx
ZAIMBI A             76        . 1      44 0        b. 8      1 5         54     22      22        39        97X          8 u         aq           7             2 1         1 b        a 3        1 . 50
CENTRAL AMERICA AND THL CARIBBEAN
-;T -----
5.1      1 9  1      36      36      1 1      q 3        99          97           2 O         4 . 0         q 7         75          1 9
B.8ADOS              "I              I , 6 2 0      8 , 1    2 2. 1       US      SI     I t,     qq        Lobx          99          2 1          3 . 0         Q9          94X        1 7        . . .
COSTA  RICA          78      dI       I 6 4 5 -     6. 6      33. U.      379   27U   30           90D       93           77          32           . . .         77          39.        19        1 3.0ox
CUBA                 78      9  5(, 9 , 5 0 0       8, 0      1 1. 0    . . .    . . .    . . .    96        90           q8          22           2 . 7         98          65         15        is.00
81OMINICAN  REP.72           4:b        79UG        3. o      1 3. 9      42      24     2        51        80           I 1         5 u          3. 01)        63          , 4        2 4        7. 00
FL  SALVAOCIR        7 7     14  1      57 0        a  0     i7  2        64       8     27        62        88x          32           39          2. 2          41          i3         21         7 . a 0
GUA TEMALA           73      b:,!G      7uocl       1 q       1 6 : 6     55      23      14       47        64           26           35          3.Q           69            b        25         4.0gy
mAiTi                76      4  7       20 0        1 0        8.0        t, 1    2 1     1 1      2 0 8     25F          1 3         sbu          3.0           bz            4        . I I        o .1
HCJNDURAS            75      d:9G       4QOG        4. 2G   18.BG         6 2 G   ISG   IgG        53        78           30          3s           3.0           68          1 1        1 7        4, 00
JAMArCA              7 b     d . I I I 0 7 0        q.9       I 6 . 2     37      33     22        BbE       9 1          52          39           4 .5          q 4         64         25         7 . SS
MEXICE)              75   54.9   1,050              3.1DC  12.QDG   Sly   2bY   12Y                76       112XY         31          ob           3.0           b3          35XY       23A        0,97EY
MI C AR AGtJA        7 4     e. . 3(,    IOOG       2.5       1 4 . 2     6 I     1 3     1 3      57        6 5          2 1         3 7          2.u           9 3         1 7        2 4        7 , 00
PANAMA               7 8     I,bH  1, 2 2 0         S. 4      . . .       42H   I 3H   1 3         82A       9 7          82E          32H         3 . 0         osm         ug         S4H      20 . 00
YRTNIDAD  &  T. 7 7          1 . I e b 5            a.5       1 4 . A     4 8     32     2 0      95         98           0 1          30          3.u           419         6 a        2 a
SOUTH AMtRICA
76    'J . d      315F         S. o     17.5F                                38         In          291         2,4          5F            . . .         48        18D
BRAZIL               75  1 11). IH  I ,3VOG         2. 8H   1 2 . 4       42F   20E   22H          64A       8BG          . . .       27CY         . . .                     26G        isci       6,009
CHILE                75   lv.SG  1,05OG             3.SRY  12.SRY   23Y   toy   SOY                ...      IIqxy         ...         35Y          ...                       QBXY       ...       16.55Y
COLOMBIA             74   24 . 3G       bSoG        3. 3V Y  2 1 . 20 Y   UOnY  22UY  I I Y        7 3      losky         2 n         33Y          4 . 0         90          3bxy       14A        6.67Y
ECUAOGR              75      7, 3G      7 0 O(I      3. 10   27.7C        . . :   . . . . . .      69       102xy         . . .        38         . . .         ...         38XY       14C        . . .
V,UYANA              74      .bF       31OF        S. BN   1 4 . 7 0     4 7     35      L a      83A       92X          39          3 3          6.0           1 9         62x        24         L.00
PARAGUAY             74      e.bG       65OG        1.8       I I . 0     55      1 3    2 2       S 1       82           26          31)          1 . 9         65          1 7        1 2        5, 00
PIER IJ              75   Ib,JG         8aoG        11. 21) y  21.7DY   40Y   22Y   15Y            72       1 1 1 x y     38          39t) y       3. 0          7 0         48xy       23DY   1 4 . 411 v
URUGUAY              75      d,86  1, 370G          2. 5      1 5 . 3     06      34     20       94         93X          . . .       24           . . .         gj          . . .      10         . . .
VENEZUELA            73   Ie.3G  e,54oG             a . 6    19.51        30M    189   35(         77A       61           . . .       33          2."            ...         33         . . .    12.63cy



EoWAftAlVE EVUCAtION  INDICATOR$  tCONTDI               30                     ANNEX I  PAGE 2
SEPTEMBER 9, 1960
9       I       I          t        1                1         0       I          s      :                               £ t     I
I NP/  I S GNP  t2 TOTALES   OF PUBLIC  I            I        I          :PRI.  Av,PRI.   l             I       tSEC    I
,       aCAPITAI DOVOTCDIPUBLIC I EDUCATION    iLITER.  I PRI, ICOMPLE- 1STU. #SCH,TEACHgPROGRESS.I  3EC.  WUTU- #HIGHERI
I       I  AT  I TO EDE l  EXP, I RECURRENT    IACY            ,ENROLLITION       SDENT34SALARY  INItON RATE IENROLLIDENTSIENROLLt
IMARKElI (PU8LIC:DEVOTED,EXP ALLOCATED:   RATE  IRATIC IRATE FORIPER  tRELATION  IFROM PRI,IRATIO IPER   lRATI  I
P PUP, IRRIC1 ;I EXP,   I  TO    I         TOl       1(2 OF  I NET   IPRI3SCH.ITEACHS TO GNP/ lTD SEC,  I NET   ITEACH  GRU311I
YRtMILLS.I (USS)I ONLY)  i  EDU, tPRI, SEC. HI.IADULTS)i (0)  ICYCLE(SMtER    I CAPITA   t  (                      I)  I (2)  IER    i ()    I
I       I       I          I        3I               I         I       I          :      :                         a         I 3  3      I
(1) I,  (2) I  (3)    a  (4)  1          (5)       : (6)    I (7)  I  (8)    I (9) a  t10)    t (11)           I(1)   3(13)   (141)   a
_...._..-,-e.-.,....  ............................................................,....,_,...... ,,",.... _._..._. ......................_,_......__._._.,,.fl,
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFCMtAN .STAN    77M 14 S      1804     1,8   11,6       47    19   IS      12      29X       69       37        3,0G        62       Ax      17      1,00
BANGLADESH      73  80.4G       90C     1.2   20,2       q4Y  22Y  21Y    230       S X        .       48D       ,.         ,,,      23xD   28        ,,,
IN01A           75  .Z..4G    1.0. 2..00                               . *,. . .298  65x     .,.      43A       .,.       ,         29xr    20AY   2,34Ev
INDONESIA       78 1 3SQ      360       2.4     9.1     26G  32G  156   62          92       48        32        3.0       70        19      17       2,00
IRAN            73  33.oG 2,06OG        3,3    12.6     508   18b  128   50         77       74A       32       5.08       BOA       24      3Z       4,32CY
IRAC            75  I1.5G 1,390G    t,7C   16,3DR  .,.  ...  .,    26C              93XY      ,,.      22         .,.      ,,.       35xY    26C      8,47Y
JORDAN          77   2.8      997       4.5K    7,1K    25R  50H   3R   70          97x       SI       32        2,0       91        66      22      10,60
KOREA           76  37,0  1,242         2.8    17.5      35   29    36    93       102x       94       49        2.9       91        60      45      18.00
LERANON         72    .,2G 1,070G       3,5    18.0      39   40    lo    68       86         05       19        2,0       43        26u     25      23,00
MALAY3IA        76  12,o      obo       b.7   26,0    42   34    15    eoc          95        93       32        3.7       78        48      28       3,00
NEPAL           7D  12,0F    1LOF       1.1   10.0      29   20   41        19      59        20       3t        2,3       64        14      24       0,8
EMAN            72    ,0dF d,300F       1.TN   3,8       96         * .     20      24X       99       27F       7.0        .,       0,4X      9      ,*.
PAKISTAN        75  11,3G    18o0       1,6   06,2       45   25    18    21        47X      50        39        2,0       ,,,       17X      18      6,00
PAPUA NCG.    75   i,dG    .SoG         5,6    a.1      38   l6   24       32      577       73P      31       11,0       90        12X?   24        0,907
PTLIPPINtS   74  43.26   420G    2.5    14.9            73   1S   12       87     104X       ,.1      34       ¶N.0       , ..      46X    ..,    21,00
SINGAPORE       74   2,3C 2,5boG        2,7Y   9,2Y    39Y  39Y  17Y   75A    10S9X           72A      31Y       ...       99A       44XY   24        7,baY
SYRIA           75   7,eG    830G       3,6 6c    9      39   25   24       53      89        70       35        2.u       92        45      21      12 00
THAILAND        77  44,1      410       4,OV  20.0    5S    30    15    e4F         83        30       35        S.ou      70        24      25       3,00
TURKEY          73  Q.'9G 1,o0oG    5.6CY 20.(CY   .,             ..,-* ...    8SY            ,.,      34Y       ...        ...      24Y     2700    5,83Y
YEMEN           73   t,4G   3004        0,8     4,0     45P  21P  23P    to         5SX       18       36       5,0        75         2x     19       0,05dY
YEMEN P.D,R.  7b   1,7        280       8.6     ,,.     57   28       a    20       89x       48       30       5,         9q4       21X     24       0,10
,t,,,,,,_,,, ~~....................,.,.......................,.... *_,........, _ __.._....................
SUMMARY FOR DEVE.LOPIN4 COUNTRIES,
NUMBER OF COUNTRIES 100                       94      91   91   89       93      ol       79       101          74      6 3       99      97        89
RA^NGES00.S.  (3,8.   (21. (8-  (2-    (S.                                       (13-     (13-      (16-      (1,5-    (8.       (.4.    (9.       (.01-
12.0 ) 3.0)   9b I 72)  50)    99)          133x)    99 )    69 1    24,0 )   99)            95   )  45)    30,1)
GUARTILESlUPPER I                    5.9   21.2       49   35   22    86         98        91        42          o       91        48      25     11,0
MEDIANS                   4,2   I.0      42   26    16    60         82       65        34          4       68        24      22       3,4
LO..ER t                  3,0    12.4     34   21    13    25        5S        33        29          2?      41        1       is8      1,0
SYMBOLSI,,.  DATUM UNAVAILABLE                 AWl97U  OR qEFJRe           M=CUNRRNT PRICt.S                         SOUNCESI
*  MAGNITUUE NIL UO  NEGLIGIBLE 4x1971                           NuGDP
?  QUESTIONAbLE                     Cm1972                       PZINCLJDING FOREIGN AID                    CULO:NSII AND 2 OURUD BANK ATLAS
*  INCLUDES PART.TIME STUDENTS D-1973                            QICENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                          OR I0RD MISSIUNS
A*  COMBINBU AITH PRIMARY            E1974                        RUMINISTRY OF EDUCATIUN  (MOIE) LlhLY                3 TU 10 IBRU MISSIONS
K"  UNDER RtViLW                      F.1975                       SaMUE AND STATE G[IVT, ONLY                                   AND/UR UNESCOl
G=197b                      T4EXCLUOING CENTRAL GOVT,
He;i971g9SLC  hL                                                                   STATISTICAL
Kn1977                      UsPUBLIC ONLY
*:1978                     VE1NCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE                               YEARBOOx
X4INCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
YxUNESCO SOURCES
eOMPARATIVE EDUCATIUN DAlA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VA RIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OP RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BTENVRUSCUTIS  HOWEVER,ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS.NATIONAL CMAIO    HoO4   PRAMDNT
GETCAUTION, DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSION FCOMPAIGNSOVERNMEN                      APPRCEACTHE NT
REMAINBIR ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO  NEFFORSAS   ANO                                                             TN         S
ACCURAEY OFL   O THE DTA  NEVERTHELESS,SUCM  DAIA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVRA   ESETSN ANDITZE DE ANKITOS  OAKNG WTOI LIMPROVE TU HEM                   TH
R EDICAT?ON   AS DCAINEO  I                                  N                             THE 1OLLOING O UALIFICATIUNS S'OULD BE BORNE IN
1)'ERUCARY ED S    CA DIN   NF IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND IRAINING, FORMAL AND YON-FOMAL,
(2)kEELRMRYEGADLEASION RyE (E G.GNRLTEHCA                        GIUTRL)RS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND  'SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TOI ALL, EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
3'LITERACY RAtES'(COL.6) ARt OFTEN IJBTAINED FROM COC)UNTRY CENSUSES, IN MANYC11UNTRIES THEy ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT Is
DOUBTFUL THAI ANY UNIFORM DEFINITIoN OF 'LTRT"HSBENOLOE    OSSETY
(4)POSIC   XPEDITR~IN EDUCATION-CCOLS.3,4 AND 5) REFER TOy ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED To EDUCATION by
P'UBLIC AND GUASI-PIUBLIC AGENCIES,
I5PN TLLEN APROPAVIO S(CHULS,   12AD1)RFR TO  SCosOOL YEAR AND  WEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
CON    TH IE SAP RD 1iN E  SCHOATOL,   PUBLIC   AND CPRIA TEO   BY AL VEL  TH Y  R   OFTEN   SUBJECT   TO   A   WIDE   MARGIN   OP    ERROR   IN   THE   DEVELOPING
RE GUENTRYIAS OW IN  O   VR ITATO IN THE   ACU    CY O   BSI    DATA(?I.E,   AGE-SPECIFIC   POPULATION   AND   ENROLLMENTS),  ENROLLMENT   FIGURES
FREQENTY AR  HIHER  HANTHENUMBER OF STuJDENTS ACTUALLY IN   COL    VRGDSUET    HS    NLSO   SIDCTD B
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS,NSCOLOVRGDSUETWHEICUIN1    NICEUB



SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR
AND THE PRIVATE NON-AGRICULTURAL SECTOR, 1979-1983
Distribution by Education Level Primary
Private Non
1) Occupation Group  (Demand)                    Public  Agricultural               University  Secondary   Intermediate    and
Sector      Sector      Total       Higher                 Teacher Other  Below
Professionals                                   1.9           -         1.9          1.9                     -       -       -
Lecturers and secondary education teachers    1.7            -          1.7          1.7           -         -       -        -
Technicians and subprofessionals                4.5          0.1        4.6           -           3.4        -      1.2       --
Teachers - primary and technical 1/            10.7           -        10.7           -           1.1       9A6      -        _
Administrators managers                         1.3           -         1.3          0.2          1.1                - -
Clerical workers and related                   z6.2          0.3        6.5           -           0.1        _      6.4       -
Sales workers                                   0.2          2.9        3.1           -           0.1        -      0.3      2.7
Service workers                                 2.2         1.2         3.4           -            -         -       -       3,4
Agricultural workers                            0.3           -         0.3           -            -         -       -       0.3
Skilled and semi-skilled laborers              10.0          2.2       12.2           -            -         -      0.8    11.4
Laborers                                        1.7          1.1        2.8           -            -         -       -       2.8  S
Total                                          40.7          7.8       48.5          3.8          5.8       9.6    8.7    20.6
2) Formal Education (1979-1983)  (Supply)
Primary School (6 years)                                                                                                    30.0
Primary School (8 years)                                                                                           56.0
Primary Teacher Training                                                                                     7.5
General Secondary                                                                                13.0
Technical Secondary                                                                               3.0
Vocational Secondary                                                                              1.2
.~~~~~~~
1/ Vocational teachers excluded.
Source: Ministry of Labor and Bank Staff estimates, 1980



SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIMARY EDUCATION ACTUAL AND PROJECTED ENROLLMENTS 1972/73-1988/89
1/1
Grade   1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79 11979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89
1      20,120   24,330      -      133,610   68,256   41,631   62,963   72,000   75,000   77,000   79,000   81,000   83,000   85,000   87,000   89,000   91,000
2      14,890   20,170      -       38,230   86,505   51,752   37,990   55,400   64,800   67,000   68,000   69,000   71,000   73,000   75,000   77,000   78,000
3      10,170   14,950      -       15,400   41,619   72,311   47,408   33,700   49,900   59,000   61,000   61,000   62,000   64,000   66,000   68,000   69,000
4       7,450   10,040      -       10,470   14,588   38,410   64,892   43,300   31,000   45,000   54,000   56,000   56,000   57,000   59,000   61,000   63,000
5       6,980    7,280      -         -      10,425   14,154   36,507   62,200\\21,600   29,000   42,000   51,000   52,000   52,000   52,000   54,000   56,000
6       7,510    7,730      -        7,550    7,637   10,286   13,991   34,90    20,000   20,000   27,000   39,000   47,000   48,000   48,000   48,000   50,000
7       5,210    6,930      -        6,930     -         -         -    I           31,000   18,000   18,000   24,000   35,000   42,000   43,000   43,000   43,000
8       4,970    5,470      -        7,330     -         -         -        -       28,700   28,000   18,000   18,000   24,000   35,000   42,000   43,000   43,000
Total    77,300   96,900      -      219,520  229,030  228,544  263,751  341,500  322,000  343,000  363,000  399,000  430,000 456,000  472,000  483,000  493,000
Output                                                              13,000   33,000   27,000   28,000   18,000   18,000   24,000   35,000   42,000   43,000   43,000
1/ In this school year, all schools were closed.
Source:  Ministry of Education and Bank Group Staff projections.



SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIMARY EDUCATION TEACHER REQUIREMENTS AND SUPPLY 1978-1989
l/                    2/                                                  Net
Teachers              Wastage       Output                        Total    Surplus (+)
School                 Required   Teacher        of       of Trained   Net Increase   Teachers         or
Year     Enrollment                Stock    Teachers    Teachers       of Teachers    Available Shortage()
1978-79    263,751        8,141      8,141       510        1,200            690           8,830        -
1979-80    341,500       10,050      8,830      530         1,200            670           9,500    - 1,220
1980-81    322,000        9,200      9,500       560        1,200            640          10,140    +   300
1981-82    343,000        9,800    10,140        570        1,200            630          10,770    +   '340
1982-83    363,000       10,400    10,770        590        1,200            610          11,380    +   370
1983-84    399,000       11,400    11,380        530        1,200            670          12,050    _    20
1984-85    430,000       12,300    12,050        550        1,200            650          12,700    +   400
1985-86    456,000       13,000    12,700        570        1,200            630          13,330    +   330
1986-87    472,000       13,500    13,330        590        1,200            610          13,940    +   610
1987-88    483,000       13,800    13,940        610        1,200            590          14,530    +   730
1988-89    493,000       14,100    14,530        630        1,200            570          15,100    + 1,000
1/ At pupil-teacher ratio of 35:1.
2/ Wastage at 3% annually plus 60% of entry to Lafole Secondary Teacher's College.  This will
be 270 a year unttl 1984 (assuming Lafole the begins a three-year ,ou se) and 190 thereafter. .X
Source: Ministry of Education and Bank Group Staff estimates, April 1980.



SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUFLIC
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
GENERAL SECONDARY EDUCATION
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED ENROLLMENTS 1973/74-1989/90
Grade   1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79 i1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90
1       1,950      -        1,270    2,076    2,971    5,487 i  5,500    8,000    6,500    6,800    4,200    4,400    5,700    8,500    9,700   10,100   10,400
2       1,990      -        1,950    1,622    1,672    2,666 I  4,940    5,000    7,200    5,800    6,100    3,800    4,000    5,100    7,600    8,500    8,800
3       1,780      -        1,580    1,171    1,456    1,499 I  2,400    4,400    4,400    6,500    5,300    5,500    3,400    3,500    4,500    6,800    7,700
4       2,030    2,000       -       1,439       882    1,478 I  1,380    2,200    4,100    4,100    6,000    4,900    5,100    3,200    3,300    4,200    6,200
Total     7,750    2,000    4,800    6,308    6,981   11,130 i 14,220   19,600   22,200   23,200   21,600   18,600   18,200   20,300   25,100   29,600   33,100
Source:  Ministry of Fducation, April 1980.
u' Z
H 01
I. H



SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
GENERAL SECONDARY EDUCATION TEACHER REQUIREMFNTS AND SUPPLY 1978-1990±/
Net
2/                     31            4/                                     Surplus +   Percent (X)
Teachers               Wastage       Output                         Total        or          Surplus-+
School                  Required   Teacher         of       of Trained   Net Increase    Teachers  Shortage -            or
Year      Enrollment                 Stock      Teachers    Teachers      of Teachers    Available of Teachers   Shortage -
For Next OC Year
1978-79      11,130          706       706           70         450             380           1,090         -               -
1979-80      14,200          800     1,090         110          450             340           1,430      + 290         + 32%
1980-81      19,600       1,000      1,430         140          450             310           1,740      + 430         + 43%
1981-82       22,200      1,000      1,740         170           150          - 20            1,720      + 740         + 74%
1982-83       23,200      1,000      1,720         170           150           - 20           1,700      + 720         + 72%
1983-84       21,600      1,000      1,700         170            O0/          -170           1,530      + 700         + 70%
1984-85       18,600      1,000      1,530          150          150              0           1,530      + 530         + 53%
1985-86      18,200       1,000      1,530         150           150              0           1,530      + 530         + 53%
1986-87       20,300      1,000      1,530          150          150              0           1,530      + 530         + 53%
1987-88      25,100       1,100      1,530         150           150              0           1,530      + 430         + 39%
1988-89       29,600      1,300      1,530          150          150              0           1,530      + 230         + 18%
1989-90       33,100       1,400     1,530         150           150              0           1,530      + 1OO         +  9%
1/ Based on Government projections assuming transfer at 24% of primary school leavers.
2/ This assumes a weekly schedule of 36 class contact hours for the students and 27 periods for the teachers and
a class size of 36 which would drop to 27 in the last grade. The average student teacher ratio would be 24:1.
3/ Calculated at 10%. Wastage is relatively high due to migration et.al.
4/ College becomes three years in 1984.
5/ No output as courses are extended from 2 to 3 years.
Source: Ministry of Education and Bank Group Staff estimates, April 1980.
0'. 



SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION, ENROLLMENTS AND TEACHERS. 1978/79
Age      No. of                                 Pupils per    Number in        % of age
Stage              Grade   Range      Schools    Enrollment    Teachers       Teacher      Age Group    Group enrolled
Pre-Primary                  -      4- 6          18        5,296           146        36.2         227,000           2.3%
Primary                     1- 6    6-11      1,438       263,751         8,141        32.4         605,000          43.6%.
Secondary
General                  7-10   12-15         36        11,130           706        15.8         366,000           3.0%
Technical                7-10   12-15           6        1,915           105        18.2         366,0O0           0.5%
Technical                7- 9   12-14          4           982            97        10.1         276,000           0.3%
Vocational Training l/      7- 8   12-13           6        1,533           131        11.7         185,000           10.8%
Primary Teacher Training    7- 8   12-13           1        2,856           162        17.6         185,000           1.5%
Secondary Teacher Training 11-13   17-182/        1         1,005            99        10.2         174,000           0.6%         1
TechnicalTeacher Training 11-13   17-18.W'        1           190            25         7.6         114,000           0,1%
University                 11-14   l7-20C          1        1,777          n.a.        n.a.         337,000           0.5%
-- - -  - -- - - - - -- - - - ------  -- -- ----- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --   - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -
Women's Education                                 51        3,714           300        12.4           n.a.            n.a.
Adult Education                                  850       27,083          n.a.        n.a.           m.a.            n.a.
1/ Vocational courses of one year or less are not included.
2/ 16 year olds are in National Service.
Source:  Ministry of Education and Bank Group Staff, April 1980.



-37                               ANNEX 1
Table 8
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION TO
TOTAL GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURE AND GDP, 1976-1986
Government
Government      (2)/(l)       Expenditures        (4)/(2)   (4)/(1)
GDP       Expenditures      Percent    on Education l/       Percent   Percent
FY             (1)           (2)             (3)            (4)                (5)       (6)
Actual
1976                5,397           830.1          15.3            116.2             13.9       2.1
1977                6,391           968.4          15.6            139.4             14.3       2L1
1978                8,198         1,551.0          18.9            168.7             10.8       2.0
Estimates
1979                8,444         1,838.0          21.7            221.0             12.0       2.6
1980                8,697         1,792.0          20.6            215.0             12.0       2.4
Proj ected
(1978 prices)
1986               10,384         2,293.0          22.0            275.1             12.0       2.6
1/ Includes Ministry of Education and Ministry of Higher Education and Culture but
not education and training under other Ministries.
Source: Ministry of Finance and Bank Staff estimates, April, 1980.



SOMALI DEMOOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOURTH TTOICOTSOS PROJECT
S05MMARY OF ENROLLMENT7 ANlSESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(nSomalia Shilllegs in 000Is, base.d no ce-nbe  1980 Prices   CR51.3     S.. Sh. 6.295)
Civil Werk-             untt
Oreden      Tora1 Area in    (Bldg/Sit. Woks)             (osnesie)          Equipmen.T      Tn-lPrjc
Pro sit Diem                              Places         TI2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M oE Sea  for Teahleg .cd    lot Teathiog and  -d       Phyrlesil   Tethme-l    AeSrie            Mdal.-               TtlCs
No.Nm.aaLoatoNAd-lalC-drcros                                                                                                     Cno-slAns              EonoslAea               ehcls-oiueeeOA-iot    Tenin                            stoto        thi.A.             tUl-,,,
Sector A   Pri-y Teahor TrRainig O-ore  Ce-t-r
A-1       Reoot-  Es-re  at Bid   s-ond-cy Irheol, Say Region-                                                       130                  270.0                40.0               180.1          090.0         -           DROSS                        1,490,0            236,5
A, 2        snre  Ceter orSheikh lasses Se....d-y School, Tngdh-s  Togro                     --                      130                 290.0                 45.0               220.0          555.0         -1,905.0                                 2,4O0.0           390.5
0-3       Rosna..e. ten, ecIt Qocyoley O--docy Enio-l, Lame  Sthel1i legion--                                        130                 4i,                    0.0               170.0          460.0                     1,560.0                      2,020.0           320.0
A-5       De-nssn  Ce-er atKi,e-y.Slate -od-y   Ochnol, T uDgado b          ngin                -       --10                             290.0                 45.0               190.0          525.0         -1,000.0                                 1,525.0            240.1
A-S  gesnotee Center at RismaV  inceado!,Tyl Sthnn1 tnec  Tes e5 no-                                      130                  210.0                4-0.0              200.0          51.0-1,9-0 5.0                                         2  _j,5O           383.3
A-6                                                                                      2_e-nnl(AItn0503 3  650            ,3_70.                 01. 002                       0 ~ 2,540.0        -7-370,                     -            .%TP             L53l
AA   tilecottenal tits toe Ecimony OnhT-1                                            -       -             -                  -                     --               7,5600 0       0560.0          -                                         hj-                 0 
Total Sector A                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                          ~     ~     ~~~650  1,3_70.0  210O,500i     JQ97  iii!    -            %-ftg.0           217,200
Seto  S See-da,   Teaher T-W,rolelnLIe-o                                                                                                                                                                                                             1,7092_7
11   Latnaf   elej  o  Ede-alie, REgal, tune   Ohe~belli Ration                            -   3.5Q             130               1 000.0                350.0            2,50.0P         3j350.0      _.26.09                                    4 0610.0          736.0
C-I  Oases icenndary: Ston,            d,sa    Regioc                                    1010                   3                    0.                  35.0               430.0        1,265.0                                                  1    ,265.0        200.9
C2 3       orasr Seto..dacy School,  Ced  Dab e                                                144    288            234                 640.0                125.                4000.0       1150            -                                        1,165.0            1I4.9
C-3  Jamasee Seceadary SchooL, lenec Taha  Ocgtee                       -      432           300                 740.0                215.11             045,0432      1,400.0 445-0 40-01,400.00222.2
C-A      A,,lo .   ci S-dySeenor.Seee L , hli lli SRlee                                                432           110                 310.0                010.0               425.0          995.0         --                                         905.0            156.3
C-I      ACddni  Sece-d-y SehuoJ, tokec  RShsi-  4tSt                                                   32           193                 470.0                190.0              390.0         1,050.0         ---1050.0                                                   166.7
C-A       Rdo:7edt   lhe,Rhltge                                                                144    009            234                 040.0                105.0              400            ,lS0           --1,165.0                                                  104,,
C-        Osot    eedt    cee,lsaleeRgo                                                         -      720           130                 350.0                000.0              420.0         10.0            -                                        1,030.010.
C-B QocnlY SonapShe, ee  ShahliRgo                                                       2 61    432            40                 220.0                200.0              410.0           R30.0         -                                          830.0           DSD7
C-S        sseScnayVenl   aARgn                                                                 -      43            1 30                400.0                140.0              50.           T,1.                                                      ,1.               9.
C-DO   -ea    Physital Ed-'aio  aed SKPedInioe,OgdoleRie                                          144           135                 3000.1                                  280,0           73.0          -21-70.015.
ShTtl(C-  tC-)657  3,0898                                         1,740               4,930.0              1,00.040000                      10.300            -1930                                                    1.219,1
C-li      Sa1,oole iS-ed-y Schoo, LostSh-            ei  ORgi-                                 28R     288        1,200                2,220,0                200.0               370.0        5,090,0         ---2,790.0                                                 440.0
C-2     li--endo--y Sc-ed-ty loh-e, leas  lihaheli Ragi-                                      200     200        1,200                2,120,0                D90.0               3530.0       2,440.0         --                                       2,A60.0           423.0
C-i3      Bren  Sonned-   Seheel, Tens  St-belli O,gi-e                                        D44    144            010               1,200.0                nO5.0               275.0        1,600.0         -                           .1,670.0                        251
C-14  Adele Seceodacy School,  Middle OhehelDi RegIon                 105      144          210                1.330,0                120,0              290.00 1,30.0  20i 0z20.0     - 740.01,740,2766C
Sa  Ttl(C-il en C- 145                        864    004         3_2                  6,950.0               __25,0            1,2 .05,          860,,tT9o.                                               A86M.         1,409.-3
Se-torlC  Con-cett _al td Mo,oo cmeec7Tslie
0-1       Sec-if T-silee sa   Aee demn .mOoinie-ti- end M-no-men  (SfDAM),                      -                   -                                         -2U000.0                        J  _200g0O     0_721            -            -. 00,2200                      63.-
Oa-t- 17  S-edtoo
t-1- 3   r-eenno,lalttnndCiilD en-ot-  mP-e}1a-t S-i-ols                                                                                                                                                   2 -  077.0                                   01.                 4.
P-S       P-j-et end School Vsige Unft  (-edar 00E), Megodi-nie  Oagi-n-                                             250                 400.0                 )O. 0               75.0          500.0    1,0010 T                      .&O          ~    ,0.               0.
Bsi  Cos  ogt.f .0                                          in Se. Sh.                                                                  14,73090              20)20              L5.. I -/    >0  34A920~0   14_i12_.        7, 30        2 70fli.       5 16.8
AaeonOctber 1900 pcinn-)                               in 070                                                                       727339,                481.7            jj2)3.0         5,542.9    2,250j0         il161.0       355. 
Pl,yeicolIncreases(055                     in Sn. Oh.                                                                   1450102.                                   05.6,726p 0,95C0                                        lO               0  0-
in ViA                                                      23~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -3 0  _2,1  13.0.2   48354.1  112.5    59_6.0      103.0         3                  0,
EceI-nc-ee   (347,)                         ic Sn-  Sh.                                                                      10 29,99,9900.057358.0                             13 5_8 0 .      6oO     9p2.  19_25~         3 40.0      09,722.0
en USo                                                                       0,29                   174.0               05-0.5       2,9,750 6     505.5           305.          05.7~~          -            31_3 04_
T-siCninoco  (40%)                              in Se.  7h.                                                                  8 .SSD.0             1,254,0             6,210 0       106 057  0   4,398,0 0_9,                    ,30         2     I
i,~~~~~ US$                                              1 3_62 0                i916O             _ 986 o 7      _9547 i      698mO          __L64 0        la?_0                         3 M-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 32     ~,.~2 950  430  3  0
Pcoloet braS                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~In, Se. 06.                                                      23 3_11 0             4 277_9      0      3_3 /1.      5_0 397 1 .0  77013. 573477,W0    7_,74,77.- 07901.8
(cnss leoloden   oneingoonien ad noes  S  COO                                                                       3,970.1                 680,7             ,-709.9_7     820909,   9,,7              29,770453-   il2-o2                          7040. LI
En-ege leeha-ge Copne.Ic 7                                                                                                     521.                   8007             905.            -           505.            405.         007.                            7 117
It 7770                                                                      1,0_24.0               545.0            7,9394,7       7,774,9        0550            613.0        1I1L0 O.035 



SOMALI UONOCRATIC HIFUBLIC
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
C0E8INTATION SCHEDULE
Negotiationl Dute.~   >             It.DEfccti-e D-e                                                                                       Pject Closing Date
(estimet 6 October 1930)  leetlinated ~~~Aptil 1, 19811                                                                       (-si.atd M-csb 31, 1987)
Sector  Type of Sector  :  1980  1 i9812  j 3 | 4  ' 5  X   _ 1              12   13   14   15 /1982  1983  1984  1995                      | 1     1987
NatIon  Type of itoton    ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~~T T                                  TTF½js               4    5    6    7    8    9    lU   11   11   13   lb   15   lb   17   18   19   IU   21   22   23   24~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1: ~3 1    ~1  ~6 7   18 1
A.1 - 5      P -isacy Teaoh-e  Tcalsitg Resource Cantons
a.  8vy  f  its  nd  nistig b -ildtngs  design sock  sod sit  supe   '                                                          SS   SSS NSS  SSS
A.  tfei   ont  qnindle   b        pi eTTT  XXX    IXX    XYCX  DDD  DD   DDD  iDD
d Furniture sod equtpment                                                                                            O WW   TTT  XYX   XXX I XXX  iXX
d.  rn-service trainiugr                                                                                                                             II                     T                     I III     III
A.6          Edu..tisat l Kies fat Pri=atv 8chosois 
a.  Hqutptnene                                                                                 j                       tV  TIT  0XXX  DUO |I XXXXY
B,l          Lafole Collesie of Uducotiot 
a iurvy of site and esistisg Jnildisgp , desig n  ot ed site  speisi                                                             OOo        D    0NS   3SS9  005
Ab   Civil vorkt itoludieg liability peniod          w    an  s  e su erv   on| TTT  XXX  XXX XIX  1X1 X                                                                  DIDDDD  INDDDD   1
T. l        lnnitsre A -d equinment                                                                                               0 V0V   TTT  XXX  YXX  XXX  X0Y
d.  Techicial Assistance (Cone specialists, oeact far six eonnibs)                                                                         M AA  AAA8  AtA  bAAA
C.1 - 10      Usiotiss Secodarv Schooni
Survey of sites sod existing Asildings, design vork igd site .upavisio                                                                     000  ODO  OO   008  OD           SNN  9sS  NNs  gSN  SIN  S       IS  SIN S   9S   088
Ab   Civil  oiks including liability p_nind                                                                                              ,                                 TTT  no   XDX  XXY  0111  XXD  XXX  .IDX  XXX  XXX  IXX  17D  lID  DDD  19DDD
c.  F-rnitune and equipment                                                                                                               00VW  V00   WV  TTT  CXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXXX  XXX
C,II - 14    9os Sernadsrp  Noois
s. Nunney of sitng, design snrk end sitr  supervisin                                                                      000  ODD  OOD I00     000  000        ENo 0ss    118  890  18s  NSS    888 S  ni  SSS   S   SSs 8
h.  Cmii -osks inoluding liability period                                                      I                                                     0    TTT  COD  XXX  XXX  XXX  XYX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  DDD  DDD  DDD  DDD
c.  Funsit-ne  snd eqsip,eni0t 0VVV  V0   0V   TTT  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX
D.2          Somali In-titute of De-elKenest. Adilnistrati-o ssd llanagemett (SIDAM4)8j
E. fqnip=ant                                                                                                               VW  TTT  XXX JXXX  XX   XXX  XXX 
A. Tocheinsl Aessisets- (28 oe-yesrs)                                                                                                           MA  AAA  MA  A8.  AM   48A4   AAA  AA4 MA  AAA  AM  A48  088  AA8  AM  AAA  AAA  A4A  AAA AAA
E.1- 3       Pns-leseient   iva  ion  ad CiviE Heroics FaHDsvsnnt Stndkoa
s.  Tehenical iseistasn;                                                                                                                  AA  AAA  AAA          AAA  AAA                         AAM  AAM
F.1I         P-rl-c  ssd Scnonl issign Unit
S-. ey nf sits, design vork qnd site sopervision                                                                 8U D       Sss  SSS  sii  SSS
b.  Civil  -kn  i-lnudisg liability peHod;                                                                                TTT    CXXX  XXX1      XXX EO    D DDD DDDI) D.I  DODD
c.  Psanitone asd sqoipoteet                                                                                         VVV  TTT  XUC  XXX 0  XX  oXX                                   I
d.  Taeheical Aseisiosan                                                                                                  M    MA  M        /AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA  AA                                                      A  AAA  AA  AAa  AAA  AAA A
a.   mini staff                                                                                                          1'LLL  LLL  LLL ILLL  Lit LLi  Lit  Lit  iLL  Lit  Lit iLL  LU. Lit  LL LLL  LLL  LLL               T.  ILL   LL  LL   LtL LLL
Legend:  0 -                   -unee- of sires end/nc esieting bildiags, and e-rhite-t-ual design.
S - Sit sspecvisa.. 
V - Pespatatiss and spproval of furniture sod equipment lists.
T - Tenden procedsre anq a=ard of connanots.
X- Costestrution  and manssntuniss, delive-y sad itsellati    f fiitiue  nd e d uieet.
H - Defaes  lsitbility period.                              tano ur      
I - n-servi-e training.
A - Tachbi-al as.isten.e (spenislier).
L- Ltona  staff.
if eplteme-tati-n cont f..s April 1, 198I (effective date) sad op to Utnbher 1983 sill bAe shind with the Thild Edncatino Poiro-t.
S.o.rc: P-oj-ot Unit sod sank Group Staff



ANNEX 1
-'40 -                                  Table 11
SOMALIA IV
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Accumulated             Undisbursed
Quarter                Disbursements                 Disbursements               Balance
1 (FY81)                     -                             -                      10.2
2 (FY82)                    0.1                           0.1                     10.1
3 (FY82)                    0.1                           0.2                     10.0
4 (FY82)                    0.2                           0.4                      9.8
5 (FY82)                    0.2                           0.6                      9.6
6 (FY83)                    0.3                           0.9                      9.3
7 (FY83)                    0.3                           1.2                      9.0
8 (FY83)                    0.4                           1.6                      8.6
9 (FY83)                    0.5                           2.1                      8.1
10 (FY84)                     1.0                          3.1                      7.1
11 (FY84)                    1.2                           4.3                      5.9
12 (FY84)                    1.2                           55                       4.7
13 (FY84)                    1.2                           6.7                      3.5
14 (FY85)                    0.8                           7.5                      2.7
15 (FY85)                    0.6                           8.1                      2.1
16 (FY85)                    0.5                           8.6                      1.6
17 (FY85)                    0.4                           9.0                      1.2
18 (FY86)                    0.3                           93                       0.9
19 (FY86)                    0.3                           9.6                      0.6
20 (FY86)                    0.2                           9.8                      0.4
21 (FY86)                    0.2                          10.0                      0.2
22 (FY87)                    0.1                          10.1                      0.1
23 (FY87)                    0.1                          10.2
24 (FY87)                     -



4
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC,REPUBLIC
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
EDUCATION PYRAMID
LEVEL                                                                          1978/79                                                         % of
Age Group
UNIVERSITY
14
13
13                                              MALE                                                             FEMALE                       0.9%
2,510 ':   462
+ 
11
-4-
SECONDARY
T r
10                                                                           1,393    350
+                                                                                                                                                                   4
1,836                                  , 435
+                                                                              -.  ,.                                                          5. 0%
a                                                                      4,223           1,521
7                                                                  6,549                 2,109
1- 
PRIMARY
t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-.                               ,,...    ....------
6                                                             9,869 ... ....,.              4,122
5                                26,122 1                                                             10,385
+ _ E ~~~~~~~~~~...                 - . . .. . . . .
4        41,518                                                       _                                                       23,374          43.6%
3                             28,781                       l                                                       118,627
2                                     23 437                         .................14,553
1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    . . . . . . :_ . . _. . . . . . . . . . . .    . .''"'Z'''**''''****'**!'*a*'*'  
1  39,365                                                                                                          23,598~~~3,37-- 1455
40,000           30,000          20,000           10,000             0              10,000           20,000           30,000                     f  X
I               I                I                I                I            _   I-I                      I                    
99,536
TOTA L 18B5.603
World Bank -21586
Source: Ministry of Education and Ministry of Culture and Higher Education,
April 1980.



SOMALIA DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART - MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 1980
|  MINISTER      ;
ASSISTANT7                                                  SITN
MINISTER~~~~~~~~~MIISE
A7DVISERDIETRGN
PRIMARY EDUC        7SECOND/TECH.    | TEACHER TRAIN.             NON--FORMAL             PADINISTRATION                                  PERSONNEL
DEPARTMFNT           EDUC. DEPARTME 'N     & CURRIC. DEPT.       EDUC. DEPT.             DEPART 'NT              DEPARTMENT J           DEPARTMENT
__ _ .__.__ ~___                                             ___                         __ __        . 1 -u --
Primary Schools       C Seneral Second.  |   Teacher Training    WPmen Education            Planning                                    Fi]ing Personnel
Service               Eervice                 Servie                 Service              Service      J         Service    j         Pcod -er
_ Kindergarten &      Vocational/Tech.          Curriculum        Adult Education         Scool Constr.            Accounting                  nel
Koranic Schools       Schools Service      P         Service  j        Service               Service                 Service            Transfer_Service.|
qorrespondence |       xamination          Youth & Sports          International             Supplies   ]        Discipline
I  Service   l  l   Service                Service            Relation Service           Service                 Service
|Trainin  and  m  |Statistics          | Records       1
n Prduct  Cetre|         g arvice                Service 
Legal    |                             |Public Relations                              Central School                              [Regional Educ. |
: Mnistry o| E                , A.Service                                                Inspectorate                                    Of 
Source: Ministry of Education, April 1980.



SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM, 1979
National      Technical Teacher
Technical Secondary School                  Service       Training College
Technical Secondary School                  Service
National
Pre-School         Primary School                                                                      General Secondary School                    Service        University
Secondary2J
Primary TPr cher Training                                 Teacher Training
Vocational Training
Theoretical age 11979):                                                                           L       Empomn                                                                         Employment
4         5        6          7         8         9        10        I11                               12        13        1 4                      is 16         17       18         19        20                     ns
I   I  - I   I   I   It -t   I   I   I  '  I   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ 1   151  -  i                                                 I i         
Grade (1979):         1         2         3         4         5         6                                 7         a         9        10                           1 1       12        13        14                     rtX
i/ Primary Education will be of 8 years duration starting in 1981.
2/ Secondary teacher training at present reduced to 2 years duration.
3J SIDAM provides courses of varying length for both primary and secondary school leavers.                                                                                        World Bank -21587
Source: Ministry of Education, April 1980.



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Reports Related to the Project
1. Project Preparation Document, Proposals - Fourth IDA Education Project,
December, 1979.
2. Somali Institute of Development Administration and Management, Project
Idea for SIDAM.
3. Review of the Educational Structure, June, 1979.
B. Reports and Studies Related to Education and Manpower
1. Three Year Development Plan, 1979 - 1981, Mogadiscio, 1979.
2. National Manpower Resources and Requirement Survey, 1978 - 1983, Vol. I
and II.



- 45 -
SOMALIA-IV
KEY TO MAP
A. Primary Teacher Resource Centers
A.1 Resource Center at Baida Secondary School, Bay Region.
A.2 Resource Center at Sheikh Bashir Secondary School, Togdheer Region.
A.3 Resource Center at Qoryoley Secondary School, lower Shebelli Region.
A.4 Resource Center at Dusa - Mareb Secondary School, Galgadud Region.
A.5 Resource Center at Kismayo Secondary School, Lower Juba Region.
B. Secondary Teacher Training
B.1 Lafole College of Education, Afgoi, Inwer Shebelli Region.
C. Secondary Education
C.1 Garoe Secondary School, Nugal Region.
C.2 Garbahaary Secondary School, Gedo Region.
C.3 Jamaame Secondary School, Iower Juba Region.
C.4 Buulo Burte Secondary School, Hiran Region.
C.5 Afgoi Secondary School, Lower Shebelli Region.
C.6 Hoddur Secondary School, Bakool Region.
C.7 Wadajin Secondary School, Mogadiscio Region.
C.8 Qoryoley Secondary School, Lower Shebelli Region.
C.9 Bosaso Secondary School, Bari Region.
C.10 Somali Physical Education and SDort Institute. Mogadiscio Region.
C.ll Sablaale Secondary School, lower Shebelli Region.
C.12 Kurtun Waarey Secondary School, Lower Shebelli Region.
C.13 Brava Secondary School, lower Shebelli Region.
C.14 Adale Secondary School, Middle Shebelli Region.
D.   Commercial and Management Training
D.1 Somali Institute of Development Administration and Management (SIDAM),
Mogadiscio Region.
F.   Project Administration
F,l Warehouse, Mogadiscio Region.



a



I B R D 15068
MAY 1980
- .' , _F  4 °          ,48'
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
-12e~~~~~~D                     I                                                 Gul/f  cof  A doe n                                                edr   2
(                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Beredo    12-
:~~~~~~~~~~~Io I j  BoTs,
.              >oyoda                                                                                               -1~~~y  ALULAf
Tuk u                    reso A              Bro y, GAid   B° Rende Beile
-g FOURTH EOCT~O  PROECT                                                        -                           <  .E                EL 
.. A   PHIMARY TESOMEER FESOU908EcEITB9S                                                              :9z °
* B   SECONDARY 38509811 TRAININrG            .-/                                                         7 *_[
*C    S CONOvARY EDUCATOR!-;/                                                                                       
3 D   CERCIAl. ANDMANASENIESEI TRAISINON                                                    .                                 A
*       pFOEETASMIIJS7RATIOFI                                                                S   E/ {ALAYO   ,ARIBAN                       E
-     JJJrru mED  FCE  ROADS 5588509                                          A8AEA -                                  /(
-  GRAVSEIEART$ SO9FACEDI ROAOS                 .                      .    wX    /ev                          z  A
:1;    MAJOR PO5TS                                                                /      )?6aJYoY        LA-  . R
>+     DOMESTIC AIRF ELESE    
*(    INTERNATICNAL. AEEEIELDS                                     i     0'            /     \ 
RIYERS I : R BRNM                                     E/ER
-  -aQOSTRI\T 801*RAARIES                                       \C
 -    IlNTPRRTWATl. 00EEO5ND. ES .k                                       /e  -b            
FOR AXACC LOCAAIJADhFFAOILEjrlEs -FS,                                     G.                                              r
-                  E ;    :    /t iL SAYSE  .Beletwe TREINE     El Bu                                                N /
/.J  G      ¢ane        4$       l         J       u    l C11                                          0 , F gAENAA    50    100   150    200   250   300
*-  i -F* -,2 dinIe p      ur AkaL9> WAnLE\>\t   !             /
. .. _ . \ _ff>/ KAAESADEFSI   Vlanle  V/ vAFGO   8ALAD                               /eA, hod7ahshteen,esmpd,r,o ~,At timdvot&A  Y,,e.epaSefth'~,AS,d$>Edt
r    -        .        X~~~~~~D|insor  !    .. C/  - * S       OY.e ho,,e(,sO,E,h h t9Ye,pAnotmpr d~  ZY frC  D8 gnf IdledVe WoYak
SC; BDALE                    .-K \1 * g   KORYOE    }£GAUfSH-                                         IALEH
<;     XD                         ihrdiOrnbot     rF  W                     X 4      ~        ~~~ SUDANA'   S                   /
AEMAIIE L                                                                                                                             ' LAS ANE 
:~~~~~~          0   M   A-  L_ I0ornnr Afi Boote EWH   OPI                                                                                      7
SECONDARY TEACHER TRINfI                                                                                                         A-
-Il\  .V                                                                                                                          S  -rEY  
PRWECT ADMINISTRATION~                                                        ~ K       ETHONA              *-
\Bodode  /.Ait
)RAVEAR SURFACER                44 ANSA AI                                                                                     I NV,'AN   OCVfAN
,~~~~~AO  PORTS                                                                                            I        .fAZAMI   



