                                      Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR2911



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                 (TF-12410 TF-95351 TF-96770 TF-11407)

                                        ON A

                              TRUST FUND GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10 MILLION

                 AND AN ADDITIONAL TRUST FUND GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$2 MILLION


                                       TO THE

                  PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
                 FOR BENEFIT OF PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY

                              FOR SUPPORT TO A

               MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM – Phase 1

                          IN WEST BANK AND GAZA


                                  April 23, 2014




Sustainable Development Department
Country Department MNC04
Middle East and North Africa Region
                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                           (Exchange Rate Effective August 31, 2013)
                                 Currency Unit    =    NIS (New Israeli Shekel)
                                      US$1.00     =    NIS 3.6057
                                      US$1.00     =    €0.75532
                                      US$1.00     =    SDR 0.65994
                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                        July 1 – June 30
                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AF     Additional Financing                            Municipal Development and Lending Fund
                                                      MDLF
AFD    French Development Agency (Agence               Municipal Development Program
                                                      MDP
       Française de Développement)                     Monitoring and Evaluation
                                                      M&E
BTC    Belgian Technical Cooperation                   Ministry of Local Government
                                                      MOLG
Danida Danish Development Cooperation (formerly        Mid-Term Review
                                                      MTR
       Danish International Development Agency)        Not Applicable
                                                      N/A
EMSRP Emergency Municipal Services                     New Israeli Shekel
                                                      NIS
      Rehabilitation Project (I&II)                    Net Present Value
                                                      NPV
FARV Fixed Assets Registration and Valuation           Operations and Maintenance
                                                      O&M
EMP   Environmental Management Plan                    Operational Manual
                                                      OM
FPPM Financial Policies and Procedure Manual           Operational Policy/Bank Procedure
                                                      OP/BP
ERR   Economic Rate of Return                          One-Stop Shop
                                                      OSS
FP    Funding Partners                                 Palestinian Authority
                                                      PA
FY    Financial Year                                   Project Appraisal Document
                                                      PAD
GAM   Grant Allocation Mechanism                       Project Development Objective
                                                      PDO
GIZ   German Technical Cooperation (Deutsche           Project Grant Management
                                                      PGMIS
      Gesellschaft für Internationale                  Information System
      Zusammenarbeit, formerly GTZ)              PLO   Palestine Liberation Organization
GOI   Government of Israel                       PRDP Palestinian Reform and Development
ICR   Implementation Completion and Results            Plan
      Report                                     SDIP  Strategic Development and Investment
IFR   Interim Financial Report                         Plan
ISR   Implementation Status and Results Report   Sida  Swedish International Development
KfW   German Bank for Development (formerly            Cooperation Agency
      Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau)            TFGWB Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
LG    Local Government                           TOR   Terms of Reference
LGU   Local Government Unit                      TTL   Task Team Leader
LGCBP Local Government Capacity Building Project VAT   Value Added Tax
LTC   Local Technical Consultant                 WBG   West Bank and Gaza

                                Vice President: Inger Andersen
                              Country Director: Steen Lau Jørgensen
                               Sector Manager: Franck Bousquet
                          Project Team Leader: Christianna Johnnides
                             ICR Team Leader: Christianna Johnnides
                                   ICR Author: Christian Eghoff
                                     West Bank and Gaza
                             MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM



                                                     CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph
  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 16
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 28
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 29
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 31
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 33
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 34
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 36
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 39
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 56
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 58
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 63
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 64
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 80
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 81

   MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                  Municipal
Country:            West Bank and Gaza Project Name:
                                                                  Development Program
                                                                  TF-12410,TF-
Project ID:         P111741                L/C/TF Number(s):      95351,TF-96770, TF-
                                                                  11407
ICR Date:           04/23/2014             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                  PLO for benefit of
Lending Instrument: SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                  Palestinian Authority
Original Total
                    USD 37.69M          Disbursed Amount: USD 37.69M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:     USD 37.69M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Municipal Development and Lending Fund (MDLF)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: AFD, BTC, Danida, GIZ, KfW, Sida

B. Key Dates
                                                                      Revised / Actual
Process         Date             Process             Original Date
                                                                      Date(s)
Concept
                10/06/2008       Effectiveness:      01/26/2010       01/26/2010
Review:
                                                                      03/06/2012
Appraisal:      06/22/2009       Restructuring(s):
                                                                      04/26/2013
                                 Mid-term
Approval:       09/17/2009                           05/16/2011       05/16/2011
                                 Review:
                                 Closing:            04/30/2013       08/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                  Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:               Substantial
Bank Performance:                          Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                      Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank                Ratings            Borrower            Ratings
                                                           Moderately
Quality at Entry:   Satisfactory       Government:
                                                           Satisfactory
Quality of                             Implementing
                    Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Supervision:                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                           Overall Borrower
                    Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                           Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                         Indicators                        Rating
Performance                             (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                        Quality at Entry
Project at any time      Yes                               None
                                        (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                 Quality of
                         No                                None
time (Yes/No):                          Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before
                         Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                     Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Public administration- Energy and mining             7                  0
Sub-national government administration               93                 93
General energy sector                                0                  7


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Municipal finance                                    42                 42
Municipal governance and institution building        16                 16
Urban services and housing for the poor              42                 42

E. Bank Staff
Positions               At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:         Inger Andersen               Shamshad Akhtar
Country Director:       Steen Lau Jørgensen          A. David Craig
Sector Manager:         Franck Bousquet              Anna M. Bjerde
Project Team Leader:    Christianna Johnnides        Meskerem Brhane
ICR Team Leader:        Christianna Johnnides
ICR Primary Author:     Christian Eghoff

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of Phase 1 of the Municipal Development Program (MDP) is to improve
municipal management practices for better transparency. This is the necessary condition
for improving service delivery in subsequent phases.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target Formally       Actual Value
                                          Values (from     Revised       Achieved at
Indicator       Baseline Value
                                          approval         Target        Completion or
                                          documents)       Values        Target Years
                Municipalities that graduate up the performance category in which they
Indicator 1 :
                are currently classified.
Value
quantitative or 0%                        25%              30%            96%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/01/2009                  04/30/2013       04/30/2013 08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Revised target of 30 percent achieved by 320 percent.
achievement)
                Municipalities that apply at least two public disclosure methods (publicly
Indicator 2 : available SDIPs, annual external audits, project related data, municipal
                budgets and performance rankings)
Value
quantitative or 0%                        50%              60%            68%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/01/2009                  04/30/2013       04/30/2013 08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Revised target achieved by 113 percent.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                       Original Target Formally         Actual Value
                                       Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
Indicator       Baseline Value
                                       approval           Target        Completion or
                                       documents)         Values        Target Years
                Investments financed that were identified in the municipal Strategic
Indicator 1 :
                Development Plans.
Value
quantitative or 0%                     100%               N/A           100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/01/2009               04/30/2013                       08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Target achieved by 100 percent.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Investments financed that are operational.
Value
quantitative or 0%                       80%             N/A             97%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/01/2009                 04/30/2013                      08/31/2013
Comments
                121 percent achieved. According to the technical audits, 97 percent of
(incl. %
                sub-projects are operational.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Amalgamation initiatives.
Value
quantitative or 4                        6               N/A             8
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/01/2009                 04/30/2013                      08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Target 133 percent achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Energy efficiency pilots completed.
Value
quantitative or 0                        2               N/A             4
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/01/2009                 04/30/2013                      08/31/2013
Comments        Target 200 percent achieved according to target set in ISRs. The
(incl. %        component description in the PAD mentions 3 to 4 pilots; this was fully
achievement) achieved.
Indicator 5 : One-Stop Shops piloted.
Value
quantitative or 0                        3               N/A             3
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/01/2009                 04/30/2013                      08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Target 100 percent achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Municipal performance improvements.
Value
quantitative or 0%                       25%             30%             96%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/01/2009                 04/30/2013      04/30/2013 08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        See PDO indicator.
achievement)
                MDLF performance satisfactory as measured by meeting targets it defines
Indicator 7 :
                in the Annual Work Plan
Value
                Satisfactory             Satisfactory    N/A             Satisfactory
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/01/2009                 04/30/2013                      08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Target fully achieved.
achievement)
                Procedures for operation and maintenance are established and piloted in at
Indicator 8 :
                least 5 municipalities.
Value
quantitative or No O&M procedures 5 municipalities N/A                   10 municipalities
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/01/2009                 04/30/2013                      08/31/2013
Comments
                Target achieved by 200 percent. Coaching on the use of the manual was
(incl. %
                ongoing at the time of finalizing the ICR.
achievement)
Indicator 9 : Direct project beneficiaries (of which female beneficiaries).
Value
                                                            4,800,000    2,117,160
quantitative or N/A                      N/A
                                                            (49%)        (49%)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/01/2009                                    04/30/2013 08/31/2013
Comments        Achieved 44 percent. Core indicator added in March 2012. The ISR
(incl. %        expects 4.8 million beneficiaries, but this was explained by the team as a
achievement) typo as this number surpasses the total population of WBG.
Indicator 10 : Roads rehabilitated (km).
Value
quantitative or 0                        N/A                300          310
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/01/2009                                    04/30/2013 08/31/2013
Comments
                Target 103 percent achieved. Core indicator added during project
(incl. %
                restructuring in March 2012.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                    Actual
      Date ISR
No.                 DO                       IP                     Disbursements
      Archived
                                                                    (USD millions)
1     12/23/2009    Satisfactory            Satisfactory            0.00
2     06/14/2010    Moderately Satisfactory Satisfactory            0.14
3     01/14/2011    Moderately Satisfactory Satisfactory            7.88
4     09/30/2011    Satisfactory            Satisfactory            15.56
5     04/27/2012    Satisfactory            Satisfactory            21.58
6     12/26/2012    Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory 29.14
7     01/09/2014    Satisfactory            Satisfactory            35.69
H. Restructuring (if any)
                         ISR Ratings Amount
              Board      at          Disbursed at
Restructuring                                      Reason for Restructuring
              Approved Restructuring Restructuring
Date(s)                                            & Key Changes Made
              PDO Change             in USD
                         DO    IP
                                     millions
                                                   To provide Additional
03/06/2012    N          S     S     21.58         Financing for the project and
                                                   adjust PDO indicator targets.
                                                   To extend the closing date
04/26/2013    N          S     MS    33.74         by four months to
                                                   08/31/2013.

I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country context
1.      The economic climate in the West Bank and Gaza (WBG) had deteriorated
dramatically since the second intifada in 2000. Continuing restrictions on movement and
access by the Government of Israel (GOI) had caused a shift from growth led by investment
and the private sector, with the economy growing at about 6 percent per year, to one sustained
mainly by government spending and significant inflows of donor aid. Per capita gross
domestic product had declined by a cumulative 13 percent between 2000 and 2008.
Unemployment was rising and stood at about 21 percent in the West Bank and 42 percent in
Gaza. Although data on poverty were limited, there were clear indications that overall poverty
in both the West Bank and Gaza Strip had risen since 2000.

2.      The Palestinian territories of the West Bank (population 2.35 million) and Gaza
(population 1.5 million) had been effectively split since June 2007. Following the 2006
elections a Hamas-led government was formed and in response many donors withdrew their
assistance to the Palestinian Authority (PA), while the GOI intensified its economic and
security restrictions. In June 2007, Hamas took control of Gaza by force, and President Abbas
responded by dissolving the government and setting in place a caretaker government of
technocrats, which continued to provide basic services in Gaza through PA civil servants. The
international community had restored its full cooperation with the PA in Ramallah, while
Gaza was isolated by a strict closure policy by the GOI. The continued deterioration of
conditions in Gaza led to a widening political, social, and economic gap between the West
Bank and the Gaza Strip.

Sector context
3.     The key issue facing Palestinian local governments (LGs) was to ensure adequate
municipal service provision to the largely urban population in the face of an eroding revenue
base and a crippling financial and economic crisis. Municipalities predate the establishment of
the PA and have historically been responsible for the provision of a variety of infrastructure
and services: electricity and water, solid waste management, roads, parks and recreation,
slaughter houses, markets, building schools and health clinics.

4.      Prior to the year 2000, 90 percent of municipal budgets were derived from local
revenue collection. Over the 8 years preceding project appraisal of the MDP, municipal
budgets had declined by 31 percent. Military incursions had led to sizable losses in municipal
assets, which in turn had negatively affected service delivery. Low levels of municipal
revenue generation had also been exacerbated by poor municipal management practices, with
a growing culture of non-payment for services provided by municipalities. Non-payment of
electricity bills by the municipalities to the Israeli Electricity Company resulted in deductions
in the clearance revenues transferred from GOI to the PA, recorded as net lending.




                                               1
5.      Border closures had led to a near collapse of municipal services in Gaza. The
impoverishment of the population and the near absence of private sector activities meant that
municipalities were unable to collect taxes and fees for service provision. They had
accumulated debts to suppliers and arrears in salary payments, and mounting unpaid
electricity bills. Substantial improvements were needed across all areas of service provision.

Response of the Palestinian Authority
6.      The PA, with substantial support from the international community, had articulated a
national development agenda in its Palestinian Reform and Development Plan (PRDP, 2008-
2010) in December 2007. The PRDP recognized that local governments needed to be better
managed and more accountable to provide effective services to their citizens. It highlighted
the need to build the operational, administrative, and financial management capacity of local
governments and called for new legislation to clarify and regulate the relationship between
central and local governments and to establish a policy framework which promotes fiscal
autonomy and discipline at the local level.

7.       The Ministry of Local Government (MOLG) was taking the lead on policy
formulation and oversight of the LG sector, while the Municipal Development and Lending
Fund (MDLF) was charged with implementing PA policies. The PA had made significant
strides in laying down the foundation for reforms to systems for municipal financial
management and accounting practices which would enable them to better manage and account
for their tight budgets. Building on these gains, the two-phase MDP would contribute to
building better managed and more accountable LGs that are able to provide improved services
to their citizens through a stronger social contract.

Rationale for involvement of the World Bank
8.      The World Bank had a long history of support to Palestinian local governance and
held the convening power to effectively integrate and coordinate donor and PA interventions
in the sector. The Bank was the Technical Advisor for the Sector Working Group on
Municipal Development and Local Governance (co-Chaired by Denmark and the MOLG), the
local aid coordination structure.

9.      The World Bank’s main focus in the WBG was to assist the Palestinians in their
aspirations for institutional sustainability and future statehood. Drawing on its global
experience, the World Bank had supported a series of operations to contribute to LG
development. In partnership with key donors (KfW - the German Bank for Development,
AFD – The French Development Agency, Netherlands, Sweden, and Denmark), the Bank
supported the establishment of the MDLF in 2005, the implementing agency for the MDP. As
such, the Bank was in a unique position to assist the PA in implementing its MDP.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
10.     The objective of Phase 1 of the MDP was to improve municipal management practices
for better transparency. This was the necessary condition for improving service delivery in
subsequent phases. The key performance indicators were as follows:




                                              2
     (i) Percentage of municipalities that graduate up the performance category in which they
         are currently classified.
    (ii) Percentage of municipalities that apply at least 2 public disclosure methods (publicly
         available Strategic Development and Investment Plans (SDIPs), annual external audits,
         project related data, municipal budgets, and performance rankings).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
11.    The PDO and key indicators were not revised but targets for both indicators were
revised upwards in connection with the approval of Additional Financing (AF) in March 2012
(see Datasheet and section 2.3 for details).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
12.    The main beneficiaries were the populations of the municipalities of the WBG, which
would benefit from improved municipal management practices and from direct investments in
sub-projects. The municipal administrations would benefit from support to improved
management and service delivery capacity through training, technical assistance, and
equipment. The MDLF would benefit from capacity building to improve program
implementation.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
13.    The MDP was designed as a national program with contributions from the World
Bank’s Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank (TFGWB), other Funding Partners (FPs) and
the PA 1. The financing tables in Annex 1 provide a detailed breakdown of initial financing
estimates and actual disbursements. The components are presented below as in the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD) with the initial contribution from the TFGWB, as submitted for
approval by the Board of the World Bank.

Window 1: Municipal Grants for Capital Investment
(Total: US$46.16 million. TFGWB: US7.6 million)

14.     Window 1 allocated performance-based grants to municipalities for capital
investments or operating expenditures for service provision. This investment component
financed sub-projects in municipalities based on SDIPs supported under Window 3, as an
incentive for improved municipal performance. A grant allocation formula was designed to
incentivize better management practices, based on population (40 percent), needs (20
percent), and performance (40 percent). Municipalities’ performance was ranked using 12 key
indicators of good municipal management, provided in Table 1 below, which shows the initial
ranking of municipalities carried out in 2009 based on data for 2007. Window 1 was designed


1
 Denmark (Danida) and Sweden (Sida) had committed to co-financing through a World Bank-administered
Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF). France (AFD), Germany (GIZ and KfW), the Netherlands, and the PA were
also expected to provide co-financing. All co-financing was parallel in terms of the definitions of Annex A of OP
14.20 – Cofinancing, but with the World Bank holding fiduciary responsibility for managing the TFGWB and
MDTF and all financing contributing to achieving the PDO as measured through the Key Indicators.



                                                       3
to be implemented in two cycles of two years each, with updated ranking of municipalities
after each cycle. The higher a municipality ranked after each evaluation (with support
provided under Windows 3 and 4 for the municipalities to move up the rankings), the larger
its allocation for sub-project investments.

                       Table 1: Performance criteria and initial rankings.
   Rank                           Indicators of Performance                             Number of
                                                                                       municipalities
   1-A    1. Current account surplus (for 2 consecutive years)                              0
          2. Unqualified external audit
          3. Integrated financial management system
   2-B    4. Operational account surplus                                                     0
          5. Fixed assets register
          6. Maintenance plan in place
   3-C    7. Municipal development/investment plan                                          16
          8. Financial accounting policies & procedures in place
          9. External audit
   4-D    10. Capital budget (approved and executed, properly submitted to the MOLG)        90
   5-E    11. Recurrent budget (approved and properly submitted to the MOLG)                26
   6-F    12. No budgetary information                                                      0

Window 2: Support to Municipal Innovations and Efficiency
(Total: US$3.7 million. TFGWB: US$0.7 million)

15.    This Window promoted learning and innovation to promote municipal development,
including implementation of MOLG policy decisions.

   (a) Strengthening newly amalgamated local governments (US$2.8 million, entirely
       financed by Denmark). This activity promoted the amalgamation of LGs and funded
       the expansion of their services, building on lessons learned of an ongoing Danish-
       financed operation in Jenin governorate. Under the MDP-I, additional new areas in the
       West Bank were to be included.
   (b) Piloting innovations to improve municipal revenue, responsiveness, and efficiency
       (Total: US$0.9 million. TFGWB: US$0.7 million). (i) Improved energy efficiency of
       municipal service delivery in 3 to 4 large municipalities (Total: US$0.7, fully funded
       by TFGWB), and (ii) Municipal service centers or One-Stop Shops (OSS) to promote
       municipal transparency, accountability, citizen-responsiveness and public participation
       (US$0.2 million, no TFGWB funding).

Window 3: Capacity Building for municipalities and the MDLF
(Total: US$5.43. TFGWB: US$0.6 million)

For Municipalities (Total: US$5.23 million. TFGWB: US$0.55)
16.     This Window would provide demand-driven technical assistance to municipalities to
graduate to higher performance categories in the performance ranking system, with training
targets determined by the performance ranking of municipalities. The Window built on



                                                  4
elements piloted under the Local Government Capacity Building Project (LGCBP, 2005-
2012) under implementation at appraisal.

      (a) Improved Financial Management (US$3.7 million). Support would be provided for: (i)
          Roll-out of the financial management manual to minimum 50 municipalities not yet
          targeted by LGCBP, (ii) Asset registration and valuation support to a minimum of 30
          municipalities, (iii) Roll-out of the municipal budgeting procedures to a minimum of
          20 municipalities, (iv) Promotion of municipal external audits, (v) Office and IT
          equipment for a minimum of 30 municipalities, (vi) Roll-out of an Integrated Financial
          Management Information System (IFMIS) for a minimum of 20 municipalities not
          covered under the LGCBP.
      (b) Strategic Development and Investment Plans (US$1.26 million). Support to minimum
          40 municipalities to develop simple SDIPs with the participation of communities and
          relevant stakeholders. The methodology was to draw on (i) the manual and procedures
          being tested by the SDIP working group led by the MOLG and supported by the GIZ,
          as well as (ii) lessons learned from the MDLF pilot project in the Jenin area under
          Danish financing.
      (c) Improved Operations and Maintenance (O&M) plans and procurement (US$0.27
          million), including: (i) Development of O&M guidelines and a procedural manual, and
          (ii) Piloting use of the manual in 5 municipalities.

For MDLF (Total: US$0.2 million. TFGWB: US$0.05)
17.    This activity was to strengthen the MDLF’s capacity to implement the MDP and
provide support for human resource development and institutional building based on the
MDLF’s Medium Term Strategic Plan and its Human Resources Development Plan.

Window 4: MDP Management
(Total: US$6.64 million. TFGWB: US$ 1.1 million)

18.      This activity would finance implementation of the program:

      (a) MDLF Management Fee (Total: US$4.34 million. TFGWB: US$0.7 million). All FPs
          paid a 7 percent administration fee on their grants to the MDLF.
      (b) Monitoring and Evaluation (Total: US$0.2 million. TFGWB: US$0.05 million).
          Institutional compliance audit fees, a municipal infrastructure survey at the end of
          Phase 1, client and citizen satisfaction assessments and technical audit fees.
      (c) Outreach and Communications (Total: US$0.3 million. TFGWB: US$0.15 million).
          Design and implementation of a communication and outreach program around the
          MDP, especially on the Grant Allocation Mechanism (GAM).
      (d) Local Technical Consultants (LTC) (Total: US$1.8 million. TFGWB: US$0.2 million).
          LTC support to municipalities which require additional assistance in identifying,
          applying for, and implementing sub-projects.

1.6 Revised Components
19.    The components were not revised.




                                                5
1.7 Other significant changes
20.     On March 6, 2012, Additional Financing (AF) of US$2 million was approved by the
World Bank in response to a request from the PA as the MDP was exceeding its Key
Performance Indicator targets. The AF would be used to finance implementation of expanded
activities to scale up the project’s impact and development effectiveness primarily through
support for additional grants for municipal infrastructure (an estimated 98.3 percent of the
AF), and to finance cost overruns to complete some original project activities (an estimated
1.7 percent of the AF). Due to political constraints, the Netherlands were not able to provide
the funding for MDP-I anticipated at appraisal. On October 28, 2010, Belgium signed a
financing agreement with the PA for the financing of Cycle 2 only. The funding per cycle for
all FPs is presented in Annex 1. A second restructuring was approved on April 26, 2013 to
extend the closing date by four months to accommodate a delayed start to several capacity
building packages, and some anticipated delays in a few civil works packages.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
21.     Preparation of the MDP was led by the MDLF, charged with implementing PA
policies in the municipal sector, and with support from the World Bank and other FPs. The
MDLF developed the MDP to operationalize the PRDP’s goals of promoting local
development. The preparation process drew upon the experiences of several donor-supported
operations in the WBG, including especially the LGCBP, the First and Second Emergency
Municipal Services Rehabilitation Projects (EMSRP I&II, 2003-2006 and 2007-2011
respectively), and the Local Development Project. With the MDLF in the lead, FPs would
provide assistance to designing specific aspects of the project, depending on their area of
expertise and interest: for example, GIZ supported the design of the capacity building and the
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) aspects and OSS, Denmark championed the institutional
assessment and amalgamation, KfW assisted in technical aspects of sub-projects, while the
World Bank supported the development of the performance-based grant mechanism as well as
fiduciary and safeguards procedures and the energy efficiency pilot. There was strong sector
coordination through the existing municipal development and LG sector working group with
the MOLG, the MDLF, and FPs also participating regularly.

22.     The project marked a strong will by all stakeholders to consolidate efforts, based on
substantial sector knowledge and detailed background studies on service delivery and
municipal finances. With outset in the establishment of the MDLF and the introduction of a
grant transfer system under the EMSRP I&II, with allocations based on population, the MDP
introduced an element of performance in the allocation of grants for sub-projects to improve
service delivery. The MDP design included technical assistance for the municipalities to help
them meet the performance criteria. The two-phase MDP with two cycles in each phase had
focus on improving first municipal performance under MDP-I and then service delivery under
MDP-II. The formula for performance-based grants was designed to create incentives for
municipalities to progress towards creditworthiness in the longer run (starting at the end of
MDP-II), which would ultimately allow municipalities to access resources from the market
for investments to enhance service delivery. Each sub-project was to be based on a detailed
needs assessment through the SDIPs or other local consultative process.



                                              6
23.     The analysis of lessons was thorough and well presented in the PAD. The most
important lessons from previous operations in the WBG and from global best practices were:
(a) transparency and clarity of implementation arrangements, as essential for a successful
municipal development program, was assured through contractual distribution of roles in the
Operational Manual (OM) and communications campaign to make the municipalities and
local population aware of the performance criteria; (b) investment grants were linked to
measurable performance standards while emphasizing capacity building aspects, since this
was known to improve LG accountability, transparency and service delivery; (c) the
programming tools and rules of the game were clear, allowing the program to target a large
number of municipalities. The MDP was designed to ensure that all 132 municipalities 2
adhere to the discipline and rules-based approach made explicit in the GAM; and (d) the goals
were realistic, but with clearly defined incremental improvements through the ranking of
municipalities, allowing them to be achieved within existing constraints.

24.     The rationale for the Bank’s involvement was to complement technical and financial
support provided by other partners, in line with its comparative advantage. This included: (a)
drawing on experience from previous operations and dialogue, bringing in global experiences
in designing performance-based grant systems, and (b) providing procedures which could be
acceptable to all FPs. Having the Bank Task Team Leader (TTL) based in the country office
was an additional advantage, allowing the Bank to participate in dialogue on a daily basis.

25.     Risk assessment and mitigation was adequate. The main risks were correctly identified
as project-external due to the socio-political conditions in Palestine and the project was
designed to be sufficiently flexible to accommodate changes to context, and was based on a
strong ownership of sub-projects and technical assistance at the local level. For example, the
collective FPs were able to continue to provide funding for the project throughout, in spite of
the precarious situation between the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, and sub-projects were
implemented in both areas.

26.     The quality at entry was satisfactory, with well-defined interventions clearly laid out
in the PAD, and with the MDP-I forming a self-contained first phase of the PAs overall MDP
developed by the MDLF. The hierarchy of objectives was very well developed and baselines
for higher-level objectives, PDO, and intermediate-level results were presented in the PAD.
The results chain was clearly established with outputs leading to outcomes, and the MDP-I
was designed to set in place improved management tools, as a first step towards improving
service delivery which would come later in MDP-II. Responsibility for project coordination
and management was placed in the MDLF, the PA’s implementation arm for municipal
development, and which had satisfactorily implemented several operations in the LG sector.
Preparation benefited from inputs and excellent coordination of all FPs. While the project was
a joint effort, there was no pooling of funds (separate accounts for each FP’s contributions),
but all FPs agreed to use World Bank procedures. The procurement plan for the first 18
months was available, and the division of roles between donors was clearly established, with
all FPs having staff in the field to accompany the project and some FPs (Denmark, GIZ)


2
 At the end of the MDP-I the total number of municipalities is 135 due to amalgamation of smaller LGUs into
municipalities.


                                                      7
having technical assistants based in the field. LTCs were contracted to provide support to the
municipalities on a daily basis, which was beyond the capacity of the MDLF.

27.     PA commitment was high as demonstrated by the willingness to have most of the LG
sector donors group together around a joint project. The LG sector featured prominently in the
PA’s development plans, and the PA was fully engaged in project preparation, confiding the
details of the development of the program to the MDLF.

28.     The PAD stated that the MDLF had the appropriate organizational structure in place
and that it had filled some of the key positions that were vacant at pre-appraisal (e.g., General
Director, Procurement Specialist, Public Relations Officer, and Capacity Building Manager).
The PAD should have been more forthright about the other key positions for the successful
implementation of the program that were still vacant (e.g. Procurement Manager,
Procurement Officer in Gaza, Municipal Finance Specialist and the Manager for Strategic
Development) and proposed concrete mitigation measures to assure smooth start-up of the
project. Finally, it should be noted that the estimate of project cost in the PAD varies from the
final project cost. This was essentially due to post-appraisal developments in donor
cofinancing (with Window 1 being scalable to accommodate funding changes), combined
with overestimation, at appraisal, of cost of some activities of Windows 2 and 3.

2.2 Implementation
29.    The TFGWB-funding was approved by the World Bank Board on September 17, 2009
and was declared effective on January 26, 2010. Between November 12, 2009, and October
28, 2010, agreements were signed with the PA for the financing of MDP-I by GIZ, KfW, and
AFD 3 and for the World Bank administered Multi-Donor Trust Fund (Danish and Swedish
Co-financing) for the equivalent of approximately EUR 33 million (see financing details in
Annex 1).

Cycle 1
30.     Startup of the project was marked by some difficulties, mostly due to unfilled
procurement positions in the MDLF. This initially slowed down the procurement, but as the
positions were filled within 6 months of effectiveness, implementation generally picked up.
However, the fact that the MDLF staff in the West Bank were prevented from traveling to
Gaza due to security restrictions posed challenges to effective coordination. The MDLF Gaza
office initially lacked key skills for project implementation (e.g. social and planning skills),
and the fact that Gaza City municipality received the largest share of MDP funding of any
municipality also meant that, although relatively well staffed, the capacity of the municipality
was stretched in relation to MDP. The LTCs hired to assist the municipalities also faced
difficulties to adequately support the municipalities in Gaza. The World Bank staff based in



3
  GIZ on November 12, 2009; KfW on December 6, 2009; AFD on April 6, 2010, the co-financed MDTF
administered by the World Bank on behalf of Sweden and Denmark on June 10, 2010.




                                                  8
Gaza were able to help overcome some of the shortcomings, and use of audio conferencing to
connect the two MDLF offices also helped mitigate the problems.

31.     It also took some time for municipalities to fully master the sub-project selection and
approval process. All 47 sub-project proposals from the first round of proposals were rejected
due to non-compliance with the proposal criteria and lack of understanding of public
participation requirement or World Bank safeguard policies as “safety-related issues.” The
MDLF conducted a reorientation workshop with sessions on public participation, social
safeguards, capacity building, and fiduciary aspects, stepped up its field visits to
municipalities and adopted a more proactive approach to technical assistance for
municipalities via phone calls or visits by municipal staff to the MDLF offices. In addition,
municipalities, on the advice of the MDLF, held participation workshops at differing times to
increase participation, especially of women. Training was also provided to municipalities on
gender aspects and MDLF as well as the LTCs followed up on cases where women and youth
were not represented in the SDIP process. In the second round, the MDLF received 221 sub-
project applications, of which only 35 were rejected.

32.      In Cycle 1 the MDLF approved 120 applications for municipal capacity building (75
for Financial Policies and Procedure Manuals (FPPM), 41 for SDIP, 4 for Fixed Assets
Registration and Valuation (FARV)). Each municipality could only receive one package, to
avoid overloading municipalities with implementation of several new processes and
concurrent changes in the administrations. In addition, targeted budget preparation support
was provided to 26 municipalities ranked in the lowest ranking category “E” to help them to
graduate up the rankings. The capacity building packages for municipalities under Window 3
initially ran behind schedule, in part because municipalities had difficulty correctly
completing the application forms but the MDLF held targeted orientation sessions to
municipalities on how to complete application forms for capacity building packages and by
June 2010, 120 municipalities had been selected for capacity building support.

33.     During 2010, the project provided procurement training to the MDLF procurement
agents and technical staff and to municipalities in both the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. The
project also implemented regular municipal learning days, which contributed to enhancing
coherence, coordination, and synergy among municipalities, especially in Gaza. By October
2010, the MDLF had hired additional staff which largely helped overcome the constraints,
although the procurement for capacity building packages had experienced significant delays
compared to the timeline, due to the high volume of work. By the Mid-Term Review (MTR)
an additional Community-Based Planner was hired to the MDLF in Gaza. Project
implementation delay in Gaza was also reduced by the increasingly effective support of the
LTCs and through intensive follow up by the MDLF team, and weekly audio conferences
between the two MDLF offices in Ramallah (West Bank) and Gaza.

Mid-Term Review
34.     The MTR took place in May 2011. The World Bank was part of a group of FPs (with
Denmark and KFW) that carried out a technical and environmental assessment of 20 sub-
projects in 10 municipalities, including in Gaza. The MTR was also used to follow up on
pending issues, such as the delay of the OSS activity. The OSS pilot had experienced some



                                              9
delay resulting from difficulties in finding a qualified consultant in Gaza. Once the consultant
was recruited, he proved very useful, and the presence of an MDLF staff in Gaza well-versed
in IT also meant the pilot could be concluded successfully. The assessment of existing OSS in
the West Bank was carried out during the first half of 2011, with a program for roll-out under
MDP-I Cycle 2 developed by the MDLF in February 2011. Before the MTR, the energy
efficiency pilot was already well under way with energy audits carried out in targeted
municipalities and equipment procured and installed.

35.     According to the project design presented in the PAD, Gaza recurrent expenditure
financing would be revised when the conditions allowed. However, the project was marked by
difficult circumstances in Gaza throughout, and so it was decided to maintain the possibility
to finance recurrent expenditure in Gaza, up to a maximum of 20 percent of allocations. The
MTR was used to review and agree on the plan formulated by the MDLF on how the
amalgamated municipalities would be assisted to enable them to receive funding under
Cycle 2.

36.      The MTR was also the opportunity for the Belgian Technical Cooperation (BTC) to
formally engage with the project. By the MTR, the approximate commitment amounts for
Cycle 2 amounts were known for AFD (EUR 5M), the World Bank and KFW (who would
examine possibility for AF), and Sweden (US$5M). The Bank followed up pro-actively on
this, as recorded in aide-memoires and Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs) and
was supporting the MDLF starting in December 2010 to make sure contributions were known
before Cycle 2 was foreseen to start in June 2011. The financing of all FPs was eventually
confirmed by October 25, 2011 during a joint FP mission.

Cycle 2
37.     Cycle 2 should have started in June 2011, but was delayed until the end of October of
the same year due to municipal elections, to allow the new councils to be in place before
implementing capacity building packages and assure ownership of the process. In Cycle 2 the
MDLF approved applications from 98 municipalities for capacity building (21 for FPPM, 49
for SDIP, 52 for SDIP update, 28 for FARV). In the second cycle, municipalities could
benefit from several packages if they had proven capable of improving performance during
Cycle 1. The MDLF provided training to newly elected mayors and council members on the
legal framework, management and administrative issues, financial issues, technical issues and
gender issues. To improve sub-project preparation process and quality, the Terms of
Reference (TOR) for LTCs were improved to specifically include support to this process. The
TOR were also updated to strengthen environmental monitoring.

38.     Additional Financing from the TFGWB was requested by the PA and approved by the
World Bank on March 6, 2012 to scale up the project, which was performing well with PDO
indicators exceeding their targets. On January 27, 2013, the PA requested extension of the
project closing date from April 30 to August 31 in order to accommodate a delayed start to
several capacity building packages due to the elections, and some anticipated delays in a few
civil works packages, especially in Gaza due to the November 2012 hostilities, which
involved incursion by the Israeli Defense Force.




                                              10
39.    At project closing, almost all activities have been completed. No municipalities
received support to implement IFMIS, as the piloting under the LGCBP took longer than
expected and no municipality was ready to graduate to “A” ranking, for which IFMIS is a
condition. Also, the PA counterpart funding for 10 approved sub-projects was pending; these
sub-projects have not been implemented.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization
Design
40.     The project had a well-defined hierarchy of objectives and the PDO of MDP-I was
adequately focusing on improvements in management practices and transparency, with two
PDO indicators in place to measure this. Baselines were in place for all indicators. The results
hierarchy was further very well defined, with clearly articulated links to higher-level sector
goals in the PAD. Since the implementation of a performance-based grant for municipalities
was new in the WBG, the PDO indicator targets were set modestly and following discussions
and agreement between all FPs. There were no targets for sub-project outputs at appraisal due
to the demand-driven nature of the investments, but the MDLF designed a database to keep
track of expected outputs based on data from sub-project screening templates.

Implementation
41.     During implementation, reporting on progress by the MDLF was generally timely and
precise, which was made possible by the Project Grant Management Information System
(PGMIS) in place in the MDLF and the results database. Indicators were updated in ISRs
when information was available. Updated implementation plans were provided quarterly with
the Interim Financial Reports (IFRs). The MDLF provided (and continues to provide) semi-
annual progress reports to all its donors covering all financing managed by the agency. No
separate reporting was prepared for individual FPs, which facilitated information sharing and
sector coordination. Additional independent surveys were carried out to rank the
municipalities at the end of each cycle of Window 1. Bank ISRs were filed regularly and gave
accounted well for project progress.

Utilization
42.     Each semi-annual joint donor mission would include detailed review of progress,
including per Window 1 sub-project, which was always preceded by a detailed presentation of
progress by the MDLF, drawing on the MDLF M&E database and PGMIS, which assured
that updated and accurate information was available. The availability of data made it possible
to solve problems as they arose, including minor technical problems for sub-projects. After
Cycle 1 the ranking survey determined the performance-part of the grant for Cycle 2 and was
used to adjust the support given to municipalities, to help the maximum number of
municipalities move up the rankings. The ranking exercise after Cycle 2 served to evaluate the
achievement of PDO at the end of the MDP-I but was expanded to also serve as baseline for
MDP-II, incorporating additional criteria developed for the follow-on operation. The
beneficiary satisfaction survey also served to improve the ranking mechanism for MDP-II by
adding specific indicators on quality and coverage of services. The database analysis on
service provision in municipalities, carried out for the project by the Palestinian Central
Bureau of Statistics (see section 3.2) has also contributed to improving data availability for
sector monitoring, which is otherwise quite scarce.


                                              11
43.     When the AF was appraised for approval by the World Bank (approved in March
2012), the project was overachieving on the two PDO indicators. PDO indicator 1 had already
reached 68 percent against the target of 25 percent while PDO indicator 2 had achieved 68
percent for the target of 50 percent. During negotiations with the MDLF it was agreed to
adjust the targets upwards, to 30 percent for PDO indicator 1 and 60 percent for PDO
indicator 2. From the Bank’s point of view this was a too low an increase compared to the
results already achieved, especially for PDO indicator 1. However, understandably the other
FPs did not consider it necessary to adjust targets since their bilateral engagements were
based on the original targets; also the AF brought by the Bank was only US$2 million out of
the total MDP-I funding of about US$75 million. Since preserving unity in the donor group
was found to be important, it was therefore agreed during negotiations for the AF to make
only minor adjustments. Unfortunately even these adjustments were not reflected in revised
targets in ISRs, which they should have been. Also, the target for the indicator on total
number of beneficiaries, which was added at the time of restructuring, should have been set
more realistically and entered correctly (480,000 instead of 4.8 million in the ISR, while the
project had already achieved 2.1 million beneficiaries).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
44.     There was only one project OM for the MDP-I, which followed World Bank
procedures and was used by the MDLF and all FPs. This meant that the MDLF did not have
to deal with a different set of procedures for each FP. However, in terms of Operational
Policy/Bank Procedure (OP/BP) 14.20 on Cofinancing, financing was parallel; each FP signed
separate financing agreements directly with the PA 4, funds were channeled through separate
project accounts, and funds were disbursed against discrete expenditure items. For Window 1,
the municipal allocations and sub-projects were determined first and then the MDLF
attributed each sub-project to a specific donor’s funds. That way, each activity financed by the
MDP-I was always attributed to a specific source of funding, with the fiduciary responsibility
placed with the donor financing the activity.

Safeguards compliance 5
45.     Supervision of compliance for all MDP-I funding was part of each mission. Further to
the description below, cofinancing donors confirmed that no other significant safeguards
issues came to their attention. World Bank safeguards procedures were complied with for the
MDP-I.

46.     Environmental safeguards. MDP-I was classified as a category "B" project and
triggered OP/BP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment. An Environmental Management
Framework (EMF) was prepared and disclosed before project appraisal and was used by the
MDLF during implementation to screen sub-projects proposed by municipalities. Sub-project



4
  The exception being the MDTF, receiving funds from Denmark and Sweden and managed by the World Bank,
which signed the financing agreement with the PA.
5
  OP 4.09 (Pest Management) was triggered at appraisal in anticipation that some municipalities might request
procurement of pest management substances and/or equipment, which was part of eligible expenditures.
Procedures were developed in the EMP to treat these cases. However, during implementation, no sub-projects
were implemented that necessitated application of OP4.09.


                                                     12
specific EMPs were prepared and included as part of the bidding documents. Implementation
of environmental mitigation measures was initially underfunded, which was highlighted by
the World Bank during supervision missions and was corrected. During implementation of
sub-projects, the MDLF, and municipal engineers, and LTCs closely monitored the
contractors' implementation of the environmental and safety provisions of the EMP. Overall,
environmental safeguards compliance during project implementation is rated "satisfactory".

47.     Social safeguards. The Bank’s Policy on Involuntary Land Acquisition and
Resettlement (OP 4.12) did not apply to the MDP1 since all sub-project level works were
carried out on state lands, therefore not affecting private lands nor livelihoods (either
permanently or temporarily). The project included a clear negative list as part of the OM,
which clarified to the project proponents the mechanism by which to ensure that all sub
project level activities would be carried out on state lands. During the initial phase of MDPI,
weaknesses in counterpart and municipality capacity to identify and manage social risks were
evident especially in areas such as understanding some of the basic principles/tenets of the
Bank’s safeguards policies and broader social development issues. Some of the key gaps in
understanding included the value of, and protocol for developing complaints handling
processes; how voluntary land donation processes should be carried out, including on the
documentation for ensuring no coercion is involved; and also the challenges (especially for
the municipalities) associated with effectively carrying out screening at the sub project level.
To address this, several formal and informal capacity building sessions related to the above
and broader social risk topics were carried out by the Bank starting in December 2012 and
throughout the remainder of the project life cycle. Increased client awareness was noted over
time (i.e., client halted the Wadi Salqa sub-project contract due to contested land ownership as
a direct result of the trainings). The client also undertook the initiative to design and pilot a
grievance redress mechanism in three Gaza municipalities which will be fully rolled out in
MDP2. The mechanism includes contacts for complaints, advertisement of the mechanism, a
log to track complaints, defined the response time, etc. For the remaining municipalities,
LTCs monitored complaints through weekly reports. The overall Social Safeguards rating is
Satisfactory.

Fiduciary compliance
48.     Financial management: All financial management was handled by the MDLF.
Quarterly and annual financial reporting was done by the MDLF to each FP in collective
reports with separate sections on each FP’s funds. External audits were carried out jointly on
all project accounts by the same auditor. Financial management has been steadily rated as
"Satisfactory" since Board approval, except for periodically in 2011 due to problems
providing accurate disbursement projections and delays with providing an internal audit
strategy to FPs.

49.     The external auditor has always issued unqualified “clean” audit opinion on the annual
audited financial statements for the MDP-I and for the consolidated financial statements of the
MDLF. IFRs have been audited by an independent external auditor, which has always issued
unqualified “clean” audit opinions on the MDLF’s compliance, except for one IFR for the
first quarter of 2011. The qualified opinion concerned compliance with the grant agreement,
since the MDLF did not submit the cumulative annual report for the preceding calendar year



                                               13
(i.e. 2010) to the FPs within the required 60 days period. No accountability issues or issues of
fraud or corruption were raised. World Bank financial management procedures were complied
with for all FP’s funds.

50.    Procurement: Each donor was responsible for conducting pre- and post-reviews as
applicable for the contracts they financed. Procurement activities at the central level under
Windows 2, 3 and 4 were directly carried out by the MDLF, while all procurement under
demand-driven sub-projects (Window 1 and part of Window 2) were implemented by
municipalities with the assistance and oversight of the MDLF or/and LTCs. This built on
previous projects having successfully piloted procurement by municipalities under the
supervision of the MDLF.

51.     Project implementation initially experienced delays attributable to the lack of
procurement staff. For this reason procurement was rated unsatisfactory in the second ISR
(June 2010). Under Cycle 1, the lack of adequate participation to tenders was noted for
consultants’ services assignments under Window 3. The Bank advised the MDLF to consider
repackaging of the capacity building assignments into larger contracts including multiple
clusters of municipalities to increase competition. Also, delays in implementation of works
packages occurred due to the scheduling of the works packages under the municipal grants.
The Bank advised the MDLF to consider repackaging of similar works within each
municipality and to publish tenders more continuously to avoid problems with contractors’
implementation capacity.

52.     Throughout project implementation, the procurement capacity of the MDLF, LTCs,
and the municipalities has improved. The MDLF established an effective system to monitor
all procurement aspects of Window 1 sub-projects. As a result, procurement performance
under MDP improved; its rating was upgraded, as of September 2011 to satisfactory and
remained so until the closing of the project. Procurement compliance was regularly monitored
during the project, including through 4 post-reviews of Bank-financed activities; no major
noncompliance was noted. Bank procurement procedures were complied with for all contracts
financed by the World Bank. Other donors conducted regular procurement reviews on the
contracts they financed. Cofinancing donors confirmed that no other procurement compliance
issues came to their attention. World Bank procurement procedures were complied with for
the MDP-I.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
53.     The reforms to municipal management supported by the MDP-I continue to receive
strong PA and FP support (including continued funding) under the MDP-II. On May 23, 2013
the World Bank approved US$10 million from the TFGWB for the MDP-II (out of foreseen
total donor funding of US$75 million). Starting in 2013, the MOLG has a budget line for
MDP activities, with NIS 20 million (US$5.5 million) allocated plus a commitment to provide
an additional NIS 10 million (US$2.8 million) as counterpart funding. New donors have
joined the MDP-II, namely the EU, the Netherlands (through the International Cooperation
Agency of the Association of Netherland Municipalities), and Switzerland (through SDC, the
Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation).




                                              14
54.     Building on the substantial municipal performance improvements under MDP-I,
MDP-II will place more emphasis on supporting and monitoring progress on service delivery,
in line with the initial concept for the incremental two-phase MDP. While the MDP-I
performance ranking mechanism included indicators covering key interventions related to
tools, the performance ranking mechanism has been upgraded for MDP-II to also incorporate
measures of quality and coverage of services.

55.     Some ISRs during Cycle 1 mentioned that sub-project quality appeared to be mixed in
terms of preparation of grant applications, supporting documents, design, and construction.
This was especially the case in Gaza. However, this was corrected during implementation and
transition arrangement to post-completion operation of sub-projects financed by the MDP-I is
assured as verified by the technical audit and usability assessment, which confirms that 97
percent of sub-projects are operational. This corroborates the impression of FPs from
numerous site visits during missions. Starting in MDP-I Cycle 2, sub-projects were also
accompanied by an O&M plan, giving good reassurance that sub-projects will continue to be
operational.

56.     Overall, the MDP-II continues where the MDP-I left off, with investment funding for
sub-projects as a performance incentive and continued support to the municipalities to
improve performance and move up the rankings. Under MDP-II, the percentage allocated to
the performance criteria in the transfer formula has been substantially increased to further
capitalize on this successful incentive program. MDP-II is also paying particular attention to
O&M issues and will start rolling out specific O&M capacity building packages.
Implementation of these will be requirements for most municipalities to continue to graduate
up the rankings. The inclusion of O&M in economic and financial screening of sub-projects
also provides some measure of certainty that these costs will be covered, in spite of municipal
budgets generally being limited. MDP-II also re-introduces the IFMIS capacity building
package to assure that the best performing municipalities will be able to graduate to
performance ranking “A”. Finally, although municipalities now have much better capacity to
regularly update their FARV and SDIP, some of the main tools of municipal management,
some will continue to need support going forward; this is provided by the MDP-II. Finally,
the MDP-II continues to support amalgamated municipalities – the current amalgamation
process has resulted in the formation of eight new municipalities.

57.     Regarding the two pilots supported under Window 2, they both had satisfactory
outcomes (presented in section 3.2). The OSSs are being rolled out under the MDP-II (as “e-
governance”), with funds allocated for 10-12 municipalities; this will contribute to improving
the transparency and quality of interaction between citizens and the municipalities. There is
now a municipal learning network on OSS (through the Association of Palestinian Local
Authorities). The energy efficiency pilot had high economic rates of return, with a simple
pay-back period of just over two years, and will also see continued roll-out under MDP-II
(mainstreamed into Window 1), based on a procurement manual developed with ESMAP
financing. New pilots supported under the MDP-II include activities in renewable energy
(with a focus on solar energy for public buildings) and support to local economic
development pilots selected through a call for proposals from municipalities.




                                              15
58.    A hindrance to continued improvements to the MDLF operation is the pending
approval of the MDLF law to confirm its role as the main channel for development funds and
technical assistance to the Local Government Units (LGUs) for the PA through which
additional PA funds could be transferred to LGUs. This is paramount for the MDLF to move
from a “project entity” to a national “spending center”. A study is ongoing on how to
implement the lending part of the MDLF (AFD funded). The draft was not yet available at the
time of finalizing this ICR. Other studies (World Bank funding) are being carried out on
municipal revenue generation and on municipalities and social accountability and will inform
MDP-II as they become available.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Relevance of Objectives: High
Relevance of Design and Implementation: Substantial

59.      The relevance of the MDP objectives remains high. The PA has made commitments to
increase funding to the MDP through the MDLF (although a very tight fiscal situation makes
it difficult to fulfill its obligations on time) and more donors are coming on board for the
MDP-II, since their financing objectives are aligned. The MDP fully supports the PNDP
(2011-2013), which builds upon the PRDP local government goals by emphasizing the
acceleration of fiscal decentralization and the promotion of community participation in local
government.

60.      The project's relevance to the World Bank Group's Interim Strategy Note (FY2012-
2014) falls within Pillar 1: "to strengthen the institutions of a future state to efficiently
manage public finances and ensure services to citizens." In particular, the project supports
Outcome 1.2: "Reinforced Public Administration targets LGUs’ management capacity as an
area of engagement", and Outcome 1.3: "Service delivery more responsive to users' needs
further reinforces the link between improved service delivery, accountability, and demand for
good governance." It does so by improving municipal performance through the
implementation of a performance based grant and municipal capacity building packages
focused on municipal finance, social accountability, and community based strategic planning.
Finally, MDP-financed capital infrastructure investments also support Pillar 2 by
"...Supporting the creation of an enabling environment for private sector led growth." The
project is also aligned with The Bank’s Middle East and North Africa Region’s strategic
priorities and contributes to its strategic pillars of Inclusion, Growth, and Governance.

61.      The World Bank 2009 Urban and Local Government Strategy (Systems of Cities) has
at its center a focus on the core elements of the city system. The MDP is fully aligned with the
objective of assisting cities and LGs in planning and financing service delivery, strengthening
urban governance, and making city management more effective. This is done by making sure
that provision of training and capacity building includes reforms that change the “rules of the
game,” using incentives and rule-based policy frameworks. The MDP is further cutting-edge
in benchmarking performance through data collection and dissemination.




                                              16
62.    The relevance of implementation and design is substantial. The project was designed
to achieve the development objective, with the sub-projects providing the right incentives
(along with the municipalities’ inherent will to improve services) for the municipalities to
move up the rankings, combined with adequate support from LTCs and with access to a menu
of capacity-building activities. The hierarchy of objectives in the overall MDP was further
relevant, with the MDP-I designed to facilitate improved municipal management, setting the
scene for more focus on improved service delivery under MDP-II.

63.     The project design and implementation had minor shortcomings, the noteworthy ones
of which related to: (a) a slightly optimistic implementation schedule for Cycle 1, as presented
in section 2.2; (b) target setting and revision for PDO indicators; and (c) provision of
counterpart funding. Regarding point (b), the initial targets were quite low, which was
reasonable given that this was the first operation introducing performance-based investments
in the WBG. However, by Bank standards and in a typical operation with the Bank as the only
donor, the targets should have seen more substantial increases in connection with the AF,
particularly given that the original targets had been over-achieved already at the time of AF
approval. However, MDP-I was a multi-donor operation and FPs were bound by their own
legal documents that would not be revised. During negotiations for the Bank financed AF, the
discussion of revised targets for PDO indicators resulted in a compromise between the Bank’s
wish for more substantial increases of indicator targets, and the other FPs wish to maintain the
original targets. As to point (c), the PA did not provide the full counterpart contribution,
which led to the project closing with 10 sub-projects (out of 522 total) not being implemented.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Achievement of PDO: Substantial

64.     The objective “to improve municipal management practices for better transparency”
was fully achieved as measured through the PDO indicators and as demonstrated by the
supporting evidence presented below. The project further contributed to progress towards
overall medium-term (program-level) and longer-term (sector level) goals. This result was
possible by building on a long history of engagement in the LG sector in the WBG by the
World Bank and other FPs. The MDP-I was truly a joint effort, but nonetheless, for
accountability reasons, we will return to the question of attribution of results to individual FPs
and the PA institutions after the discussion of overall outcomes.

Project-level (short term goals) 6
65.    The two PDO indicators related to graduation in performance ranking and use of
public disclosure methods. The project as a whole was designed to achieve the results
presented below, with investments under Window 1 serving as incentives for the



6
  The project was restructured in March 2012 and the PDO indicator targets were amended. Therefore, according
to the harmonized criteria for rating restructured projects, the rating of PDO should be based on a split evaluation
of the project against the PDO indicators and targets before and after restructuring. However, in each case, the
targets were surpassed and the split evaluation is implied and not explicitly presented in this section. At that time
of restructuring US$21.58 million of the total Bank-administered funds of US$37.69 million were disbursed,
corresponding to 57 percent of final disbursements.


                                                        17
municipalities to improve performance and the accompanying measures under Windows 3
and 4 making the performance improvements possible. In this connection, Window 2
(supporting amalgamation, OSS, and energy efficiency) contributed to laying the groundwork
for continued improvements to municipal transparency and responsiveness to citizen needs
under MDP-II. The management tools set in place in the municipalities and the improved
performance has laid the ground for the MDP-II to focus more on the delivery of services and
measuring the impact of these efforts.

PDO 1 – Improved municipal management practices: Substantial
66.     For Cycle 1, 68 percent of municipalities graduated up the rankings against a target of
15 percent at MTR. The final result was 96 percent of municipalities moving up the rankings,
which is a highly satisfactory result, even though the revised target should have been set
higher than 30 percent at the time of restructuring, based on the already good track record.
The result was achieved by targeting capacity-building packages to the specific needs of each
municipality to graduate to the next ranking level. For example, in Cycle 1 the capacity-
building package most in demand was training on the FPPM (75 packages), which moved a
number of municipalities up to rank C. In Cycle 2, many municipalities needed to prepare or
update their SDIP (as basis for investment planning and sub-project selection, 101 packages
total), but a number of municipalities were also ready to implement FARV (28 packages).
Even municipalities that did not receive a specific capacity-building package often made an
effort to respect the related criteria, such as maintaining budget discipline to turn an
operational account surplus and set in place a maintenance plan. Also, some municipalities
were already been respecting all but one of the performance indicators for a specific ranking,
meaning that by additional effort on just one indicator, they could move up the rankings.

67.     The table below provides the details of ranking evolution compared to the baseline.
The average ranking on the baseline performance assessment was 4.1 at appraisal (with 1
being the best possible ranking, 6 the lowest); this had improved to 3.1 by the end of Cycle 1
and continued to improve to 2.6 by the end of Cycle 2. This continued improvement through
Cycle 2 and after the restructuring in March 2012, with net graduation (of one or more ranks)
of almost all municipalities fully warrants rating achievement of PDO indicator 1 as
substantial, irrespective of the rather low level of adjustment of the indicator target during
restructuring.

                        Table 2: Performance criteria and initial rankings.
Rank                    Indicators of Performance                          Number of municipalities

                                                                    Baseline        After        After
                                                                                   Cycle 1      Cycle 2
1-A        1. Current account surplus (for 2 consecutive years)        0              0            0
           2. Unqualified external audit
           3. Integrated financial management system
2-B        4. Operational account surplus                              0             11           56
           5. Fixed assets register
           6. Maintenance plan in place
3-C        7. Municipal development/investment plan                   16             114          75
           8. Financial accounting policies & procedures in place
           9. External audit



                                                    18
4-D          10. Capital budget (approved and executed, properly     90       0           1
             submitted to the MOLG)
5-E          11. Recurrent budget (approved and properly submitted   26       9           2
             to the MOLG)
6-F          12. No budgetary information                            0        0           1

68.    As can be seen from the detailed breakdown of ranking changes below, several
municipalities graduated up more than one ranking category, due to a combination of
capacity-building packages provided by the MDP and the municipalities’ own efforts to
improve performance:

      •   Graduated E-B: 8 municipalities.
      •   Graduated D-C: 58 municipalities.
      •   Graduated D-B: 32 municipalities.
      •   Graduated C-B: 14 municipalities.
      •   No change: 4 municipalities (2 in C and 2 in E).
      •   Two newly amalgamated municipalities ranked B.
      •   One newly established municipality (included in the right column in the table above).
      •   Demoted E-F: 1 municipality.

69.     The changes from the baseline ranking in 2009 (based on data for 2007) to the second
ranking exercise at the end of Cycle 2 in fact support a highly positive evaluation of improved
municipal management practices. At the outset, 26 municipalities were only able to do the
very least in terms of adopting a recurrent budget, but were not even doing planning of capital
investments. At the end of the MDP-I this had been reduced to 2 municipalities. For the
baseline survey most municipalities were ranked D, with their only municipal management
tools in place being the budget. At the end of MDP-I, most municipalities are ranked C or B
meaning that they now as a minimum carry out municipal development/investment planning,
have in place adequate financial accounting policies and procedures and are being subjected
to external audits. On top of this, many municipalities are also demonstrating good use of
these tools by turning an operational account surplus, maintaining a fixed assets register, and
linking this to a maintenance plan. It should also be noted that one municipality moved
backwards from E to F, which was due to internal municipal problems.

70.     The majority of the Window 3 allocation (73 percent) was used for strategic planning
and benefited all municipalities, either to develop or upgrade SDIPs. The next phase for
SDIPs is to improve realism and link them closer to budgets and to increase efforts to
mobilize own resources, and to make the planning function operate more constantly, beyond
the preparation of SDIPs. At the end of 2013, all municipalities in the WBG have updated
SDIPs in place. Support to SDIPs improved participation considerably, in particular through
the inclusion of women and youth in the process of prioritization. The MDLF considers that
sub-projects selected from SDIPs generally had higher quality and more representative
participation than other sub-projects based on a less structured consultative process. The
national working group of the SDIP (which includes the MOLG, the MDLF, and GIZ) has
launched a knowledge center for learning and exchange among municipalities on SDIP.



                                                    19
71.     Packages on improving financial management made up 23 percent of the allocation
and included support and training for FARV, development and coaching on the FPPM,
development and implementation of budget preparation guideline, and promotion of external
audits. Most municipalities received support on FPPM (96 municipalities) and FARV (32
municipalities), while all municipalities attended orientation workshops on budget preparation
guidelines and external audits. Finally, only 4 percent of the allocation went to planning for
O&M which included an initial assessment of current practices and developing guidelines to
operationalize the O&M package for roads and public facilities. The details on per-cycle
capacity building packages are presented in Annex 2.

72.     The TOR for external audit of municipalities were elaborated by the MDLF and
published, so that municipalities could recruit auditors themselves. As a result, 64
municipalities have done so, marking a very substantial progress in financial management
from the baseline where only 31 municipalities had been subjected to external audits, but this
mostly only included financial statements and not compliance with MOLG norms. The
availability of the TOR now permits the MOLG to determine which municipalities that have
in fact had a qualifying external audit.

73.    The LTCs in both Gaza and West Bank provided valuable support to the MDLF
technical department and municipalities. This support included capacity building of the
MDLF technical team, which showed significant improvement on (a) safeguards monitoring
and implementation, (b) quality control of the bidding documents and technical designs.
Municipalities also benefited from the LTCs and showed parallel improvements in the
preparation of the bidding documents, technical designs and specification, supervision of
contractors during projects implementation, and their filing/archiving systems for the projects.

74.    It was foreseen that the MDP-I could support the roll-out of IFMIS to 20
municipalities that were not already covered under the LGCBP. However, delays with
implementing the IFMIS due to technical problems meant that the MDP-I opted not to
implement the IFMIS. This did not affect the municipal rankings, as IFMIS is required to
graduate to ranking “A”, which no municipality was ready to do during MDP-I.

75.     All intermediate outcome indicators were achieved. The Window 2 support to
municipal innovations and efficiency promoted amalgamation, energy savings, and
responsiveness to citizens. The MDP-I supported 8 amalgamated municipalities through an
allocation of EUR 608,185; the projects ranged from maintenance of schools, construction of
health centers to road safety. The projects implemented under Window 2 to support
amalgamated municipalities reduced the most pressing needs raised from amalgamation
process and improved citizen satisfaction with the performance of the merged municipalities.
Finally, these projects helped reduce the service gaps between the municipalities. Pre-
amalgamation activities were already supported by separate projects (the first and second
Local Development Projects) funded by BTC and Denmark.

76.    The outcome of the energy efficiency pilot was satisfactory and activities will be
scaled-up under MDP-II. Under the energy efficiency pilot, innovative approaches to reduce
operating costs (for street lighting, public buildings, and water and sewage pumps) were



                                              20
piloted in 4 municipalities. The results of the pilots are encouraging with total cost savings of
US$481,213, savings of 3,046,470 KWh of electricity over the three year period and an
expected simple payback period of just over two years. Scaling up the good results will lead
to better services through e.g. better street lighting, while freeing up municipal resources due
to cost savings. A manual to operationalize the results has been completed with a grant from
ESMAP and will be used in MDP-II under the capital investment component. Workshops
were conducted to familiarize the municipalities with use of the manual.

PDO 2 – Better transparency: Substantial
77.     As to the use of public disclosure methods, 68 percent of municipalities used at least
two of the specified methods, against a target of 60 percent. The vast majority of
municipalities (119) publically disclosed their SDIP, while 41 out of 61 municipalities
subjected to external audits disclosed these. There were also 75 of all municipalities that
disclosed their budgets, whereas 89 out of 135 disclosed their performance ranking. These are
quite satisfactory numbers, given the historic lack of outreach by municipal administrations in
the WBG, which the MDP is contributing to changing. The citizen satisfaction survey
presented in section 3.5 below and detailed in Annex 5 demonstrates upwards tendencies in
the citizens’ evaluation of municipalities on parameters of interaction, awareness, public
participation, and transparency between 2009 and 2012 (see the numbers in section 3.5). The
increase in satisfaction with municipal transparency from 34.8 to 36.6 percent was however
quite limited given the effort by municipalities to publically disclose different types of
documents. The MDP-II is continuing to support transparency initiatives, including better
definition of what documents to disclose and how.

78.     The OSS pilot under Window 2 was designed to increase transparency and supported
the establishment of OSSs in 3 municipalities in Gaza. These OSS will allow the citizens to
have a single point of entry to the municipality, no matter what type of problem or grievance.
Apart from this allowing municipalities to deliver better services and keep track of requests
from citizens and responses to these, the OSS also improve municipal transparency by making
it clear how the citizens’ requests or inquiries are being processed. Although technical
difficulties remain (notably weak IT skills, software maintenance, and frequent power cuts in
Gaza OSS will be rolled out under MDP-II.

Program-level (medium-term goals)
79.   The MDP-I contributed to significant progress towards the sector-related objectives in
the PAD, which are taken from the PRDP:

   (a) PRDP Objective 1: Bringing Government closer to the people by ensuring that local
       government is both empowered and accountable. The LGs are becoming more
       empowered to manage resources and development process, as described in this section.
       The accountability aspect is being supported by the MDP’s contribution to publishing
       municipal planning and budgeting information.
   (b) PRDP Objective 2: Strengthening local government, enhancing efficiency and
       effectiveness of local government, and moving local governments towards fiscal
       stability. Fiscal stability is predicated upon raising income and having adequate
       management tools in place to plan and execute development programs in relation to



                                               21
        the available resources including O&M. The MDP-I made significant progress on the
        tools part.
    (c) PRDP Objective 3: Harmonized donor approach to local government assistance. The
        MDP-I (followed by the ongoing MDP-II) marks a significant stride towards increased
        donor harmonization, and laid the groundwork for increasing the number of donors
        coming on board for MDP-II.

80.     The project further contributed to significant progress towards the program-related
objectives in the PAD:

    (a) Program-Level Indicator 1: At the end of each program phase, municipalities are
        rated satisfactorily on the quality and coverage of service delivery by citizens, through
        citizen satisfaction surveys. Although no specific target was set, the beneficiary
        satisfaction surveys carried out for the MDP-I clearly indicate improvements in citizen
        satisfaction with municipal services, from 50 percent to 57 percent in areas benefiting
        from MDP-I sub-projects. In non-MDP areas, the satisfaction was 45 percent.
    (b) Program-Level Indicator 2: Percentage of coverage of municipal services (households,
        neighborhoods) through MDP-financed investments as shown in the MDLF municipal
        infrastructure database. A post survey of the municipal infrastructure database was
        conducted by the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics. The improvements and the
        part attributable MDP-I is presented in Table 2 below. The MDP-I contribution is 14.7
        percent (overall), (10.3 percent WB), (34 percent Gaza) of the total invested amounts
        in municipalities over the 2010-2012 period.

                    Table 3: MDP-I contribution to improved municipal services.
Indicator                                 2009            2012       Difference     MDP-I        MDP-I
                                         baseline                                 contribution contribution
Number of municipalities with            78 mun.       58 mun.        20 mun.        5 mun.        25%
outdated water network
Length of water networks need           1,753 km       1,698 km        55 km         6.5 km        12%
rehabilitation/maintenance
Length of existing wastewater           2,176 km       2,695 km       519 km         21 km         4%
networks in municipalities in
Palestine
Length of paved roads in good           3,289 km       3,823 km       534 km         162 km        30%
condition in municipalities in
Palestine
Number of lighting units in           112,433 units 168,844 units 56,411 units     2,049 units     4%
municipalities in Palestine
Source: Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics report submitted to the MDLF in March 2013.

81.     The survey was carried out while the MDP-I was still in progress and does not capture
results of the sub-projects that were completed during 2013. The survey does serve to
demonstrate that the MDP-I contributions to improved municipal service delivery were
substantial. The results are especially striking for roads, which account for 72 percent of
Window 1 funds. With the final result for roads at the end of the project (310 kilometers
financed by the MDP-I) the contribution would be around 45 percent of the difference.


                                                     22
Sector-level goal (long term)
82.    Municipalities are slowly making progress towards creditworthiness. Only
municipalities ranked “A” are considered sufficiently financially sustainable to be
creditworthy, and the MDP-II aims to have at least 5 creditworthy municipalities by the end
of the MDP-II, which is an objective of the PA. The Lending part of the MDLF is currently
being investigated under French funding, which will help clarify the mandate of the MDLF
going forward.

Outcome of sub-projects
83.    Window 1 consisted of capital investment grants based on a formula that included
performance, needs, and population criteria. By the end of the project, 522 sub-projects were
implemented from an allocation of US$64.7 million across the municipalities in the WBG.
The (GAM) is available as a tool with transparent graduation criteria. Access to investments
through sub-projects was designed to incentivize municipalities to perform better. As
described above, this approach fully succeeded, with substantial improvements to municipal
administration, and with the MDP also making substantial contributions to overall
improvements in municipal services. The distributional and qualitative aspects of these
improvements are analyzed below.

84.    As a result of cycles 1 and 2, roads were the most requested sub-projects, constituting
57 percent of the number of sub-projects implemented for a total of US$49.0 million; the
second most requested type of sub-project was public facilities, which accounted for 11
percent of the number of sub-projects at a cost of US$7.6 million. The remaining allocation
went to wastewater, water, solid waste, electricity and other projects.

85.     The MDLF carried out a survey of the reasons for the large investments in roads and it
was found that this was due to a combination of factors. First of all, roads are one of the main
services provided by municipalities, and figure prominently in the SDIPs. The grant
implementation period was also a factor, since roads investments generally have relatively
short implementation periods, as was the size of the grants and the ability to scale road
investments to fit the grant amount. Other reasons given were that that needs for investments
in other types of infrastructures were to some extent covered by other funding sources
(principally other donor funded projects), and that the amounts were not always sufficient to
consider other types of sub-projects. Finally, part of the explanation for the bias towards road
investments was that other donors finance investments in education and health, which are also
services provided by the municipalities (although the hard financing data is not available to
quantify this support).

86.     In general, with few exceptions, the bulk provision of water supply and sewage
disposal and electricity are managed by utilities on behalf of municipalities. Consequently,
municipalities only extend water and sewerage networks. In the cases where municipalities
provide such services, the amount of MDP-I allocations are not sufficient to cover the
financing needs and such allocations can only be used for extensions or repairs to such
networks. It should be noted that larger municipalities have access to more sources of funds,
whether internally generated or from the Ministry of Finance and donors, and the MDP
allocation is not the main source of financing for them.



                                              23
87.    As confirmed by site visits and the beneficiary satisfaction survey, the selection of
road investments was generally well-founded, with works done to serve areas with schools
and/or health facilities, connecting villages within the municipal boundaries, and for
improving access to densely populated areas or opening roads to newly developed areas.

88.    As part of project monitoring, the MDLF kept track of the employment generated
under Window 1 during construction. A total of 246,047 person-days of temporary
employment were generated by construction activities (of which 143.991 in the West Bank
and 102,083 in Gaza).

Attribution of results
89.     The question of attribution of results to the respective contributing FPs and the PA
(including the MDLF) cannot be answered definitely. All donor and PA funds for sub-projects
under Window 1 contributed to providing incentives for municipalities to improve
performance and move up the rankings, and to increase transparency. The most objective
measure of attribution - weighing results by financial contributions (see Annex 1) - would
also be overly simplistic. In the first place, this would attribute only 7 percent of results to the
MDLF (the management fee). The MDLF was the implementing agency and primary
responsible for getting results on the ground. Secondly, financing ratios does not capture how
the FPs provided specific inputs to the MDP-I and sought to maximize synergies with other
related projects in the sector. Finally, some FPs (the GIZ and Denmark) fund technical
assistants for the MOLG, while all FPs had technical specialists based in the field who all
contributed to implementation support missions and daily monitoring of progress.

90.     It can be said that World Bank provided expertise in municipal management and
funded key consultants for the background study which fed into the development of the GAM.
The use of Bank procedures was essential to enabling all FPs to co-finance the project using
one set of procedures. The Bank also provided (through ESMAP) a consultant to implement
the Window 2 energy efficiency pilot. As described in section 2.1, specific donors provided
input to other aspects of project preparation and appraisal, and continued to play key roles in
these aspects throughout implementation. Annex 2 provides the detailed activities for
Windows 2, 3, and 4, with attribution of financing. TOR for all consultants’ services were
submitted to all FPs for review and clearance. The FP financing the specific assignment
consolidated comments and issued no-objection to the MDLF accordingly.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: High

91.     No economic analysis was carried out at appraisal due to the demand-driven nature of
the sub-projects, but a detailed economic and financial screening methodology was developed
(including economic and financial modeling in Excel) to support dialogue between the MDLF
and municipalities on sub-project efficiency. This was an innovative approach for the type of
demand driven sub-projects financed by the MDP-I and contributed strongly to assuring that
least-cost options were chosen to meet identified needs and supported equitable sharing of
benefits from investments among the populations of each municipality by analyzing Net Cost
per Beneficiary (NCB). The methodology was based on investment costs, any financial


                                                24
   revenues, and operation and maintenance costs over the life cycle of the sub-project. This
   introduced an element of sustainability in the analysis, further supporting economic viability
   through assuring that cost to assure continued flow of benefits was taken into account. The
   detailed analysis carried out for the ICR per sub-project category (presented in Annex 3)
   shows that the methodology developed at appraisal, and as actually implemented, supported
   high efficiency and equity of investments. The MDLF further maintained a unit price database,
   which was updated yearly and used in elaboration and verification of budgets and cost
   estimates and control of bidding prices.

   92.    For the ICR, ex-post cost-benefit analysis was carried out for the main types of
   investments under Window 1 (roads and public facilities) and for revenue-generating pilots
   under Window 2 (energy efficiency). The detailed results and assumptions are presented in
   Annex 3, with an overview given in Table 3 below.

                                     Table 4: Result of economic analysis.
                        Number Percentage Percentage
               Cost                                                                           Ex-post analysis (ERR,
 Category               of sub-  of W1     of MDP-I                Ex-ante analysis
             (millions)                                                                        NPV, other measure)
                        projects  costs       costs
                                                          Least cost design based on
                                                          traffic counting.                  ERR: 29.7%
Roads         US$45.8         265       65.5%       63.6%
                                                          Analysis of ratios of NCB per      NPV: US$48.8 M
                                                          beneficiary.
                                                          Analysis of financial potential
                                                          of buildings, market analysis,
Public                                                    incorporation of O&M to            ERR: 15.7%
                US$6.8         50       10.0%        9.4%
facilities                                                assure sustainability.             NPV: $2.5 M
                                                          Unit-cost considerations.

                                                           Least cost analysis based on      Maintenance more cost-
                                                           standard designs.                 efficient than reinvesting
Wastewater                                                 Verification of ability to        in new networks.
                US$6.9         63       10.3%         9.7%
and water                                                  cover O&M cost.
                                                           Water meters to have FRR of
                                                           at least 15%.
                                                           For equipment: Cost savings       Financial resources in part
                                                           compared to market rates,         allocated to maintenance,
                                                           incorporation of O&M cost.        which is estimated to be
                                                           For street lighting: Respect of   more cost-efficient than
Others          US$4.5        105        6.4%         6.0% guidelines developed for          reinvesting      in    new
                                                           energy efficiency.                networks. Systematically
                                                           Public parks: Market analysis,    competitive bidding and
                                                           revenues to cover O&M cost,       request price quotations, to
                                                           visitor count.                    assure low cost.
Energy                                                     Energy audit to evaluate
                                                                                             ERR: 22.8%
efficiency      US$0.5 4 mun.             N/A         0.7% savings potential.
                                                                                             NPV: US$0.3 M
(Window 2)
    Source: Economic analysis for the ICR – detailed in Annex 3.

   93.   Investments of US$45.8 million to rehabilitate or construct 310 kilometers of roads
   were analyzed (out of US$49.0 million in the roads sub-project category). The analysis


                                                         25
quantifies benefits from savings in transport time and maintenance cost of vehicles and
incorporates cost of maintaining the roads. The result shows Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
of 29.7 percent, substantially above the opportunity cost of capital (discounting rate of 8
percent, which is conservative, given that the PA can currently lend in the market at about 5
percent), and Net Present Value (NPV) of US$48.9 million. Sensitivity analysis shows that
with benefits lowered by 25 percent, ERR drops to 20.2 percent, still well above the
opportunity cost of capital.

94.     In public facilities, US$7.6 million were invested in 56 sub-projects to construct new
buildings, rehabilitate old buildings, and construct public gardens and parks. The ICR
analyzes 50 sub-projects to construct 16,783 square meters of new buildings. The analysis
quantifies benefits from savings in rentals and revenue from renting out space. The result
shows Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 15.7 percent, well above the opportunity cost of
capital, and NPV of US$2.5 million. Sensitivity analysis shows that with benefits lowered by
25 percent, ERR drops to 8.2 percent, and NPV to US$0.1 million, only just above the
opportunity cost of capital and not as robust a result as for roads given lack of detailed
knowledge of effective rental prices and building usage.

95.    The energy efficiency pilot invested US$533,547 in cost-saving electric installations,
based on prior auditing of savings potentials. At the end of the trial period, measurements
were carried out to verify savings. The results show NPV of US$310,956 and ERR of 22.8
percent. The simple pay-back period is low, at only 2.2 years. The importance of these results
is underlined by considering the impact on the overall fiscal situation of the PA and potential
to reduce “net lending” (the term used for deduction in clearance arrears to the PA by the GOI
to make up for payment arrears to the Israeli Electric Company by Palestinian municipalities).
The conclusive results let to the pilot being mainstreamed into Window 1 for MDP-II; a
procurement manual is available for the municipalities.

96.    For other categories of sub-projects, the ex-ante screening was carried out as follows.
(a) Cost savings of equipment was compared to market rates; (b) for street lighting, guidelines
were developed for energy efficiency; (c) public parks were subjected to market analysis,
revenues to cover O&M cost, and visitor count. The ex-post analysis shows that financial
resources were in part allocated to maintenance, which is estimated to be more cost-efficient
than reinvesting in new networks. Further, it was confirmed that the MDPF systematically
applied competitive bidding and requested price quotations, to assure low cost.

97.     The efficiency of project implementation was acceptable, with a four month extension
necessary to finalize all project activities. An initial delay was due to slow startup of
implementation, but the external circumstances towards the end of the project (in particular
the hostilities in Gaza) were a contributing factor. The substantial economic efficiency of
project investments by far outweighs these slight implementation delays.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory




                                              26
98.      The relevance of objective and design of the project were substantially to highly
relevant, with clearly defined activities to meet relevant targets in the results framework.
These results further corresponded to, and continue to correspond to, the development
priorities of the PA and the Bank, as well as other FPs. The project achieved its objectives
with only minor shortcomings, and further contributed substantially to furthering medium-
term program-level goals as well as long-term sector-level goals, with data available to
substantiate the evaluation. The implemented sub-project screening methodology contributed
to developing least-cost solutions and ex-post evaluation of cost-benefits of the main
investments demonstrate rates of return substantially above the opportunity cost of capital,
even under conservative assumptions. The information presented in the ICR, including cost-
benefit analysis of a substantial part of investments, fully justifies a Satisfactory rating.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
99.    The level of participation of women to the SDIP elaboration process was initially not
very high but was improved, e.g., by moving meeting times to times where women would be
more available (e.g. on weekends). Inclusion of gender and youth in the investment planning
and decision-making process is being strengthened further in the MDP-II (see section 6).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
100. The institutional change induced by the project is fully described in the outcome
section above.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
101. There were no unintended outcomes of impacts.
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
102. The customer and citizen satisfaction survey was carried out as baseline and repeated
again in 2012. The results of the surveys are for the most part positive and indicate
improvements from 2009, as shown in the table below. There was improvement for three out
of six services (water, sewage, and roads) and deterioration for the other three services
(electricity, solid waste, and parks). Some recurring issues were highlighted (e.g. shortage of
solid waste containers, water shortage, and electricity cuts in Gaza, prepaid metering, and
insufficient spaces for green areas). The factors underlying the decreased satisfaction with
electricity and space for parks are largely outside the control of the PA. By comparing the
overall satisfaction with services (calculated as a weighted score for all services), which
increased in MDP areas (from 50 percent in 2009 to 57 percent in 2012), to the satisfaction in
non-MDP areas, at 45 percent in 2012, we can conclude that the upwards tendency in MDP-
areas is statistically significant.

103. Each of the areas of citizen satisfaction with municipal administration showed
improvement over the period, although from a low base in some cases. It might have been
expected that the satisfaction with transparency had increased more, given the effort by
municipalities to publish SDIPs, budgets, external audits and rankings; the underlying reason
should be examined more. Detailed analysis of results is presented in Annex 5.




                                              27
              Table 5: Evolution in scores of customer and citizen satisfaction surveys.
                                               2009                             2012
      Services Indicators      Satisfaction           Overall    Satisfaction           Overall
                                  Score                score        Score                score
      Electricity                  65.1                             58.1
      Water                        42.7                             54.8
      Sewage                       57.8                             68.4                   57.1
                                                       50.0                            (non-MDP
      Solid Waste                  52.3                             50.6                areas: 45)
      Roads                        49.7                             58.7
      Parks                        51.8                             32.3
      Interaction                  68.8                             72.5
      Awareness                    18.6                             33.4                   ---
                                                           ---
      Public Participation         16.4                             23.2
       Transparency                 34.8                            36.6
      Source: Surveys financed by the MDP-I.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

104. The risk to development outcome is rated Substantial. It is likely that project outputs
will continue to provide the achieved benefits in terms of improvements to municipal
performance achieved by the MDP-I. Roll-out will continue mainly under the MDP-II, and
expectations of further improvements in the longer term are justified by the PAs strategy for
the sector coupled with strong and growing donor engagement. Even though the overall
country context remains fragile and unpredictable, the LG system operates rather
independently of the macro-context, as shown by the fact that the MOLG continues to provide
oversight to LGUs in Gaza and pay salaries in spite of the political divide between the West
Bank and Gaza. It is unlikely that any future resurgence of violence between Israeli
authorities and the PA will pose a significant threat to development outcome, even if
individual sub-projects should be damaged under such circumstances.

105. The main risk to outcome comes from the lack of an adopted LG sector law, as the PA
cannot adopt any laws without a functioning legislative body. The law has been adopted by
the cabinet, but cannot be implemented in the current political environment. Another risk
comes from the execution of non-performance based municipal financing programs, which
present a risk to the sector and program level objective of the MDP (although data is not
available to evaluate the scale of non-MDP financing to municipalities). Other donors provide
funding to the PA for municipal investments outside the MDP system. Throughout the project
the FPs have highlighted the importance of maintaining the integrity of the performance-
based mechanism and the three key ministries (finance, planning and development, and LGs)
confirmed their engagement to not undermining the incentive system. Some large investments
(e.g. wastewater treatment plants, landfills) could require investments outside the
performance-based mechanism.



                                                      28
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

106. The World Bank was the main convening FP around when the MDP was developed,
since the project was designed based on Bank procedures. By providing procedures
acceptable by all parties, the Bank made the first steps towards a sector-wide approach
possible. The Bank further provided valuable input to the definition of the performance
ranking mechanism. The overall concept was sound and the project was fully ready for
implementation when it was approved. The only minor shortcoming is that the PAD should
have been more forthcoming about staffing shortcomings in the MDLF at appraisal and the
Bank should have proposed solutions to overcome this shortcoming. This did not affect the
final outcome of the project, since implementation delays were overcome.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

107. Implementation support missions were regular, about once every 6 months, and saw
participation of all FPs. The fact of having a World Bank team member based in the World
Bank office in Gaza allowed the Bank to support the MDLF and municipalities in the difficult
project start-up phase. The World Bank TTL changed once during implementation and apart
from changes for two other donors, the team of FPs saw through the MDP-I from start to end.
Most missions included field visits to sub-projects and activities under Window 2. The Bank
took the lead on supervising fiduciary and safeguards policies; minor problems related to
voluntary land donation, procurement and financial management were pro-actively addressed.
ISRs were filed regularly and provided full and covering account of project implementation.
The Bank should however have assured that changes to PDO indicator targets were reflected
in ISRs and that the target for total number of beneficiaries was set realistically; this is the
only noteworthy shortcoming in project supervision and did not affect the final project
outcome.

108. The World Bank TTL was based in the country office throughout project
implementation; each of the other FPs also had technical experts based in the field, and GIZ
and Danida further provided a full-time technical assistant to the MOLG, who worked
regularly with the MDLF to follow up on any technical issues. All mission aide-memoires
were joint. The Borrower’s ICR (Annex 7) confirms the positive contributions of the Bank
team to the project, including day-to-day follow-up by team members in the field, the
participation of sector experts to missions and of team members from both the West Bank and
Gaza.

109. The MDP FPs were actively supporting the PA to align donor support to the MDP.
The Bank had staff based in Gaza, which contributed to supporting project implementation
and carried out regular field visits to verify safeguards compliance and quality of works. The
joint donor missions also visited Gaza three times during implementation. Targeted missions


                                              29
were undertaken by the World Bank or other donors for specific activities as and when needed,
e.g. for the Window 2 energy efficiency pilot, for which it was not necessary to mobilize the
collective FPs.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

110. The overall satisfactory rating is justified by the fact that there were only minor
shortcomings on Bank performance during preparation and implementation, with the Bank
providing key inputs to project design and taking the lead in project preparation as described
above and pro-actively identifying solutions to problems encountered during implementation.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) PA Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

111. The PA was actively involved in assuring project preparation. The project launch
workshop in December 2009 was chaired by the Prime Minister. During project
implementation, the PA also made an effort to bring donors in the LG sector into the MDP or
to assure that approaches are well coordinated, but could not fully align all LG donors to a
performance-based mechanism during the MDP-I. There was initially a problem of
segregation of duties as it took until the approval of the MDLF Board manual in 2010 to
clarify the role of the MDLF Board in overseeing the management of the organization. The
Chairman of the Board at the time (the Minister of Local Government) was reluctant to even
partially devolve responsibility for the signing of checks to the Managing Director of the
MDLF.

112. The PA was late to provide counterpart funds for Cycle 1 (only provided by December
2012), which led to significant delays for payment of contractors by the MDLF. The PA did
not provide the full counterpart funding for Cycle 2 (see Annex 1 on financing). As a result,
10 sub-projects (out of 522) were not implemented. This leaves the project with a reputational
risk, and potential maneuvering under MDP-II for municipalities to avoid having their sub-
projects attributed to PA funding. Some FPs may also not being willing to finance Value-
Added Tax (VAT) during MDP-II (since the PA counterpart funds were to make up for the de
facto budget support resulting from FPs financing of VAT for sub-projects).

113. The PA financing shortfall can be partly explained by the fact that financial systems of
the MDLF and PA ministries were not fully compatible so that funding requests for sub-
projects were handled by hardcopy letters. This meant they did not receive automated transfer
treatment by the Ministry of Finance. Also the PA is under significant budget pressure due to
reduced inflow of donor support, so are faced with very real constraints, but ratings should be
based on objective criteria and this demands that the lack of counterpart funding leads to a
moderately satisfactory rating, due to its impact on the MDP reputation and sustainability.
The progress in transitioning to a preponderantly PA-funded performance-based LG transfer
system would also be slowed down given that some donors provide LG investment financing
through non-performance based mechanisms.


                                              30
114. The MDLF Board of Directors did not play an important role, and in spite of repeated
requests to have focal points present from key PA institutions during missions this did not
happen.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

115. The MDLF assured day-to-day implementation of the MDP-I, which achieved very
good results through oversight of the LTCs and ongoing dialogue with municipalities around
performance improvements and economic evaluation of sub-projects. At times the MDLF was
overwhelmed with the number of contracts in the project outset, but moved quickly to recruit
the necessary personnel to correct implementation shortcomings. For cycle 1, the MDLF
capacity was stretched due to simultaneous processing several procurement packages for sub-
projects and capacity building, and for this reason project implementation was delayed. The
change in workload is unavoidable in a cyclical project but for cycle 2, the MDLF adopted a
smarter approach by packaging similar works in larger lots, publishing tenders more
continuously, and clustering municipalities for capacity building packages to reduce the
number of tenders to process. This significantly reduced time to implement cycle 2 to about
18 months against more than 24 months to complete all construction under cycle 1.

116. The client and citizen satisfaction survey (see Annex 5) confirmed that municipal staff
generally feel that the MDLF is sufficiently clear about municipal rankings and gives fair
chance to appeal the rankings. The MDLF’s reporting to FPs was generally of high quality.
The MDLF has good project management systems and reported well on project progress,
including indicator data. There were no shortcomings on fiduciary management, apart from
minor temporary problems to provide accurate disbursement forecasts. Another minor
shortcoming was that the MDLF was late in contracting the auditor for the internal audit
compliance and also took long to develop a plan to implement the audit recommendations.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

117. The satisfactory performance of the MDLF contributed to program implementation, to
the satisfactory outcome, and to the availability of data to support the ratings. The
shortcomings on the PAs performance contribute to a less positive rating of overall borrower
performance, but the satisfactory overall outcome of the project justifies a satisfactory rating.

6. Lessons Learned

118. Improvements in service delivery should be conceived as a long-term process in well-
defined phases, by focusing first on improvements to the underlying institutional and
municipal management aspects and improved monitoring. Building the MDP (I&II) design on
a homegrown hierarchy of objectives with well-determined sector, program and project goals
allowed tracking and benchmarking the incremental progress on municipal management and
service delivery performance improvements at each level of objectives. This was made
possible by building on a long history of Bank engagement and coordination with other


                                               31
donors in the LG sector in the WBG, with each successor project building upon and
expanding on achievements of its predecessor. The two-cycle nature of the MDP-I allowed
some lessons of Cycle 1 to be incorporated already in Cycle 2, such as better definition of the
“need” part of the allocation formula, while the overall lessons inform the MDP-II.

119. A performance-based grant system can be introduced successfully and gradually and
establish the basis for a formal fiscal transfer mechanism. The list below catalogs the factors
that led to success and areas that need further consideration going forward:

   •   The addition of performance criteria to the transfer mechanism and linking the size of
       investment grants to performance under MDP-I were effective in incentivizing
       municipalities to improve financial management and planning procedures and to
       increase transparency. Under MDP-II, the percentage allocated to the performance
       criteria in the transfer formula has been increased to further capitalize on this
       successful incentive program.
   •   The benchmarking of performance in itself also caused municipalities to strive for
       better rankings compared to peers, supported by the ambition of municipal officials
       and administrators to provide better services.
   •   Notwithstanding these positive elements, the channeling of non-performance based
       investment funds to the same municipalities risks weakening the performance
       incentive and making transaction cost to access MDP funds appear high. For this
       reason parallel funding should be reduced and over time limited to major investments.
   •   A more explicit consensus on a timeframe for aligning donors to a performance-based
       mechanism and transition to a preponderantly PA-funded transfer system will help
       assure the integrity of the system and transition process.
   •   The delicate balance between performance incentives and investment financing should
       be resolved more explicitly from a policy perspective, since the success of a
       performance-based grant system as an incentive tool to implement national policies
       depends on alignment and attaining critical mass.

120. Improved donor coordination is a rewarding albeit lengthy process, which can be
successfully facilitated by making use of World Bank procedures. The history of donor
coordination in the LG sector in the WBG spans several projects, and has improved further
with the continued inclusion of additional donors under the MDP umbrella. Under EMSRP-I,
several donors worked with the MOLG to ensure that their financing was allocated through a
single formula, under EMSRP-II this was taken a step further by the MDLF providing all
donors with a joint financing report. Under MDP-I, the joint donor approach was successfully
expanded to include joint development of the project, use of single procurement, financial
management (FM), and monitoring systems, based on Bank procedures, and joint supervision
missions. A strong factor of success was the in-field presence of World Bank sector experts
throughout this process. The Bank’s procedures are well-accepted by donors and can facilitate
donor-coordination and provide the outset for designing a multi-donor operation. However,
the World Bank should seek to improve procedural flexibility for pooling of funds, as the two
Bank-administered funding windows (TFGWB and MDTF) as well as all other donor funding
use separate designated accounts, with accounting implications for the MDLF.



                                              32
121. There is room for improving the incorporation of gender and youth aspects, which is
being done on several levels in MDP-II. While the MDP-I provided training to the MDLF and
municipalities on gender aspects, there was no systematic gender approach to decisions on
investment planning. The MDP-I experience confirmed and deepened the understanding that
female beneficiaries often select different priorities (e.g. sidewalks for safer access of children
to school or street lighting for security). The MDP-II will mainstream gender inclusion. The
M&E system uses gender sensitive program monitoring which will disaggregate the male and
female beneficiary population and the extent to which "family friendly" infrastructure is built.
The updated (2013) SDIPs manual includes female and youth quotas in committee
formulation and meetings. Finally, the citizen and client beneficiary satisfaction surveys will
be reviewed to ensure a gender-sensitive approach to target groups.

122. Municipalities can be successfully supported to incorporate economic efficiency
considerations into investment decisions through introduction of simple screening tools and
well-targeted pilot activities in energy conservation. Economic reasoning and screening of
investments supported by standardized modeling in Excel can encourage development of
least-cost solutions and designs for investments in improved service delivery, leading to high
rates of return. Further, energy efficiency investments are financially and technically feasible
in the WBG. With a simple payback time of just over two years, these investments have the
potential to improve municipal finances substantially and to reduce “net lending”. The
positive results have led to the energy efficiency investments being mainstreamed into
Window 1 of MDP-I and introduction of a new renewable energy pilot.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
123. The draft ICR was shared with the MDLF for comments. The MDLF confirmed that
they had no comments on the ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers
124. The draft ICR was shared with FPs for comments. KfW responded with a list of
comments (reproduced in Annex 8) and found the report generally well written and
comprehensive. The comments from KfW have been incorporated into the final report as
relevant. DANIDA and AFD confirmed that they had no comments on the ICR. No responses
were received from other FPs.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
125. There were no other partners.




                                                33
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                    PAD           MDLF
                                                              Actual/Latest Percentage of Percentage of
                                  Appraisal      Appraisal
         Components                                             Estimate        PAD          MDLF
                                  Estimate       Estimate
                                                              (US$ millions) Appraisal     Appraisal
                                (US$ millions) (US$ millions)
Window 1                            46.16          68.58          64.69        140.14%        94.33%
   -of which TFGWB                    7.60            9.31           10.03         131.97%         107.79%
   -of which MDTF                     0.00           20.73           21.09         N/A             101.73%
Window 2                              3.70            1.75            1.91          51.62%         108.77%
   -of which TFGWB                    0.00            0.70            0.67         N/A              95.88%
   -of which MDTF                     0.00            1.05            1.23         N/A             117.34%
Window 3                              5.43            2.30            2.52          46.41%         109.57%
   -of which TFGWB                    0.60            0.63            0.14          23.33%          21.51%
   -of which MDTF                     0.00            1.60            0.86         N/A              53.51%
Window 4                              6.64            6.68            6.53          98.34%          95.72%
   -of which TFGWB                    1.10            1.36            1.59         144.55%         116.84%
   -of which MDTF                     0.00            2.27            2.41         N/A             106.16%
Total Baseline Cost                  61.93           79.27           75.47         121.86%          95.21%
Physical Contingencies                0.00            0.00            0.00         N/A             N/A
Price Contingencies                   0.00            0.00            0.00         N/A             N/A
Total Project Costs                  61.93           79.27           75.47         121.86%          95.21%
Front-end fee PPF                     0.00            0.00            0.00         N/A             N/A
Total Financing Required                 61.93           79.27           75.47          121.86%          95.21%
                                                               (a)             (c)
     -of which TFGWB                     10.00           12.00           12.43          124.30%        103.57%
     -of which MDTF                       0.00           25.65 (b)       25.59 (d)     N/A               99.75%
Note 1: All appraisal amounts for the MDTF are “zero” in the column for “PAD Appraisal Estimate”, as the ICR
presents the appraisal estimates in the PAD, which only breaks down funding by World Bank (TFGWB) and
“Other Donors + PA”. The column “MDLF Appraisal Estimates” reflects the full funding of the MDP-I, once the
expected per-cycle contributions from all FPs (including the MDTF) were known, and including the AF from the
TFGWB.
Note 2: The disbursements column in section G of the Data Sheet (Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs) does
not include funds from the AF (TF-11407, US$2M), since a technical omission at the time of restructuring
necessitated a retroactive relinking of the TF to the parent project. The amount of the TF-11407 is included in
the disbursed amount listed in section A of the Data Sheet.
(a) Includes the original financing from the TFGWB (TF-95351, US$10M) and the AF from the TFGWB (TF-
11407, US$2M).
(b) Includes the funds from TF-12410 (US$12.21M according to Bank systems) and TF-96770 (US$13.48
according to Bank systems).
(c) The amounts provided by the MDLF are maintained for the ICR, as they are broken down by Window cost,
and add up to the total as per MDLF audited accounting. The total actual disbursement (US$12.00 according to
Bank systems) differs slightly from the amount (US$12.43M) in Table (a) due to exchange rate fluctuations.
(d) The amounts provided by the MDLF are maintained for the ICR, as they are broken down by Window cost,
and add up to the total as per MDLF audited accounting. The total actual disbursement (US$25.69M according
to Bank systems) differs slightly from the amount (US$25.59M) in Table (a) due to exchange rate fluctuations.




                                                      34
(b) Financing
                                                          Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                        Type of                                              Percentage of
         Source of Funds                                  Estimate          Estimate
                                      Cofinancing                                             Appraisal
                                                        (US$ millions)    (US$ millions)
Borrower                           Parallel                    6.56              3.36           51.25%
World Bank Special Financing –
                                                              10.00              12.43          124.28%
TFGWB
MDFT (Denmark and Sweden)                                     25.65              25.59          99.77%
AFD                                Parallel                   11.82              11.59          97.98%
KfW                                Parallel                   20.99              20.32          96.84%
GIZ                                 Parallel                     0.97               0.90         93.54%
BTC                                 Parallel                     1.28               1.28         99.64%
Note 1: Appraisal Estimate as provided by the MDLF, they do not appear in the PAD, which did not include all
expected FP contributions. The Appraisal Estimates in Table (b) plus the US$2 million AF from the TFGWB
add up to the column “MDLF Appraisal Estimates” in Table (a) above.
Note 2: Table A7.1 in Annex 7 presents the grant amounts from each FP in the original currency.




                                                     35
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component

  Window 1: Municipal Grants for Capital Investment

  1.      Grant amounts were allocated to municipalities according to the three criteria of
  population, needs, and performance ranking. The grants were first distributed according to the
  allocation formula and then regrouped so that specific donors could fund specific sub-projects.
  All FPs (with the exception of BTC) supported both the West Bank and Gaza; the FP
  contribution in Window 1 was split with 40 percent for Gaza and 60 percent to the West
  Bank). Window 1 further financed EUR 2,066,030 of recurrent expenditure for service
  delivery in Gaza (financed only by the Bank-administered TFGWB and MDTF).

                                Table A2.1: Outputs of Window 1 sub-projects.
                                                                                                        %
   Sector             Sub-Sector                     Indicator              Unit Targeta Achievedb
                                                                                                     Achievedc
             Paving                    Roads rehabilitated                  Km       295      310        105%
             Side Walks                Sidewalks rehabilitated               m    50,312    49,927        99%
Roads        Retaining Walls           Retaining walls rehabilitated         m     4,405     6,279       143%
             Street Lighting           Street lighting units supplied       No.    3,386     3,415       101%
             Culverts                  Storm water drainage rehabilitated    m     1,060      740         70%
             Water network rehab.      Water networks rehabilitated         Km         9       11        119%
             Ground water wells
                                       Wells maintained                     No.       27       47        174%
             maintenance (Gaza)
Water        Households connection     Households connection installed      No.      142      167        118%
             Pumps                     Pumps installed                      No.        1        1        100%
             Water meters              Water meters installed               No.    3,230     3,157        98%
             Wastewater network rehab. Wastewater networks rehabilitated    Km        50       35         71%
Wastewater Households connection       Households connected                 No.       70      103        147%
             Vehicles                  Vehicles installed                   No.        1        1        100%
Solid Waste Solid waste containers     Containers supplied                  No.      498      498        100%
             Public buildings
                                       Public buildings constructed         m2    17,184    16,783        98%
             construction
Public
             Public gardens            Public gardens constructed           m2    27,500    29,000       105%
Facilities
             Public buildings
                                       Public buildings maintained          m2    35,187    35,159       100%
             maintenance
                                       Tractors supplied                    No.        2        2        100%
                                       Rollers supplied                     No.        3        3        100%
Others       Service tools
                                       Excavators supplied                  No.        7        7        100%
                                        Total stations supplied             No.        1        1        100%
  a) Sum of all approved sub-project applications in each category.
  b) Actual result.
  c) Percentage achievement b/a. Overachievements are due cost savings and approval of additional works.




                                                          36
    2.      The share of investments going to each sector is presented below per cycle and overall
    (amounts in Euro provided by the MDLF; dollar amounts vary from the cost table in Annex 1
    due to currency fluctuations).

                             Table A2.2: Sector breakdown of Window 1 sub-projects.
                Cycle 1                           Cycle 2                           Total
                                                                                              Percent (by
Sector                           Percent (by                   Percent (by                     allocation
               Allocation No. of             Allocation No. of              Allocation No. of
                                  allocation                    allocation                    in EUR/ by
                 (EUR) projects                (EUR) projects              (EUR/US$) projects
                                     /no.)                         /no.)                      no. of sub-
                                                                                                projects)
                                                                           €37,012,874
Roads          18,852,496    151 75.9 / 68.0 18,160,378    147 68.6 / 49.0                298 72.2 / 57.1
                                                                           $49,002,905
Public                                                                               €5,722,702
                 1,903,143       19   7.7 / 8.6    3,819,559      37 14.4 / 12.3                   56 11.2 / 10.7
facilities                                                                           $7,576,527
                                                                                     €3,182,386
Wastewater       1,883,965       20   7.6 / 9.0    1,298,421      13   4.9 / 4.3                   33   6.2 / 6.3
                                                                                     $4,213,295
                                                                                     €2,090,399
Water            1,043,571       13   4.2 / 5.9    1,046,828      17   4.0 / 5.7                   30   4.1 / 5.7
                                                                                     $2,767,567
                                                                                     €1,040,565
Solid wastes      230,220         4   0.9 / 1.8     810,345       24   3.1 / 8.0                   28   2.0 / 5.4
                                                                                     $1,377,648
                                                                                      €601,070
Electricity       536,118         7   2.2 / 3.2      64,952        1   0.2 / 0.3                    8   1.2 / 1.5
                                                                                      $795,782
                                                                                     €1,633,840
Others            378,527         8   1.5 / 3.6    1,255,313      61   4.7 / 20.3                  69 0.3 / 13.2
                                                                                     $2,163,110
                                                                                    €51,283,836
Total          24,828,040       222               26,455,796     300                              522
                                                                                    $67,896,833

    Window 2: Support to Municipal Innovations and Efficiency

    3.        Window 2 financed the following activities as foreseen at appraisal:

         •    Financing of service expansion in 8 newly amalgamated LGs (MDTF).
         •    Energy efficiency pilot and evaluation in 4 municipalities (TFGWB).
         •    OSS pilot and evaluation in 3 municipalities (MDTF).


    Window 3: Capacity Building for municipalities and the MDLF

    4.        Window 3 financed the following activities:




                                                            37
                            Table A2.3: Capacity-building packages in Cycle 1.
Capacity Building Package            No. of          West Bank    Gaza            Financing Partner
                                   Municipalities

FPPM (Financial Policies &               75               60       15       GIZ
Procedures Manual)
SDIP                                     41               31       10       AFD: 10 mun. West Bank
                                                                            MDTF: 8 mun. West Bank
                                                                            KFW: 8 mun. West Bank
                                                                            KFW: 4 mun. Gaza Strip
                                                                            GIZ: 5 mun. West Bank
                                                                            GIZ: 6 mun. Gaza Strip
FARV (Fixed Assets                        4               4         0       MDTF
Registration & Valuation)
Total Number of Municipalities           120              95       25

                            Table A2.4: Capacity-building packages in Cycle 2.
Capacity Building Package             No. of          West Bank    Gaza           Financing Partner
                                    Municipalities
FPPM (Financial Policies &               21                14           7   GIZ
Procedures Manual)
SDIP                                     49                36       13      AFD: 8 mun. West Bank
                                                                            AFD: 6 mun. Gaza Strip
                                                                            MDTF: 17 mun. West Bank
                                                                            GIZ: 11 mun. West Bank
                                                                            GIZ: 7 mun. Gaza Strip
SDIP Update                              52                42       10      AFD: 13 mun. West Bank
                                                                            MDTF: 29 mun. West Bank
                                                                            MDTF: 10 mun. Gaza
FARV (Fixed Assets                       28                26           2   MDTF
Registration & Valuation)
Total number of municipalities           98                76       22


5.     Further, 10 municipalities are benefiting from the piloting of the O&M manual
financed under Window 3.

Window 4: MDP Management

6.       This Window financed:

     •   The operating expenses of the MDLF (7 percent of all FPs grants).
     •   Technical Audit (MDTF).
     •   Municipal Infrastructure Survey (AFD).
     •   Beneficiary Satisfaction Survey (TFGWB).
     •   Communication and outreach, especially for the GAM (TFGWB, MDTF, AFD).
     •   Hiring of LTCs to support municipalities in sub-project identification, application, and
         implementation (TFGWB, MDTF, AFD, KfW).



                                                     38
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Overview
1.      The project financed municipal sub-projects through the MDLF. The funds were
allocated to municipalities to finance their priority sub-project investments according to the
conditions and processes laid out in the main text of this ICR. As actual investments were not
known at appraisal, no ex-ante analysis of expected ERRs or NPVs were carried out for any
of the MDP investments. Therefore, no comparison can be made between the expected and
actual results of MDP investments. The value added of the economic and financial analysis
for this ICR is that it demonstrates the usefulness of the methodology and the economic and
financial viability of the executed investments.

2.       Past practices for economic evaluation in the MDLF and approval of sub-project
investments (notably under the EMSRP-II, under implementation by the MDLF at the time of
appraisal of the MDP and closed in 2011) were based on verification of prior public
consultations and prioritization process in the municipalities, and whether sub-project costs
fell into the municipal allocation. A new methodology was developed for the MDP to address
the shortcoming that even if the public consultation process led to identifying priority
problems to be solved, the chosen program approach did not necessarily solve the problems in
the most efficient way. The new MDP methodology allowed the MDLF to carry out economic
and financial evaluation of sub-projects and assure cost-efficiency of investments and
equitable sharing of benefits from investments among the populations of each municipality by
analyzing Net Cost per beneficiary (NCB).

3.      The analysis carried out for the ICR shows that the methodology developed at
appraisal, and as actually implemented, supported high efficiency and equity of investments.
The approach developed for the MDP is considered as innovative for the type of project
(demand-driven sub-projects). Bank-funded projects of this type have typically struggled to
find ways to incorporate economic considerations into sub-project screening, although this is
often formally part of the screening process. Therefore, the fact of introducing a standardized
methodology in and of itself is a positive indicator of project efficiency. The actual use and
implementation of the methodology, as described below, further supports the positive
evaluation.

4.      Each of the main categories of sub-projects (roads and public buildings –
corresponding to 83.3 percent of Window 1 investments and 78.1 percent of total MDP-I
costs), are further subjected to cost-benefit analysis for the ICR. The result shows that NPV is
positive in each case, and ERRs are substantially above the opportunity cost of capital
(estimated at 8 percent for the WBG). Even with sensitivity analysis (benefit stream lower by
25 percent), the rates of return on sub-project investments are substantially above the
opportunity cost of capital. The present economic and financial analysis is valid for sub-
project investments under the MDP-I financed on all donor funds; US$67.9 million invested
under Window 1. Further, the energy efficiency pilot (investment of US$274,000 fully funded
by the Bank under Window 2) was subjected to economic analysis based on ex-post
measurements of energy savings. An overview of the results of the detailed analysis in this
Annex is presented in the table below.



                                              39
             Table A3.1: Overview of investment breakdown and results of economic analysis
                Cost of
                          Number
                  sub-                        Percentage
                           of sub- Percentage                                                 Ex-post analysis (ERR,
                projects                        of total
 Category                 projects of Window                        Ex-ante analysis          NPV, other measure) –
               analyzed                         MDP-I
                          analyzed   1 costs                                                           ERR
               (millions)     (b)                costs
                  (a)

                                                               Least cost design based on
                                                               traffic counting.              ERR: 29.7%
Roads           US$45.8        265        65.5%       63.6%
                                                               Analysis of ratios of NCB      NPV: US$48.8 M
                                                               per beneficiary.
                                                               Analysis of financial
                                                               potential of buildings,
Public                                                         market analysis,               ERR: 15.7%
                 US$6.8         50        10.0%         9.4%
facilities                                                     incorporation of O&M to        NPV: $2.5 M
                                                               assure sustainability.
                                                               Unit-cost considerations.
                                                               Least cost analysis based      Maintenance more cost-
                                                               on standard designs.           efficient than reinvesting
Wastewater                                                     Verification of ability to     in new networks.
                 US$6.9         63        10.3%         9.7%
and water                                                      cover O&M cost.
                                                               Water meters to have FRR
                                                               of at least 15%.
                                                               For equipment: Cost            Financial resources in
                                                               savings compared to            part      allocated    to
                                                               market rates, incorporation    maintenance, which is
                                                               of O&M cost.                   estimated to be more
                                                               For street lighting: Respect   cost-efficient       than
Others           US$4.5        105         6.4%         6.0%
                                                               of guidelines developed        reinvesting     in   new
                                                               for energy efficiency.         networks. Systematically
                                                               Public parks: Market           competitive bidding and
                                                               analysis, revenues to cover    request price quotations,
                                                               O&M cost, visitor count.       to assure low cost.
Energy                                                         Energy audit to evaluate
                                                                                           ERR: 22.8%
efficiency        US$0.5    4 mun.          N/A        0.7%    savings potential.
                                                                                           NPV: US$0.3 M
(Window 2)
  (a) Amounts may differ from the classification in Annex 2 due to reclassification for the economic analysis. See
  details in the Annex below.
  (b) Numbers may differ from the classification in Annex 2 due to reclassification for the economic analysis. See
  details in the Annex below.

 General considerations
 5.     The MDP introduced economic and financial analysis in the MDLF’s sub-project
 appraisal to enhance awareness and knowledge of municipal staff and the MDLF technical
 unit on cost effectiveness and cost efficiency of sub-projects. The methodology and related
 templates in Excel were developed to cover most categories of sub-projects. It was not
 intended to lead to direct rejection of sub-projects based of their Financial Rate of Return
 (FRR), ERR or other thresholds for basic economic indicators, but as a tool for dialogue
 between the MDLF and municipalities on sub-project selection and optimal designs. In each
 case, when economic indicators were not positively conclusive, the MDLF sought further
 information and clarification from the municipalities, and this lead to sub-project design being
 revised to maintain reasonable ratios.


                                                        40
6.      The application forms were developed to include a basic economic cost to benefit
assessment based on the methodology laid out below. The assessment was done by the
municipalities and screened by MDLF technical staff. The methodology foresaw that sub-
projects with a total value over US$500,000 would be subjected to full cost-benefit analysis as
part of the application; no such sub-projects were part of the MDP. Revenue-generating sub-
projects, such as public buildings with rental potential, were subjected to financial analysis,
including appraisal of market demand. In the first cycle of MDP-I, the guidelines were not
fully understood by applicants, who had difficulty to use the Excel templates. For this reason,
hard economic evaluation was not stringently applied for cycle 1, although the principles were
used during dialogue between the MDLF for selecting and designing sub-projects. In cycle 2
the methodology was simplified, with a less ambitious concept for the cost-benefit analysis,
and improved, with standard Excel evaluation for the main categories of sub-projects. For
smaller sub-projects in other sectors, the approval of the relevant technical authority was
sufficient. Further, municipal staff was trained on the concept of economic and financial
analysis and how to use the simplified methodology.

7.      The methodology was developed to promote basic techniques to analyze the projects
qualitatively and then estimate basic indicators to monitor economic outcomes and cost
effectiveness. The methodology included questionnaires to be attached to the application form
and Excel templates that deliver the basic indicators when nurtured with adequate data by the
municipalities. The methodology compared sub-projects’ costs to their benefits using simple
indicators. It also assessed sub-project effectiveness. Finally, when different alternatives were
considered, it helped deciding the least cost alternative.

8.      The economic and financial analysis took into account direct and indirect costs and
benefits. Most municipal projects were small investments leading to broad social, economic,
and environmental costs and benefits that could only be accounted for at high cost. For this
reason, no threshold was set for economic indicators below which projects were automatically
rejected; instead judgment was used to assess if the basic indicators and the multi-form
benefits of the project were high enough to justify the costs.

Ex-ante screening methodology
9.      The methodology walked the municipal technical staff through basic evaluative steps
to be answered:

   (a) What is the objective of the sub-project? What will the sub-project finance?
   (b) What will happen if the sub-project is undertaken? What if not?
   (c) What is the problem that the sub-project is trying to address?
   (d) What other solutions can solve the problem?
   (e) Are other technical alternatives envisaged?
   (f) What are the investment costs of the sub-project?
   (g) What is the average maintenance cost for the sub-project over its life expectancy?
   (h) What is the life expectancy of the sub-project?
   (i) What are the direct revenues of the sub-project? Does the sub-project result in
       savings?
   (j) What are the other expected benefits? Do they have a monetary value?



                                               41
    (k) How many people directly benefit from the sub-project? Are there secondary
        beneficiaries?

10.    After answering these basic questions, the municipality assessed the real need for the
sub-project. This step allowed the municipal staff to develop a low-cost solution to address
the problem identified. To do so, it first determined the needs for the sub-project generated
service (hours of waste truck collection, public building, etc.) within the municipal
boundaries. Then, it estimated the level of existing service. Finally it proposed to fill in the
gap without excess.

11.     The economic and financial analysis of sub-projects was based on investment costs
and operation and maintenance costs over the life cycle of the sub-project. Operation and
maintenance costs were estimated even if they would not be paid by the municipality. This
introduced an element of sustainability in the analysis, further supporting economic viability
through assuring that cost to assure continued flow of benefits was taken into account. In sub-
projects with direct financial benefits such as rent or user fees, they were estimated, and taken
into account. Revenue-generating sub-projects were required to demonstrate financial rate of
return above 15 percent to be approved. Some projects also resulted in savings; these were
regarded as benefits or revenues.

12.     For Cycle 1 the methodology used a discount rate of 5, which is considered an
appropriate rate for Palestine since the current long-term borrowing rate of public loans is
about 4 percent and projected inflation rate is quite low (about 2 percent). However, following
adjustments to the methodology and Excel templates for cycle 2 the discount rate was
increased to 8 percent to provide a more conservative estimate of the discounted benefit
stream.

13.      Some projects had indirect costs and benefits which were not taken into account in the
analysis, and might include health costs or benefits that affect people living in the sub-project
vicinity, protection of the environment, or social effects. At the preliminary screening stage,
not all these benefits were accounted for. However, although it was not easy to put a monetary
value on some of these outcomes, when feasible, all costs and benefits of a sub-project,
including direct and indirect ones, were estimated.

14.     Because not all the effects of the sub-project could be easily integrated in the
economic and financial analysis as described above, an additional indicator, NCB, was used. 7
It allowed getting a sense of the benefits of the sub-project, if not a full description. This
indicator was measured by dividing the net costs of the sub-project (costs less benefits) in
present value terms into the number of beneficiaries. In sub-projects where there were direct
and indirect beneficiaries, the number of indirect beneficiaries was attenuated by a factor
reflecting the benefits indirect beneficiaries were expected to derive from the sub-project
compared to the benefits of the direct ones. The indicator served to assure that benefits did not
only accrue to a minority in each municipality. E.g. for roads this meant that the road that


7
 Except those sub-projects without clearly identifiable beneficiaries, such as construction equipment, municipal
workshops or similar.


                                                       42
would serve only a few people living along the road, but that costs were reasonable compared
to the number of beneficiaries, which was estimated by considering factors such as whether
the road provided access to public facilities or shops as well as residents, if it was a main
entrance road to the city or a main road.

15.     The MDLF maintained a unit price database, which was updated yearly and used in
elaboration and verification of budgets and cost estimates and control of bidding prices. The
MDLF technical staff compared the indicator for each proposed project to a database of the
same indicator for similar projects and requested further information and details if the
indicator did not fall within a reasonable range (first to third quartiles). The MDLF staff only
approved a sub-project if they were fully convinced that it would benefit the population, or
requested a detailed analysis, or advised municipal staff on alternatives to enhance economic
benefit of the sub-project. The average NCB was US$90.3 in the West Bank and US$82.0 in
Gaza for cycle 1, and US$46.0 in the West Bank and US$81.0 in Gaza for cycle 2.

Ex-post methodology
Data sources
16.    The full overview of 522 sub-projects was available from the MDLF, which had
already analyzed the employment generated. Since many of the sub-projects funded by the
MDP-I were not income generating, economic benefits will be estimated as follows:

   •   Benefits of roads are quantified by the timer savings to users, and savings in vehicle
       maintenance cost.
   •   Benefits of public buildings and facilities are quantified by savings in rental cost.
       Without MDP-I sub-projects, municipalities would rent such facilities.

Discounting
17.    A discount rate of 8 percent is used in the ex-post economic analysis, as for the ex-
ante economic analysis.

Cost adjustments
18.    Financial cost of the Window 1 investments and the energy efficiency pilot are
adjusted in the following ways to estimate the economic cost:

   •   Value added tax: 15 percent of the financial cost is deducted since VAT is a transfer
       from the project to the PA budget.
   •   Costs of capacity-building activities of Window 3 and 4 were not added to the
       economic cost of investments analyzed. Even though sub-projects and the pilot would
       not be implemented without such cost, the capacity building benefits of Windows 3
       and 4 will spread to other activities of the MDLF, municipal councils, and other
       stakeholders.
   •   Investment cost is assumed to be equally distributed over four years for Window 1
       (2010-2013) and two years for Window 2 (2011-2012).




                                              43
Reclassification of sub-projects and investment cost
19.     The classification by of sub-projects by the MDLF is not conducive to economic
analysis. The road sub-projects category contains investments in rehabilitation of the actual
road surface as well as in retaining walls, drainage, and street lighting. The public building
category sub-project contains construction, rehabilitation, and public gardens. The cost of
these two categories is therefore adjusted as described in the relevant sections below.

Economic analysis of roads
20.     The MDP-I invested about US$49.0 million in 298 sub-projects in the roads category
to rehabilitate and reconstruct 310 kilometers of roads, 50 kilometers of sidewalks, 4.4
kilometers of retaining walls, 1.1 kilometer of storm water drainage, and supply over 3,000
units of street lighting. The category includes 265 sub-projects in actual road rehabilitation
(some of which include sidewalks and street lighting) for an investment of US$45.8 million,
which are subjected to economic analysis in this section.

Economic screening of roads ex-ante
21.     The general methodology for economic and financial screening, described above, was
in the case of roads complemented by peak hour traffic counting and counting of pedestrians
for each sub-project to determine the optimal width of the road and any side-walk. This
assured least-cost design of roads. The sub-project template in Excel further presented cost
per running meter as a tool for the MDLF to verify if unit-costs were reasonable. In each case,
additional justification was provided when NPV per beneficiary was above the maximum or if
the unit cost was outside the norm (e.g. road considered to be essential to the physical
cohesion of the urban space, benefits underestimated in the model).

                        Table A3.2: Example of ex-ante efficiency screening of road
                      - Rehabilitation and asphalting of internal roads in Howwara 8
    Basic data
    Costs of the investment               -77,540 EUR
    Eligible costs                      -124,064 EUR
    Own share of municipality             46,524 EUR
    Costs of maintenance (% of
                                              1%    0%         1%       1%       1%       ---   1.5%   1.5%   1.5%
    investment costs)
    Life expectancy of the project             15 years
    Discount factor                           8%
    Results
    Net cost per beneficiary (NCB)            -43 EUR
    Investment cost per beneficiary           -39 EUR
    Investment cost per running meter        -129 EUR
    Years                                       1          2        3        4        5   ---      7     14     15
    Investment                            -77,540 EUR
    Maintenance                              -775          0   -775     -775     -775     --- -1,163 -1,163 -1,163



8
    All examples are in Euros, as analyzed by the MDLF.


                                                          44
    Discounted costs                         -78,315 EUR           -665   -616    -570   ---   -733    -428       -396
    FNPV                                     -85,638 EUR
    Estimation of beneficiaries
    Number of beneficiaries for the rehabilitated street section             1,990
    Total population of the municipality                                     5,970
    Length of the roads to be rehabilitated in meters                            600
    Total length of roads in the municipality in meters                     20,000
    Amplification factor                                                     11.11
    Eligible max. road width                                                      8
    N° of vehicles at peak hour                                                   20
    Outer connection road                                                 FALSE
    Width of road in meters (including sidewalks)                                 5
    Total width of sidewalks in meters                                            0
    N° of pedestrians at peak hour-                                              200
    Amplification factor (only to be filled in for internal roads)
    Is the street one of the main entrances of the city                                                   TRUE
    If yes, how many entrances are there?                                                                     3
    Is the street a main road?                                                                            TRUE
    If yes, how many secondary roads cross it?                                                                1
    Is the street bordering houses                                                                        TRUE
    Is the street bordering three shops or more                                                           TRUE
    Is the street bordering schools, health centers, or public buildings such as municipal building?      TRUE
    If yes, how many                                                                                          2


Ex-post evaluation
22.     Cost: The cost-benefit analysis was carried out comparing the situation of roads
“without” and “with” the project, in order to determine the net effect, among other aspects, on
the net expenditure needed for the O&M of rehabilitated roads. The analysis applied the same
amount for O&M cost as the ex-ante analysis (1.5 percent of investment cost per year).

23.    Benefits: The direct benefits of roads quantified in the analysis derive from savings in
transportation time and vehicle maintenance cost, with a project lifetime of 15 years.
Additionally, the main indirect benefits (which were not quantified for the ex-post analysis)
are due to the reduction in accidents (many roads serve schools and other public buildings)
and appreciation in market values of real estate properties adjacent to the rehabilitated roads.
The time saved per passenger trip along the rehabilitated roads is estimated at about 3 minutes
and the monetary value of time saved is assumed to equal US$2.9 per hour to derive total
savings attributable to the project. 9 The quantification of benefits is based on the total



9
 Based on: (a) Average “without” project vehicle speed of 15 kilometers per hour, and “with” project speed of
45 kilometers per hour. This is realistic given that many roads were almost impassable before the project. (b)
Average length of rehabilitated roads of 1.17 kilometers (265 roads sub-projects with 310 kilometers


                                                          45
municipal population in the West Bank and Gaza and an estimate of the proportion of vehicles
that actually use the improved roads funded by the MDP-I. The calculation was further based
on an estimate of the average yearly expenditure in maintenance, at US$3.6 per vehicle using
the rehabilitated roads. The relevant number of vehicles remained the same as the one applied
for the computation of time savings. Finally, benefits were estimated to accumulate with 25
percent per year of investment, to reach full benefits after four years. Tables A3.3 and A3.4
below illustrate the calculations made to estimate both time savings and maintenance cost
savings.

24.     Assumptions: Considering that there are no technical studies available in the WBG on
passengers per vehicle and the proportions of different types of motor-vehicles, the
methodology assumed that such proportions as well as the average number of passengers per
vehicle are similar to those in other countries in the region. It was further assumed that vehicle
ownership is equal across the territory, although in reality urban areas are more affluent and a
disproportionately higher percentage of vehicles would operate in urban areas (leading to
higher benefits than in the model). The analysis assumes that the number of beneficiaries and
vehicles will grow at the same pace as the current population growth rate in the WBG (2.95
percent annually). Furthermore, based on analysis of the composition of sub-project
investments in the road category, benefits from sidewalks, street lighting, and retaining walls
made as part of the same sub-projects were not included as the benefits are difficult to
quantify. It was assumed that the financing for roads went to rehabilitation and reconstruction
of the actual road surface; benefits from auxiliary works are additional and pull the ERR and
NPV in the analysis below up.

                          Table A3.3: Road benefits – vehicle and person usage
                                                                                                  Daily
          Total                                               Total motor        Total
                           Municipal           Total motor                                     passengers
   Year population                                              vehicles      passengers
                           population         vehicles WBG                                    using rehab.
         (WBG)                                                 benefiting     (4.3 p/veh.)
                                                                                                 roads
    2010     4,045,429         3,074,526           210,199         159,751         686,930            34,346
    2011     4,166,791         3,166,761           216,505         164,544         707,538           70,754
    2012     4,291,795         3,261,764           223,000         169,480         728,764          109,315
    2013     4,420,549         3,359,617           229,690         174,564         750,627          150,125
    2014     4,553,165         3,460,406           236,581         179,801         773,146          154,629
    2015     4,689,760         3,564,218           243,678         185,195         796,340          159,268
    2016     4,830,453         3,671,144           250,988         190,751         820,230          164,046
      ---           ---                 ---             ---             ---             ---              ---
    2027     6,686,477         5,081,723           347,427         264,044       1,135,391          227,078
    2028     6,887,071         5,234,174           357,850         271,966       1,169,452          233,890




rehabilitated). (c) Average daily wage of US$22.95 in WBG in 2013 and considering that transport is essentially
an economic activity with benefits to both supply and demand side.


                                                       46
                       Table A3.4: Road benefits – time and maintenance savings
                                                                                Yearly      Total yearly
                          Daily     Time savings                 Yearly time
        Total veh. in                                                         maintenance savings, time and
   Year               passengers in   (minutes                     savings
        benef. mun.                                                             savings     maintenance
                        vehicles      per day)                      (US$)
                                                                                 (US$)         (US$)
   2010            159,751             34,346         107,144       1,869,827      567,201        2,437,028
   2011            164,544             70,754         220,716       3,851,843          584,217             4,436,060
   2012            169,480            109,315         341,007       5,951,097          601,744             6,552,841
   2013            174,564            150,125         468,316       8,172,840          619,796             8,792,636
   2014            179,801            154,629         482,365       8,418,025          638,390             9,056,415
   2015            185,195            159,268         496,836       8,670,566          657,542             9,328,108
   2016            190,751            164,046         511,741       8,930,683          677,268             9,607,951
     ---               ---                ---             ---               ---                ---                 ---
   2027            264,044            227,078         708,369      12,362,154          937,497            13,299,651
   2028            271,966            233,890         729,621      12,733,019          965,622            13,698,641


25.     Economic rate of return and NPV: The economic analysis of investments of US$49.0
million in road sub-projects (US$41.7 million less VAT) show ERR of 29.7 percent and NPV
of US$48.9 million (Table A3.5 below), demonstrating returns on investment substantially
higher than opportunity cost of capital and hence economic viability of the road investments.
Sensitivity analysis shows that if the net benefits had been 25 percent lower compared to the
base case, this would lead to ERR of 20.2 percent and NPV of US$27.5 million. These are
quite robust results, demonstrating the economic viability of public works on roads.

                             Table A3.5: Road costs and benefits – ERR and NPV
                Investment cost           O&M             Total cost   Gross benefit             Net benefits
       Year
                     (US$)                (US$)            (US$)          (US$)                    (US$)
           2010       9,733,833                      0       9,733,833     2,437,028                -7,296,805
           2011        9,733,833                146,007         9,879,840          4,436,060          -5,443,780
           2012        9,733,833                292,015     10,025,848             6,552,841          -3,473,007
           2013        9,733,833                438,022     10,171,855             8,792,636          -1,379,219
           2014                  0              584,030          584,030           9,056,415           8,472,385
           2015                  0              584,030          584,030           9,328,108           8,744,078
           2016                  0              584,030          584,030           9,607,951           9,023,921
             ---                ---                 ---               ---                ---                 ---
           2027                  0              584,030          584,030          13,299,651          12,715,621
           2028                  0              584,030          584,030          13,698,641          13,114,611
                                                                                       ERR                29.7%
                                                                                  NPV@8%             $48,878,796




                                                          47
Economic and financial analysis of public buildings
26.     The MDP-I invested about US$7.6 million in 56 sub-projects to construct and
rehabilitate public buildings and gardens. Of this, US$6.8 million was invested in 50 sub-
projects for new construction of municipal buildings, which are analyzed for the ICR.

Economic and financial screening of public buildings ex-ante
27.     The general screening methodology, described above, was in the case of public
buildings based on financial (cost-saving and revenue-generating) potential of buildings. In
each case, estimates were made of the cost-savings from not having to rent space for the
municipal functions, combined with additional rental potential from additional space
constructed (e.g. renting out space in a municipal building for private-sector operators or for
conferences and weddings). Building design is highly standardized in the WBG, so the main
justification came from demonstrating the market potential and financial viability of
investments, including by incorporating O&M cost in the analysis (e.g. cleaning, watchman,
water and electricity, and a standard percentage for building maintenance). The sub-project
template in Excel further presented cost per square meter as a tool for the MDLF to verify if
unit-costs were reasonable. In each case, additional justification was provided when NPV per
beneficiary was above the maximum or if the unit cost was outside reasonable norms (e.g.
providing a municipal building as a gathering space for the population, supporting a sense of
place and belonging, other substantial socio-economic benefits not captured by the financial
screening tool).

                       Table A3.6: Example of ex-ante screening of public building
                             - Construction of public building in Beit Liqya
  Basic data
  Costs of the investment                    -104,117 EUR
  Total additional effective building area       365 m²
  Cleaner, watchman                            -3,600 EUR     per year
  Electricity and water                        -1,800 EUR     per year
  Costs of operation                           -5,400 EUR     per year
  Costs of maintenance                         -3,000 EUR     per year
  Financial estimates
  Rent revenues per year                      32,400 EUR
  % of foreseen renting out                     20% % of rented surface or of days rented out
  Expected rent in average per month           2,700 EUR
  % used for own purposes                       80%
  Total population of municipality             8,200
  Share of population using the facility        53% Description of the user group attached to justify
  Number of beneficiaries                      4,346
  Life expectancy of the project                  50 years
  Discount factor                                5%
  Investment cost per m²                        -285 EUR
  FNPV per m²                                  1,178 EUR
  Net cost per beneficiary (NCB)                  99 EUR


                                                       48
  Expected rent / m² and month          36.99 EUR
  Cost / m² and month for own use        7.09 EUR
  Financial analysis
  Years                                 1        2        3     ---    47       48       49     50
  Own used surface                          0     292      292 ---      292      292      292    292
  Investment                         -104,117
  Maintenance                                   -3,000   -3,000 ---   -3,000   -3,000   -3,000 -3,000
  Revenues                                      32,400 32,400 --- 32,400 32,400 32,400 32,400
  Cash flow                          -104,117   29,400 29,400 --- 29,400 29,400 29,400 29,400
  Discounted cash flow               -104,117   28,000 26,667 ---     3,116    2,968    2,827   2,692
  FNPV                                430,043
  FIRR                                 28.2% EUR
  NPV/m² annual own use                     85 EUR


Ex-post evaluation
28.    Cost: The cost-benefit analysis was carried out comparing the situation “without” and
“with” the project to determine the net financial effect, including expenditure needed for the
operation (including cleaning, watchman, water, and electricity) and maintenance of buildings.
O&M was estimated at 8 percent of invested capital.

29.     Benefits: The direct benefits of public buildings quantified in the analysis derive from
cost savings in rental and additional income from renting out space (for social events or
private sector operators). Additionally, the main indirect benefits (which were not quantified
for the ex-post analysis) are due to the added value of having a clear identity of the
municipality, providing a gathering space for the local population, and appreciation in market
values of real estate properties adjacent to the buildings. Only two relatively stabilized benefit
streams were available at the time of finalizing the analysis, based on actual revenue and
savings from public buildings constructed under Cycle 1. This was found to be too limited
basis for an analysis; therefore the analysis for the ICR was carried out based on the
assumptions presented below.

30.    Assumptions: criteria to estimate economic net benefits are based on the estimated
yearly savings in expenditures in rent per square meter of 16,783 square meters of office
space constructed. The monthly savings in rent per square meter were estimated at US$6.4 for
the average sub-project (based on actual rent from the two sub-projects for which data is
available and expected rent from other sub-projects). Indirect benefits may include
productivity increases in both the municipal administration and in the services the
municipality provides to the private sector.

31.    Economic rate of return and NPV: The economic analysis of investments of US$6.8
million in construction of public buildings (US$5.8 million less VAT) show ERR of 15.70
percent and NPV of US$2.5 million (Table A3.7 below), demonstrating returns on investment
substantially higher than opportunity cost of capital and hence economic viability of
investments. Sensitivity analysis shows that if the net benefits had been 25 percent lower
compared to the base case, this would lead to ERR of 8.2 percent and NPV of US$66,599,


                                                49
only just above the opportunity cost of capital. These results are still encouraging but not as
robust as the results for roads, given the uncertainties at this point around actual rent prices
and effective usage rates of buildings.

                      Table A3.7: Public buildings costs and benefits – ERR and NPV
                    Investment cost    O&M            Total cost         Gross benefit       Net benefits
        Year
                         (US$)         (US$)           (US$)                (US$)              (US$)
         2010             1,442,786             0          1,442,786                     0       -1,442,786
         2011             1,442,786             0          1,442,786            324,688          -1,118,098
         2012             1,442,786        72,139          1,514,926            649,377            -865,549
         2013             1,442,786       144,279          1,587,065            974,065            -613,000
         2014                    0        216,418           216,418            1,298,754          1,082,336
         2015                    0        375,124           375,124            1,298,754            923,629
         2016                    0        375,124           375,124            1,298,754            923,629
              ---               ---            ---                 ---               ---                ---
         2027                    0        375,124           375,124            1,298,754            923,629
         2028                    0        375,124           375,124            1,298,754            923,629
                                                                                   ERR              15.7%
                                                                             NPV@8%             $2,486,825


Economic analysis of wastewater and water supply
32.    The MDP-I invested about US$4.2 million in 33 sub-projects to rehabilitate and
extend sewerage systems. No new wastewater treatment plants were constructed. Further
US$2.8 million were invested in 30 sub-projects to rehabilitate water supply networks.

Economic and financial screening of water supply and wastewater ex-ante
33.      The rehabilitation or replacement of a section of an existing network which may be
damaged causing environmental or health hazards and the installation of new water or
sewerage house connections under streets prior to paving required a least cost analysis based
on standard designs. An additional requirement for wastewater was that the sewers were
connecting to an operating wastewater treatment plant. In addition, the revenues in the utility
should be sufficient to cover at least the operation and maintenance costs of the water and
sewerage services. For investments which consisted mainly in the installation of water meters,
the expected increase in billing and collection efficiency was expected to result in an FRR of
at least 15 percent.

                         Table A3.8: Example of ex-ante screening of water network
                            - Rehabilitation of Anata water network (main pipe)
 Basic data
 Costs of the investment                             -37,287 EUR
 Costs of maintenance                                  -559 EUR           1.5% per year
 Financial estimates
 Revenues from connection fee                         4,000 EUR



                                                      50
 Annual revenue or loss from water sales             4,180 EUR
 Expected annual water sale per household             240 M3
 Connection fee per newly connected household         200 EUR
 Number of households newly connected                     20
 Number of households already connected               284
 Life expectancy of the project                           50 years
 Discount factor                                       5%
 Financial analysis
 Years                              1        2         3       ---     47         48         49      50
 Investment                        -37,287
 Maintenance                                  -559        -559 ---       -559      -559       -559    -559
 Revenues                           4,000    4,180     4,180 ---        4,180     4,180      4,180    4,180
 Cash flow                         -33,287   3,621     3,621 ---        3,621     3,621      3,621    3,621
 Discounted cash flow              -33,287   3,448     3,284 ---            384        366    348         332
 FNPV                              32,496 EUR
 FIRR                                11%
 NPV/m² annual own use                  85 EUR
 Amplification factor
 Number of beneficiaries                                             1994.4
 Beneficiaries new connections                                         120
 Average size of household                                                  6
 Already connected                                                    1,704
 Amplification for households connected prior to investment            10%
 FNPV per beneficiary                                                   16
 Investment cost per beneficiary                                        -19
 Revenues > maintenance cost                                         TRUE

Ex-post evaluation
34.     The project funded a wide variety of rehabilitation and network extension activities,
many of which were undertaken in connection with investments in road rehabilitation. In
some cases, the rehabilitation did not add new beneficiaries, but resulted in better service to
existing beneficiaries. Other projects consisted in installing water meters and primarily had
financial benefits. Therefore the costs and benefits are not easily quantifiable and no actual
ex-post cost-benefit analysis was carried out for this category of sub-projects. Given that
many sub-projects were carried out as rehabilitation, and that rehabilitation is more efficient
than constructing new networks, the chosen technical solutions is likely least-cost to provide
service to the maximum number of beneficiaries.

Economic analysis of other categories of sub-projects
35.     The MDP-I invested about US$4.3 million in 105 other sub-projects, which breaks
down into US$1.3 million in 28 solid waste management sub-projects, US$0.8 million in 8
electricity sub-projects, and US$2.2 million in 69 other sub-projects. The latter category
mainly covers purchase of construction equipment, street lighting, and public parks.


                                                     51
Economic screening of other sub-projects ex-ante
36.     The screening methodology was developed in Excel for construction equipment, street
lighting, and public parks. The indicators are presented in Table A3.8 below. No standard tool
was available for solid waste management and electricity sub-projects.

                      Table A3.9: Screening tool for other projects - main ratios
             Category                                                Ratios
             Construction equipment      NCB/discounted number of working hours < 90 percent
                                         of market rate
             Street lighting             NCB/ kilometer of lighted street
                                         NCB / beneficiary
                                         Investment cost / m² of building
                                         Expected rent / m² of building and month
                                         Total investment / m² of park
             Public parks                FNPV / beneficiary
                                         FNPV / visitor
                                         Projected operation and maintenance cost < projected
                                         direct revenue from the site


37.      The benefit of purchase of construction equipment was that the municipalities would
save cost compared to outsourced the services. The financial justification included the
downtime for maintenance and repairs, the liability insurance, O&M costs (including salaries
of municipal staff), etc. compared to the cost of hiring such equipment. Table A3.9 below
illustrates the methodology.

       Table A3.10: Example of ex-ante screening of purchase of construction equipment
                              - Purchase of bob-cat in Quaffin
Basic data
Costs of the investment                  -54,600 EUR
                                                          Plan of construction measures over coming five
Hours of own activity / year                450 h
                                                          years attached, relate to foreseen hours of activity
Hours of planned renting out / year         150 h
Price for renting out equipment / hour       30 EUR       Market rent for this type of equipment per hour
Financial estimates
Savings                                  13,500 EUR       per year
Expected revenue                         18,000 EUR       per year
Cost of staff                              -700 EUR       per year
Cost of fuel, lubricants, depreciation    -9,210 EUR      per year
Insurances, taxes                          -300 EUR       per year
Costs of operation                       -10,210 EUR      per year
Cost of maintenance (1%)                   -546 EUR       per year
Life expectancy of the investment            10 years
Discount factor                             5%
Financial analysis



                                                     52
Years                               1           2           3       ---     7           8          9          10
Hours of own operation                  450         450         450 ---         450         450        450     450
Investment                       -54,600
Revenues                          18,000      18,000       18,000 ---     18,000      18,000      18,000     18,000
Operation and maintenance        -10,756 -10,756 -10,756 ---              -10,756     -10,756     -10,756 -10,756
Discounted cash flow             -47,356       6,899        6,571 ---      5,406       5,148       4,903      4,670
FNPV                               4,133 EUR
Discounted working hours           3,475


38.     The street lighting sub-projects provided benefits mainly in terms of improved security
and safety, and more economic activity during the dark hours of the day. Electricity sub-
projects were required to be cost-efficient with regard to investment and operation and
maintenance and respect the guidelines developed for energy efficiency.

39.      The investments in public parks were considered to be important for social coherence
and well-being, especially for densely urbanized areas. To assure adequate maintenance,
which was a main concern, MDP-I gave priority to projects that responded to a demand and
for which the municipality could demonstrate that operating costs (watering, gardening, solid
waste management) could be covered from site specific revenues (e.g. parking tickets,
entrance fees, or rental revenue from small shops or restaurants). For existing facilities, the
assessment included a visitor count and an evaluation which share of the population uses the
facility.

Ex-post evaluation
40.     No ex-post cost-benefit analysis was carried out for these categories of sub-projects.
The analysis of the public works in these categories of sub-projects reveals that financial
resources were in part allocated to maintenance, which is estimated to be more cost-efficient
than reinvesting in new networks. Cost-efficiency methods were applied for the assessment of
the economic merits of these expenditures (constituting US$4.4 million in total
disbursements). It was verified that the MDLF's procurement system did in fact systematically
require competitive bidding and request price quotations, as part of established selection
procedures, for ensuring low maintenance costs, and still ensuring the compliance with
minimum acceptable technical specifications. Consequently, it may be considered that the
execution of investments in these categories of sub-projects met cost-efficiency standards.

Financial analysis of energy efficiency pilot
41.    The MDP-I invested US$533,547 in an energy efficiency pilot in four municipalities
(Qalqilya, Anabta, Jericho, and Hebron). The objectives of the energy efficiency pilot was to:

    •   Test innovative approaches to enhance municipal revenue generation.
    •   Reduce operating costs through promoting of energy efficiency initiatives.
    •   Contribute to improved environment.

42.     Based on prior auditing of savings potentials, investments and installations were made
in buildings, street lighting, waste water, and heating-ventilation-air-condition. At the end of


                                                      53
the trial period, measurements were carried out to verify savings, followed by a workshop and
post-evaluation. The results, presented in the tables below, show NPV of US$310,956 and
ERR of 22.8 percent for an investment of US$533,547 (US$463,954 less VAT). This result is
based on a project lifetime of 10 years (considering the expected life-span of equipment) and
yearly operation and maintenance cost at 10 percent of investment cost. The simple pay-back
period is low, at only 2.2 years. These results are based on financial gains to the
municipalities and do not quantify economic benefits form CO2 savings, which are additional.
Sensitivity analysis was done on the project life span, showing that even with an estimated
project life-span of only 5 years, the NPV remains positive, at US$41,143, and ERR is 3.2
percent.

                           Table A3.11: Benefits from energy efficiency pilot
     Parameter                                             Savings over pilot      Savings assumption
                                                           period 2011-2012            2011-2013
                                                             (18 months)              (36 months)
     Total savings (kWh)                                       1,523,235               3,046,470
     Total annual environmental savings (kg CO2/year)          1,599,402                3,198,804
     Saving (US$)                                               240,607                  481,213
     Simple payback time (years)                                     2.2                   2.2


                      Table A3.12: Economic analysis of energy efficiency pilot

                                                    Annualized          Value of        Present value
                    Investment        O&M            savings           annualized        of benefits
        Year           cost           Cost            (kWh)           savings (US$)         (US$)
        2011             231,977               0                 0                0          -231,977
        2012            231,977          46,395           507,745             80,202         -151,775
        2013                             46,395          1,015,490           160,404         114,009
        2014                             46,395          1,015,490           160,404         114,009
        2015                             46,395          1,015,490           160,404         114,009
        2016                             46,395          1,015,490           160,404         114,009
        2017                             46,395          1,015,490           160,404         114,009
        2018                             46,395          1,015,490           160,404         114,009
        2019                             46,395          1,015,490           160,404         114,009
        2020                             46,395          1,015,490           160,404         114,009
        2021                             46,395          1,015,490           160,404         114,009
        2022                             46,395          1,015,490           160,404         114,009
       Total            463,954         463,954         10,662,645          1,684,246        756,338
                                                                               EIRR              22.8%
                                                                           NPV @ 8%          310,956


43.    As a result of the positive results, energy efficiency initiatives are being mainstreamed
into Window 1 under MDP-II. A manual is available for the municipalities.



                                                   54
44.     The importance of these results is further demonstrated by looking at the impact on the
overall fiscal situation of the PA. Municipalities pay for electricity directly to the Israeli
Electricity Company, but often incur arrears due to a tight fiscal situation in the municipalities.
When municipalities do not pay the utility bills, the GOI deducts the corresponding amount
from the clearance revenues due to the PA, a situation known as “net lending” and which
transfers municipal budget deficits (arrears in payment of electricity bill) directly to the PA
budget. Reducing electricity consumption in the WBG municipalities thus has the potential to
contribute to reducing net lending.

45.      Based on prior auditing of savings potentials, investments and installations were made
in buildings, street lighting, waste water, and heating-ventilation-air-condition. At the end of
the trial period, measurements were carried out to verify savings, followed by a workshop and
post-evaluation. The results, presented in the tables below, show NPV of US$176,140 and
ERR of 23.2 for an investment of US$274,536 (US$233,356 less VAT). This result is based
on a project lifetime of 10 years (considering the expected life-span of equipment) and yearly
operation and maintenance cost at 10 percent of investment cost. The simple pay-back period
is low, at only three years. These results are based on financial gains to the municipalities and
do not quantify economic benefits form CO2 savings, which are additional. Sensitivity
analysis was done on the project life span, showing that even with an estimated project life-
span of only 5 years, the NPV remains positive, at US$58,515, and ERR is 7.6 percent.




                                               55
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
            Names                                 Title              Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
                                                                          Infrastructure/
Zeyad Abu-Hassanein            Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist   MNSWA environmental
                                                                          safeguards
Khalida Seif El-Din Al-Qutob   Program Assistant                   MNCGZ
Meskerem Brhane                Sr. Urban Specialist                 EASIN TTL
Lina Abdallah                  Urban Specialist                    MNSSU Operations, M&E
Sabine Beddies                 Sr. Social Development Specialist   MNSSU
Lamis Aljounaidi               Junior Professional Associate       MNSTI Transport
Afaf Khalil Abbasi             Procurement Specialist              MNAPC
Lina Tutunji                   Procurement Specialist              MNAPC
Ahmed Merzouk                  Sr. Procurement Specialist          SARPS
Suhair M. Saah                 Consultant                          MNAFM
Deepali Tewari                 Sr. Municipal Dev. Specialist       MNSSU
Mario Zelaya                   Consultant                          MNSSU Engineering
Hernando Garzon                Consultant                          MNSSU Municipal finance
Samira Hillis                  Operations Officer                  MNSSP
                                                                          Infrastructure/
Zeyad Abu-Hassanein            Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist   MNSWA environmental
                                                                          safeguards
Supervision/ICR
Lina Abdallah                  Urban Specialist                    MNSSU Operations, M&E
                                                                          Infrastructure/
Zeyad Abu-Hassanein            Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist   MNSWA environmental
                                                                          safeguards
Khalida Seif El-Din Al-Qutob   Program Assistant                   MNCGZ
Lamis Aljounaidi               Junior Professional Associate       MNSTI Transport
Meskerem Brhane                Sr. Urban Specialist                 EASIN TTL
Lina Fathallah Rajoub          Procurement Specialist              MNAPC
Samira Ahmed Hillis            Sr. Operations Officer              MNSSP
Majd Laisoon                   Consultant                          MNAFM
Suhair M. Saah                 Consultant                          MNAFM
Christianna Johnnides          Urban Specialist                    MNSSU TTL, ICR
Hana Salah                     Consultant                          MNSF1 Social safeguards
Basheer Jaber                  Consultant                          MNAPC Procurement
Nadi Mashni                    Financial Management Specialist     MNAFM
Christian Eghoff               Consultant                          MNSSU ICR primary author
Noriko Oe                      Consultant                          MNSSU Municipal finance
                                                                          Municipal finance,
Hernando Garzon                Consultant                          MNSSU
                                                                          economic analysis
Verena Pfeiffer                Consultant                          MNSSU Municipal finance,



                                                   56
                                                                        economic analysis
Sabine Beddies            Sr. Social Development Specialist    MNSSU
                                                                     Financial
Suhair J. D. Musa         Consultant                           MNAFM
                                                                     management
Mario Zelaya              Consultant                           MNSSU Engineering
Soraya Goga               Lead Urban Specialist                MNSSU TTL
Mary Koussa               Public Information Assistant         MNCGZ Communication
Florencia Liporaci        Sr. Program Assistant                MNSSD
Alexandra Ortiz           Sector Leader                        LCSSD ICR peer reviewer
Barjor Mehta              Lead Urban Specialist                SASDU ICR peer reviewer

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending                                       57.50                      229.30
Supervision/ICR                               94.17                      478.18
Total:                                      151.67                       707.48




                                           57
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

1.     A client and citizen satisfaction survey was carried out as baseline in September 2009
and repeated in 2012 (report finalized in March 2013). The methodology and results are
summarized here.

Scope and methodology
2.      In September 2009 a baseline assessment was conducted to assess the satisfaction of
citizens with the performance of their municipalities, and to assess the satisfaction of
municipal staff with the performance of the MDLF. In 2013 the same company was
commissioned to undertake a post assessment of municipal staff and citizen satisfaction at the
end of MDP-I to compare to the 2009 baseline.

3.     In addition to the above-mentioned respondents, the 2013 survey also covered citizens
and organizations that participated in SDIP processes and LTCs who supported the
municipalities in the infrastructure projects and in preparing the SDIPs. The updated
assessment also serves as baseline for MDP-II. Main changes between the first and second
survey included the inclusion of councilors and increasing qualitative data collection via focus
groups and key informant interviews.

4.       The surveys were conducted as follows:

     •   Baseline questionnaire for citizens’ in 2009, repeated in 2013 for citizens living in
         urban locations benefiting from Window 1 sub-projects as well as citizens living in
         urban locations which did not benefit from Window 1.
     •   Municipal staff questionnaire in 2009 and again in 2013 targeting municipal staff
         involved in the implementation of Window 1 sub-projects.
     •   Focus group discussions in 2009 and again in 2013 which targeted the citizens living
         in localities that benefited from the MDP (Window 1 and Window 3).

5.       Two additional questionnaires were developed in 2013 for the following groups:

     •   Citizens and organizations that participated in SDIP process.
     •   LTCs that supported the municipalities in the infrastructure projects and in preparing
         the SDIPs.

6.     The sample design and selection was similar for the two surveys, with details for the
second survey presented here:

     •   Citizens: 1,230 citizens selected in 31 municipalities using stratified multistage cluster
         sampling. The sample was stratified according to the size of each municipality in
         accordance with the MOLG size and administrative classification (A, B, C, D) and
         according to geographical area (West Bank and Gaza). Within each municipality 25 to
         40 households were selected, half of them located in the areas that benefited from
         Window 1 sub-projects and the other half selected from the areas not benefiting from
         Window 1 sub-projects. Then the individuals within the household were selected using


                                                58
       Kish method to guarantee a random and representative sample, in terms of age and
       gender.
   •   Municipal staff: 199 municipal staff were selected from 70 municipalities distributed
       in the WBG. The selection of municipalities was based on stratified systematic
       random sampling. The stratification was based on the MOLG size classification, the
       benefit from the SDIPs projects and according to geographical area (West Bank and
       Gaza). Two to three municipal staff were interviewed from each selected municipality.
   •   Citizens and organizations participating in the SDIP process survey: 165 citizens and
       representatives of local organization were selected for this survey. The 165
       respondents were selected from 28 municipalities which received support to
       elaborating SDIPs. Three to seven persons who participated in SDIP preparation
       process were selected for each one of the 28 municipalities.
   •   Local technical consultants: All the LTC staff (14) who supported the municipalities
       in the infrastructure and SDIP projects were interviewed; 6 interviews were conducted
       with infrastructure consultants and 8 with SDIP consultants.
   •   Focus group discussions: Nine focus groups were conducted; six in the West Bank
       (two in each of North, Center and South of West Bank) and three in Gaza. Each focus
       group included nine to 13 participants. In total, 103 persons participated in the focus
       groups; 51 of them were males and 52 were females. The ages of participants were
       between 20 and 58 years.

7.     Questionnaires and responses were centralized in the survey company’s headquarters,
reviewed, and post-coded (in the case of open-ended questions). Data entry was done in
Access 2007 database and data was checked for errors or outliers. After the cleaned files were
produced, data were analyzed using SPSS software.

Results
8.      The results of the surveys and interviews were for the most part positive and indicated
improvements from 2009 but highlighted some reoccurring issues. The effects of the MDP-I
were clear on some of the services but issues that extended beyond the capacity of the
municipalities may have skewed the perceptions of respondents. Furthermore, it was clear that
the main reasons behind many of the issues mentioned throughout were related to shortage of
funds for investments. The numbers are presented in Table A5.1 and elaborated more in the
text below.

9.      The surveys show upwards tendencies for overall satisfaction with service delivery
and quality of the municipal administration, although the trend for individual services is not
uniform. The 2012 survey showed that overall satisfaction with services in areas not
benefiting from MDP sub-projects had actually declined to 45 percent in 2012. Since, the
overall satisfaction with services had increased in MDP areas (from 50 percent in 2009 to 57
percent in 2012), this is enough to allow us to affirm that the upwards tendency in MDP-areas
is statistically significant. Each of the areas of citizen satisfaction with municipal
administration showed improvement over the period, although from a low base in some cases.
It might have been expected that the satisfaction with transparency had increased more, given
the effort by municipalities to publish SDIPs, budgets, external audits and rankings; the
underlying reason should be examined more.


                                              59
                           Table A5.1: Results of Citizen Satisfaction Survey

     Type of service                        2009                                       2012
                             Satisfaction (%) Overall score (%)         Satisfaction (%) Overall Score (%)
 Electricity                       65.1                                       58.1
 Water                             42.7                                       54.8
 Sewage                            57.8                                       68.4                   57.1
                                                         50.0                                    (non-MDP
 Solid Waste                       52.3                                       50.6
                                                                                                  areas: 45)
 Roads                             49.7                                       58.7
 Parks                             51.8                                       32.3
 Interaction                       68.8                                        72.5
 Awareness                         18.6                                        33.4
                                                          N/A                                        N/A
 Public Participation              16.4                                        23.2
 Transparency                      34.8                                        36.6
Source: Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics: Citizen satisfaction with municipal service delivery in 2009 and
2012. March 2013. Satisfaction refers to responses of “satisfactory” and “highly satisfactory” on a 5-pont scale.

10.      The survey measuring the citizen satisfaction with the municipality highlighted major
areas of improvement from 2009 with regard to municipal services. Specifically, essential
services such as potable water witnessed overall improvement from 2009 to 2012, especially
in the historically contaminated waters of Gaza where the satisfaction with water quality
doubled but quality still remains well below international standards. Moreover, there was
improvement in delivery management of the services and dealing with the citizens as
improved ratings were recorded for continuity of services without cut-offs and the dealing
with problems and deficiencies on time, in addition to high satisfaction with the municipal
staff’s treatment and interaction with the citizens.

11.     One of the services rated less positively in 2012 was solid waste collection where
citizens requested more frequent rounds of solid waste collection and an increase in bins.
However, it was cited that lack of budgets hinder the municipalities’ ability to collect solid
waste in a timely manner, especially with few staff.

12.     It is interesting to note that citizens were mostly satisfied with the opening of new
roads and rehabilitation of roads with their satisfaction also significantly increasing from 2009.
However some aspects of road service did not fare well, such as the availability of speed
bumps, retaining walls, and road signs. The increase of new roads and the rehabilitation of
others, as attested to by the citizens, have increased the needs for road services that may
otherwise be outside of municipal budgets. Consultants working with the municipalities,
especially those consulting on infrastructure, expressed a great need to increase the budget.

13.     Other key points from the citizen survey are the increased levels of participation and
interaction with the municipality and a much higher level of overall awareness by the citizens,
specifically increased awareness for projects implemented by the municipality where the
awareness doubled between 2009 and 2013. Participation, transparency, and awareness can be
said to be still low, but rising.




                                                       60
Citizens participating in developing SDIPs
14.     Responses from citizens who participated in developing SDIPs indicated that the
citizens were very pleased with the part they played and with the activities involved. The
biggest concern of the participants was the level of promotion of the activities related to the
SDIP preparation but the majority still felt that it was enough. Others were not very pleased
about the level of participation from the community citing that not all segments of the
community were fairly represented. It is true that the majority of the participants were male
but the number of females who participated was relatively good considering the norms and
culture of the region.

Municipal staff survey
15.     The municipal staff members were generally pleased with the interaction and
communication with the MDLF. The main issues that were mentioned by the employees
concerning their relationship with the MDLF were mostly related to the funding provided as
there was a sense by some that their municipality deserved more than what was provided
based on the needs of the projects proposed. Other issues included the communication with
the MDLF where some wanted a more direct communication method with concerned persons
at the MDLF instead of having to go through someone else or through the consultant.

16.     Although the municipal staff were mostly satisfied with the support given by the
MDLF, they cited some issues relating to the complicated procedures involved as part of the
projects. These issues with the procedures were also recognized by the consultant but the
consultants related these issues more to the skills of the municipal staff.

17.     The majority of staff expressed that funding is not enough in order to fully achieve the
objectives of the projects. Although they realize that the MDLF funds are limited, half still
think that those funds are not being fairly allocated. This issue is mainly related to the GAM
and not the MDLF performance as the staff felt that the allocation should be based on the
needs instead of the municipalities’ performance ranking. That said the overwhelming
majority of staff members feel that the MDLF is clear about the municipal rankings and also
the majority said the MDLF gives the municipalities a chance to appeal the ranking.

Consultant survey
18.     The consultants of both the infrastructure and the SDIP projects turned out to have big
roles to play in the project. Their input was for the most part appreciated and needed by the
majority of the municipal staff to such an extent that some mentioned that there are not
enough consultants. The consultants were mainly concerned about the capacity of the
municipalities as they believed that some of the staff are not qualified to do their job while
others citing that the municipalities expect too much from the consultant.

19.     As for the project procedures and regulations, the majority of the consultants were
satisfied but cited complication with some of the procedures that have created confusion for
the municipalities, mainly because they feel that the staff is not adequately trained or prepared
to handle some of the tasks. However, the consultants indicated that this is part of the learning
curve and they have already seen improvement in the municipalities overall culture.




                                               61
20.    All the consultants indicated that the projects meet the needs of the citizens and more
funding is needed to fully cover those needs.




                                             62
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

No stakeholder workshop was held.




                                       63
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.     The borrower’s ICR, prepared by the MDLF, was provided to the Bank in October
2013, and is presented below. It is edited for consistency with the rest of the document
regarding layout and acronyms. The Bank ICR was shared with the MDLF for comments. By
email of April 16, 2014 the MDLF confirmed that they had no comments on the Bank’ ICR.

                           Municipal Development Project Phase 1
                                MDPI – Completion Report

                                     Submitted By:
                         Municipal Development and Lending Fund
                                   (MDLF) - Palestine

                                        October, 2013

I. Context, Development Objectives, and Design
 Project context: why was the project initiated?
2.     Despite the continued emergency and conflict, the PA, with substantial support from
the international community, has moved ahead with creating the institutional structures
required to provide needed services to the Palestinian people. It has articulated a national
development agenda in its PRDP (2008-2010) in December 2007.

3.      The PRDP recognizes that for LGs to provide effective services for their citizens, they
need to be better managed and more accountable. It, therefore, highlights the need to build the
operational, administrative, and financial management capacity of LGs. It calls for new
legislation to clarify and regulate the relationship between central administration and LGs and
to establish a policy framework which promotes fiscal autonomy and discipline at the local
level. The MOLG is taking the lead on policy formulation and oversight of the LG sector,
while the MDLF is charged with implementing PA policies.

4.      The MDP contributes to the implementation of the reform agenda highlighted in the
PRDP – improved local governance and accountability. Improved local governance is
expected to lead to better service provision to citizens. Furthermore, it contributes to state-
building as it lays the foundations for more sustainable LGs, making them less aid dependent.
The MDP lays the groundwork for a future sector-wide approach, building on a legacy of
effective coordination among the FPs.

 Original Project Development Objectives
5.     The MDP is a multi-phase national program which provides municipalities with a
combination of technical assistance and annual performance based grants for sub-projects that
improve service delivery. The formula for performance grants is designed to create incentives
for municipalities to progress towards creditworthiness. The MDP has a three-stage hierarchy
of objectives, as described below:




                                              64
           (a) Sector-Level objective: Drawing on the MDLF’s institutional mandate and vision, over
               the long-term the MDP contributes to strengthening municipal governance to enable
               municipalities to become creditworthy and thereby access resources from the market
               for investments that will enhance service delivery. At present, no municipalities are
               creditworthy.
           (b) Program-Level objective: Drawing on the PRDP, over the medium-term, subsequent
               phases of the MDP will be designed to support municipalities in providing better
               coverage and improved quality of services.
           (c) Objective of the First Phase of the MDP: Over the short-term, the MDP – Phase 1,
               will support municipalities in improving their management/governance practices.

       Financing Partners
      6.     The MDP is supported by the Palestinian National Authority along with the Agence
      Française de Development (AFD), the Danish Government, the Swedish International
      Development Cooperation Agency (Sida), the World Bank, the German Development Bank
      (KfW), and the German International Technical Cooperation (GIZ). Furthermore, the savings
      from the KfW under the EMSRP-II with an amount of EUR 1,640,094 was invested in
      Window 1 of the MDP 1 – Cycle 1. In addition to that, the Kingdom of Belgium has
      committed to supporting the MDP through its ongoing program (Local Government Reform
      and Development Programme) and starting from the 2nd cycle of MDP Phase 1. All the 1st
      cycle agreements were signed in late 2009, with the exception of Sida and Denmark who
      chose to finance the MDP through a trust fund administered by the World Bank. The
      agreement was signed on June 10th, 2010. The total allocated amount for the 1st cycle fund
      was EUR 30,004,263.

      7.      With regard to the 2nd cycle funds, some of the agreements were signed in late 2011,
      particularly the World Bank amendment and the AFD agreement. However, the other funding
      agreements were signed during the 1st half of 2012. The total allocated amount for the 2nd
      cycle fund was EUR 29,706,587. Table A7.1 below illustrates the funding amounts, the
      signature dates and the completion dates for both cycle agreements of MDP Phase 1.

                Table A7.1: MDP Financing Partners Contribution for the 1st and 2nd cycles.

   Donor        Amount         Signature Date    Completion date as     Amount         Signature Date    Completion date as
               (1st cycle)                       per the Agreement     (2nd cycle)                       per the Agreement

GIZ            € 450,000     November 12, 2009   March 31, 2012          € 300,00    June 27, 2012        March 31, 2015
KfW           € 7,500,000    December 6, 2009    December 6, 2012      € 9,500,000   February 14, 2012 February 14, 2015
AFD           € 3,200,000    April 6, 2010       December 31, 2012     € 6,000,000   December 21, 2011 December 31, 2014
World Bank    $10,000,000    October 29, 2009    August 31, 2013       $ 2,000,000   December, 21, 2011 August 31, 2013
MDTF          $13,477,042    June 10, 2010       August 31, 2013      $ 12,209,718   June 27, 2012        August 31, 2013
The Kingdom        ---                 ---               ---           € 1,000,000   This contribution to MDP is allocated
of Belgium                                                                           under the third component of the ongoing
                                                                                     Local Government Reform &
                                                                                     Development Programme, with total
                                                                                     amount of €3 million distributed on MDP
                                                                                     cycles.




                                                           65
8.     In addition to the above listed agreements, 10 percent of the total fund excluding the
share of (AFD in Cycle 1 and the Belgian contribution in Cycle 2) is to be funded by the PA
and will be invested in Window 1.

 Main Beneficiaries
9.     The MDP - Phase I has reached 132 municipalities (107 in WB and 25 in Gaza) during
the implementation of Cycle 1, however, additional two newly amalgamated municipalities in
the West Bank were targeted by MDP-I Cycle 2. It is worth mentioning that about 75 percent
of the Palestinian population is served by municipal services in a total population of
3,147,560 inhabitants (53.5 percent in the West Bank and 46.5 percent in the Gaza Strip).
More specifically, and based on the data received from the municipalities regarding the
Window 1 sub-projects, the total number of direct beneficiaries was estimated at 2,117,160
inhabitants, (55 percent in the West Bank and 45 percent in the Gaza Strip).

 Project Components
10.       The MDP has four Windows as follows:

          Window 1 - Provides municipalities with performance-based grants for municipal
          service delivery, using the newly created GAM. Municipalities decide on how to use
          the funds based on their SDIP and consultation with citizens.
          Window 2 - Promotes learning and innovation to facilitate municipal development,
          including implementation of national policy directives. The MDP supports the PA in
          its goal to encourage amalgamation of LGs to achieve better efficiencies and
          economies of scale. It also establishes pilot programs to improve revenue collection,
          responsiveness, and community involvement.
          Window 3 - Helps municipalities to improve their performance rankings in
          accordance to the GAM. It provides technical assistance to improve financial
          management, planning capacities and technical capabilities, particularly in O&M.
          Window 4 - Provides funding for program management, client and citizen satisfaction
          assessments, technical assistance for municipalities, and outreach programs to make
          sure citizens and municipal leaders have a full understanding of the GAM and the
          MDP development objectives. It helps citizens to understand where their municipality
          is ranked, and encourages leaders to meet higher performance levels.

II. Key factors affecting implementation
11.   The challenges that have faced the implementation of MDP-I have resulted in delaying
a number of key activities in both cycles of MDP-I. Below are the main challenges:

      •      Market conditions: Limited resources among the local service providers resulting
             in re-tendering some assignments.
      •      Municipal Capacity: Municipalities have widely varying capacity that is
             influenced by:




                                               66
           o Lack of certain specialties, understaffing, overload of routine works and multi-
               tasking, and bureaucracy in some municipalities caused delays in collection
               and verification of data.
           o Limited commitment of some decision makers towards reforms in management.
           o Dependency on the consultants to execute capacity-building packages.
   •       Political conditions: Delays in the start of implementation of capacity-building
           packages due to the Israeli war on Gaza in November 2012 and the local elections
           for the majority of municipalities in the West Bank, which took place in October
           2012.
   •       Low capacity of municipalities’ staff in evaluation, bidding documents preparation
           and project supervision. Some of the municipal engineers are working in
           municipalities as a part time, and working in more than one municipality; this
           required more efforts from LTCs.
   •       Some municipalities did not assign site engineers for following up on the
           implementation of MDP projects. Accordingly, in many cases, the technical output,
           coordination with LTC, and following the project in terms of technical,
           administrative, and financial issues was not satisfactory.
   •       Municipalities are not ready to implement the strategic plan projects (lands, master
           plan, or governmental permits).
   •       Procedures in the large municipalities in the evaluation of biddings documents
           took longer time than what was expected by the LTCs and the MDLF engineers.
   •       There have been delays observed in progress of work especially in the projects
           funded by the PA. Delay in no objection to award and delay in paying bills to
           contractors.

III. Assessment of MDP-I results
Program Overall Objective: To improve the quality and coverage of municipal service
delivery.

Indicator 1: At the end of each program phase, municipalities are rated satisfactorily on
the quality and coverage of service delivery by citizens, through citizen satisfaction
surveys.

During the implementation of MDP, the need was identified to more systematically apply
social accountability, which has 4 pillars: (i) transparency, (ii) (participation), (iii) response,
and (iv) monitoring. It is defined as an approach that works to strengthen accountability and
improve efficiency of public agencies by involving citizens and civil society organizations in
policy decisions and in monitoring public programs. It is a way to make government work
more effectively by enabling citizens to articulate their needs, demand greater inclusiveness
and equity in policymaking and service delivery, and express their satisfaction or
dissatisfaction with government performance. One goal of social accountability is to restore or
strengthen the social contract between municipalities and their citizens. MDP has enhanced
the municipalities’ transparency and response, as well as public participation through sub-
project design/implementation, design of SDIPs, and effectiveness of municipal OSSs/public
relations units. However, more needs to be done, especially on third-party monitoring.



                                                67
In the same context, a specific indicator related to citizens satisfaction survey or the municipal
services provision was set to be part of the MDP-I results framework. To measure this
indicator the MDLF had contracted a consultancy firm to conduct a Client and Citizens
Satisfaction Assessment as a post evaluation of the MDP-I by combining two surveys: (a)
MDLF clients’ satisfaction survey with municipalities and (b) citizens satisfaction survey with
municipalities’ performance. In particular, the aims of the assignment are to:

   •       Assess the satisfaction of municipalities with the performance of the MDLF.
   •       Assess the satisfaction of citizens with the performance of municipalities.
   •       Performing comparative analysis between the situation before and after the MDP-
           I, i.e. between the 2009 baseline and the 2012 survey.
   •       Develop recommendations and lessons learned, based on the empirical findings, to
           address the identified performance concerns for the MDLF and municipalities -
           that are within the realm of both entities.

This assessment was utilized specifically for evaluation purposes of the MDP Phase 1 and
will be used as baseline for the upcoming MDP - Phase 2.

   •       The results of the Customer and Citizen Satisfaction surveys were for the most part
           positive and indicated improvements from 2009 but highlighted some reoccurring
           issues (for example shortage of solid waste containers, water shortage and
           electricity cuts in Gaza, prepaid metering, and insufficient spaces for green areas.)
   •       The effects of the MDP-I were clear on some of the services’ coverage and quality,
           such as roads and citizen support centers (where applicable), but issues that
           extended beyond the capacity of the municipalities, such as prices of certain
           municipal services as purchased from the Israeli sources, and water sources, may
           have skewed the perceptions of respondents.
   •       The descriptive table below shows the 2009 base line scores of municipal services
           compared with 2012 survey scores of the citizens who benefited from the MDP-I
           interventions.
   •       Finally, the total score was calculated by summing the weighted scores for all
           services together. The Customer and Citizen Satisfaction Survey results report
           includes more details.




                                               68
                    Table A7.2: Results of Customer and Citizen Satisfaction Survey.

             Item                              2009                                       2012
                               Satisfaction Score        Overall        Satisfaction Score         Overall
                                                          score                                     Score

 Electricity                           65.1                50.0                58.1                 57.1
 Water                                 42.7                                    54.8
 Sewage                                57.8                                    68.4
 Solid Waste                           52.3                                    50.6
 Roads                                 49.7                                    58.7
 Parks and entertainment               51.8                                    32.3
 Interaction                           68.8                 ---                72.5                  ---
 Awareness                             18.6                                    33.4
 Public Participation                  16.4                                    23.2
 Transparency                          34.8                                    36.6
*Satisfaction refers to responses of “satisfactory” and “highly satisfactory” on a 5-pont scale.

                       Chart A7.1: Citizen Satisfaction Results (2009 versus 2012)




Indicator 2: Percentage of coverage of municipal services (households, neighborhoods)
through MDP-financed investments as shown in the MDLF municipal infrastructure
database.

    •        This indicator was measured through a post survey of the municipal infrastructure
             database. This assessment was conducted by the Palestinian Central Bureau of
             Statistics as a single source where the results indicated such improvements in
             coverage of municipal services and municipal infrastructure.
    •        The assessment indicated improvements in municipal infrastructure coverage at
             the municipal level in water, wastewater, roads, and electricity.




                                                        69
       •       MDP-I has noticeable contribution in the overall change, in particular roads
               construction and rehabilitation.
       •       The MDP-I contribution is 14.7 percent (overall), (10.3 percent WB), (34 percent
               Gaza) of the total invested amounts in municipalities over the last three years
               (2010, 2011, 2012) regarding the infrastructure coverage and services quality.

        Chart A7.2: MDP-I contribution to municipal infrastructure services (2010, 2011, 2012)




                 Table A7.3a: Achievement of PDO and intermediate results indicators.
Project Development Objective (PDO) : To improve municipal management practices for better transparency
    Indicators     Baseline       End of cycle 1       End of cycle 2                   Comments
                    (end of        (mid 2011)           (end of 2012)
                     2009)      Target    Achieve   Target     Achieved
                                             d
The percentage of      0         15%       86%       30%         95.5%    This PDO Indicator is surpassed.
municipalities                                                            The municipal graduation by end of
that graduate up                                                          MDPI is described as follows:
the performance                                                           Graduated E-C: 18
category in which                                                         Graduated E-B: 8
they are currently                                                        Graduated D-C: 58
classified, by the                                                        Graduated D-B: 32
end of phase 1                                                            Graduated C-B : 14
                                                                          No change: 4 (2 in C, 2 in E)
                                                                          Backward (E-F): 1 (Al Oja)
                                                                          Noting that the graduation was
                                                                          measured in accordance to the
                                                                          difference of municipal ranking
                                                                          between 2009 and 2012 (following
                                                                          appeal).
                                                                          It is worth mentioning that the
                                                                          assessment was done based on the
                                                                          compliance of municipalities with 12
                                                                          KPIs indicated in the transfer
                                                                          mechanism for MDPI. The auditing
                                                                          was done by a consultancy firm.




                                                     70
                                Chart A7.3: Municipal Ranking (2009 -2012)




                 Table A7.3b: Achievement of PDO and intermediate results indicators.
Project Development Objective (PDO) : To improve municipal management practices for better transparency
   Indicators       Baseline        End of cycle 1          End of cycle 2                  Comments
                     (end of          (mid 2011)            (end of 2012)
                      2009)      Target      Achieved     Target    Achieved

Percentage of       0            30%           68%          60%          68%       This PDO indicator is
municipalities that                                                                surpassed:
apply at least two                                                                 SDIP disclosure:
public disclosure                                                                  (119 out of 129) – 92%
methods (publicly                                                                  External Audit disclosure:
available SDIPs,                                                                   (41 out of 61) – 67%
annual external                                                                    Municipal budgets disclosure:
audits, project                                                                    (75 out of 134) - 56%
related data,                                                                      Ranking disclosure :
municipal budgets                                                                  (89 out of 134) – 66%
and performance                                                                    The verification of the survey
rankings) by the                                                                   was conducted by an
end of Phase 1.                                                                    outsourced consultant.
Intermediate Outcomes (Component Indicators)
IO1 - Window 1 - Improved municipal infrastructure through capital investment grants
     Indicator       Baseline      End of cycle 1            End of cycle 2                   Comments
                      (2009)         (mid 2011)               (end of 2012)
                                Target       Achieved     Target       Achieved
Percentage of           0        100%          100%        100%          100%      This Component Indicator is
investments                                                                        fully achieved:
financed that were
identified in the                                                                  All the municipalities that have
municipal SDIPs.                                                                   SDIPs submitted sub-projects
                                                                                   that are already identified in
                                                                                   their SDIPs (37 sub-projects in
                                                                                   the 1st cycle and 198 in the 2nd
                                                                                   cycle.




                                                        71
Percentage of           0          80%          NA          80%          97%       This Component Indicator is
investments                                                                        surpassed:
financed under                                                                     Based on the technical audit &
MDP Phase 1 that                                                                   usability assessment which was
are operational                                                                    conducted      by      individual
and in adequate                                                                    consultants in West Bank and
state of usability                                                                 Gaza,     the    audit    reports
according to                                                                       indicated that the functionality,
technical audits.                                                                  usability, and sustainability are
                                                                                   acceptable and satisfactory.
                                                                                   Based on a sample of 30 sub-
                                                                                   projects. However one sub-
                                                                                   project in Gaza is partially
                                                                                   utilized. I.e. this indicator is
                                                                                   overachieved with more than
                                                                                   97% of sub-projects in
                                                                                   adequate state of usability.
IO2 - Window 2 - improved municipal management through application of innovative initiatives
      Indicator     Baseline        End of cycle 1        End of cycle 2                     Comments
                     (2009)           (mid 2011)           (end of 2012)
                                 Target      Achieved   Target      Achieved
The number of          4          NA            NA        6             8        This component indicator is
municipal                                                                        surpassed:
amalgamation                                                                     8 newly amalgamated
initiatives                                                                      municipalities had selected 12
initiated, by the                                                                social and small-scale
end of Phase 1.                                                                  infrastructure sub-projects in
                                                                                 health, education, culture,
                                                                                 roads.
The number of          0          NA            NA        2             4        This component indicator is
energy-efficiency                                                                met:
projects for                                                                     One year after the installation
enhancing                                                                        of energy saving equipment’s,
municipal                                                                        a post process evaluation was
revenues that are                                                                conducted.
implemented                                                                      The results of the measurement
                                                                                 and verification in 2012
                                                                                 indicated noticeable
                                                                                 achievements regarding the
                                                                                 energy savings in the 4 piloted
                                                                                 municipalities in the amount
                                                                                 reached 1,523,235 KWh (EUR
                                                                                 165,479). The evaluation report
                                                                                 for this sub-window illustrates
                                                                                 these figures in detail.
Pilots of OSSs         0            1           NA        3             3        This indicator is likely to be
implemented in at                                                                achieved by the end of the
least 3                                                                          project. The assignment is
municipalities in                                                                ongoing and it is anticipated to
Gaza.                                                                            have OSSs established and
                                                                                 ready to receive clients in 3
                                                                                 municipalities in Gaza, by the
                                                                                 end of August 2013 (Jabalia, Al
                                                                                 Qarara, and Bani-Suhaila).




                                                       72
IO3 - Window 3 - Developed capacities for municipalities through the capacity development packages
     Indicator        Baseline       End of cycle 1              End of cycle 2                  Comments
                       (2009)          (mid 2011)                 (end of 2012)
                                 Target       Achieved        Target      Achieved
The percentage of        0         15%          86%            25%          95.5%    This component indicator is
municipalities that                                                                  surpassed: as illustrated at the
graduate up the                                                                      PDO level.
performance
category in which
they are currently
classified, by the
end of Phase 1.
Procedures for           0        O&M                          O&M                   This indicator is not achieved
O&M are                        procedures                  procedures                yet, but is expected to be
established and                 approved                    are piloted              surpassed by the end of project:
piloted in at least 5                                      in at least 5             The scope of this assignment
municipalities.                                            municipalit               was developed to have a
                                                              ies and                manual for O&M for roads and
                                                             relevant                public facilities. A set of 10
                                                            training is              municipalities (compared to 5
                                                            completed                targeted) will be coached on
                                                                                     the use of the manual.
                                                                                     The target, which was
                                                                                     identified by end of Cycle 1,
                                                                                     was not met due to planning
                                                                                     issues related to O&M
                                                                                     package.

                                                                                      The main deliverable of the
                                                                                      coaching process of the 10 pilot
                                                                                      municipalities is to have O&M
                                                                                      plans that, which is expected to
                                                                                      be ready by April 2014, where
                                                                                      the contract with the
                                                                                      consultancy firm was extended
                                                                                      upon the approval from the
                                                                                      KFW.
IO4 - Window 4 - Good and effective management of MDP I
Satisfactory       Satisfactory Satisfactory Satisfactory Satisfactory Satisfactory This component indicator is
performance of the                                                                  fully achieved:
MDLF as
measured by                                                                         The MDLF has achieved more
meeting targets it                                                                  than 95% of the forecasted
defines in the                                                                      disbursement for 2010, 2011
Annual Work Plan                                                                    and 2012.




                                                         73
                         Table A7.4: Outputs of Window 1 and percentage achievement.
                                                                                                        % of
   Sector            Sub-Sector                       Indicator                Unit Target Achieved Achievements
                                                                                                         **
Roads         Pavement                  Length of roads rehabilitated          Km    295     310       105%
              Sidewalks                 Length of Sidewalks rehabilitated      m      50,312    49,927         99%
              Retaining walls           Length of retaining walls              m       4,405     6,279         143%
                                        rehabilitated
              Street lighting           No. street lighting units supplied     No.     3,386     3,415         101%
              Culverts                  Length of storm water drainage         m       1,060      740          70%
                                        rehabilitated
Water       Water network               Length of water networks               Km        9         11          119%
            rehabilitation              rehabilitated
            Ground water wells          # of wells maintained                  No.       27        47          174%
            maintenance (Gaza)
            Households connections No. of households connection                No.      142       167          118%
                                   installed
            Pumps                  No. of pumps installed                      No.       1         1           100%
            Water meters           No. of water meters installed               No.     3,230     3,157          98%
Wastewater Wastewater network      Length of wastewater networks               Km        50       35            71%
            rehabilitation         rehabilitated
            Households connection No. of households connected                  No.       70       103          147%
            Vehicles               No. of vehicles installed                   No.       1         1           100%
Solid Waste Solid waste containers No. of containers supplied                  No.      498       498          100%
Public        Public buildings          Area of public buildings constructed Sq.m 17,184        16,783         98%
Facilities    construction
              Public gardens            Area of public gardens constructed     Sq.m 27,500      29,000         105%
              Public buildings          Area of public buildings maintained    Sq.m 35,187      35,159         100%
              maintenance
Others        Service tools              No. of tractors supplied                No.      2          2          100%
                                         No. of rollers supplied                 No.      3          3          100%
                                         No. of excavators supplied              No       7          7          100%
                                         No. of total stations supplied          No       1          1          100%
    ** This is a comparison to the targets stated in the application forms. As such, changes in outputs compared to
    the expected (whether more or less) are mainly due to final contract costs compared to the estimated (i.e. in some
    cases more could be done with the contract amount than expected, and in other cases less could be done).

                                        Table A7.5: Outputs of Window 3.
90 municipalities have been supported in preparing SDIPs.
52 municipalities have updated their SDIP.
96 municipalities have benefited from the financial package, through coaching on the use of the Financial
Policies and Procedural Manual (FPPM).
32 municipalities have benefited from the fixed assists registration and valuation package (FARV).




                                                           74
IV. Challenges related to the implementation of the project activities at the output level
 Window 1
   •      The limited capacity and availability of staff in some municipalities to supervise
          the projects.
   •      The types of projects in some SDIPs, which can be considered large scale can’t be
          implemented with the expected allocations in the coming years. Some
          municipalities could not implement some projects in the strategic plan due to
          unavailability of public lands (SDIP’s wishful list of projects).
   •      There was a major influence of the allocation amounts on the types of projects.
   •      The noncompliance between the municipalities’ SDIPs and the ministries’ plans
          and other institutions.
   •      Regarding PA projects:
          o In cycle 1: All PA projects were completed with some delay in disbursements.
          o In cycle 2: In the West Bank the projects were implemented.
          o In Gaza there are 10 projects not implemented due to the delay in the PA fund
              transfer.

 Window 2
   •      Regarding the OSS and concerning the mapping of municipal functions and
          optimizing procedures, there is lack of unified systems in service delivery: mostly
          tendency towards centralization, and bureaucratic procedures.
   •      Regarding the supply & installation of OSS computerized System:
          o There is weak knowledge in IT and automation, and high dependency on paper
              work.
          o Some of the software in the municipalities is not compatible with the OSS
              software.
          o The closed source software and maintenance was an issue to municipalities.
          o Some equipment was stuck for some time on the border.
          o The electricity problem in Gaza forced certain modifications in the software -
              “24 hour service by web” wasn’t possible.

 Window 3
(General Challenges facing the implementation of W3)
   •      Limited capacity, lack of sufficient staff and overloaded staff at the municipalities.
   •      The procurement for the different packages started simultaneously, (e.g. there were
          large numbers of expression of interest (129) and proposals that needed to be
          evaluated technically).
   •      Contract management, financial management, and follow up are time consuming
          and hinder the ability of the MDLF staff to have better outreach with the
          municipalities creating a gap in communication.




                                             75
A. Improve financial management
   •       The lack of proper documentation and archiving in some municipalities made it
           difficult to identify the ownership, acquisition year, and costs regarding the fixed
           assets registration and valuation.
   •       The slow process in response to financial management reforms (adaptation of new
           procedures, software, reporting and monitoring systems etc.).
   •       IFMIS: through (LGCBP) 34 municipalities had IFMIS. At the time of the
           municipal ranking update (end of 2012), 19 municipalities were using the software.
           Others faced problems with running it, causing a reputation risk that no
           municipality applied to MDP-I for IFMIS.

B. Strategic Development and Investment Plans
   •       Limited capacities in the municipalities for integrated planning.
   •       The level of participation of youth, women, and marginalized groups was minimal.
   •       The dependency on external funds in implementing the SDIPs projects, with less
           than 5 percent from own resources.

C. Operation and Maintenance
   •       No systematic documentation for maintenance interventions or guidance.
   •       There is no coding and numbering for roads in the city.
   •       There is lack of recent maps - Master plans.
   •       There is no public buildings inventory.

V. Evaluation of the MDLF’s performance at project stages with special emphasis on
lessons learned
12.    Throughout the project the performance of the MDLF was satisfactory. Despite all the
challenges and obstacles that faced the implementation of the project the MDLF was able to
complete the planned activities successfully and meet the project development objectives. The
main lessons learnt from this experience:

 Window 1

   •       LTC responsibilities in identification and planning stages will mainly focus on
           reviewing and verifying designs and bills of quantities in addition to implementing
           technical training programs for municipalities staff especially in required design,
           quality control and contract management, and assisting municipalities in the
           implementation stage.
   •       Conducting site visits for the project’s sites during the appraisal stage which will
           be necessary for:
           o The appraisal recommendation for approval or pre-approval.
           o The verification of submitted information within the application form.




                                              76
  •     The MDLF will select some municipalities which would have increased financial
        and procurement responsibilities for sub-projects to be financed under MDP-II (as
        post review).
  •     The MDLF will continue strengthening the municipal institutions and improving
        their staff capacities through training sessions and on job training and transfer of
        know-how. This will enable the municipalities to be efficient and sustained
        institution.
  •     In the Gaza Strip: Part of its allocation was an operating cost and will continue in
        MDP-II.

 Window2-OSS

  •     High commitment from decision makers in the municipality is needed (behavior
        change in service delivery).
  •     There is a need to have in-depth analysis/studies to procedures followed by
        municipalities and the necessity in the future to develop O&M for service delivery
        (with the support of the MOLG).
  •     Software development: there is a need to concentrate on the M&E and reporting
        systems.

 Window3 – financial management

  •     There is a need for strong stakeholder involvement (enforcement of regulations:
        the MOLG, the MDLF, the Association of Palestinian Local Authorities, and
        municipalities).
  •     A constant capacity building follow-up of financial departments is needed
        concerning the training, coaching, and automation using simplified software.
  •     The development of new packages tackling the revenue generation and the
        financial management is recommended for MDP-II.
  •     There is a need to update of manuals if required based on lessons learnt and
        recommendations.
  •     There is a need to update the TOR for MDP-II concerning the duration of the
        contracts, and tools used for the implementation.

 Window 3 – SDIP

  •     There is a need for stronger involvement from the MOLG and other
        stakeholders and keeping coordination channels with other stakeholders.
  •     There is a need to outreach and mobilize the local community about strategic
        planning/participatory planning prior to commencement of the planning process.
  •     The use of quotas among planning committees (youth and women) is
        recommended for MDP-II.
  •     There is a need to encourage active volunteering, especially among the youth.




                                           77
   •       It is recommended to deal with the variations of different communities/
           municipalities (scale, services delivered, etc.): Light SDIP < 8,000, amalgamated
           municipalities.
   •       There is a need to work more on change behavior and introduce citizenship manual
           and outreach manual (mainstream gender).
   •       There is a need to apply and activate the SDIP units (employee or department) at
           each municipality.

 Window 3 - O&M

   •       The operation and maintenance needs to be phased.
   •       New capacity building interventions might be needed to enhance service delivery
           by applying new tools of operations, GIS, etc.

VI. Evaluation of World Bank Performance
13.   Throughout the project, the performance of the World Bank was satisfactory. There
was continuous follow up by the project team leader and Bank related staff on the progress of
implementation and on financial and management issues.

14.    During implementation, there was day-to-day follow up by the field based members.
Semiannual structured supervision missions were organized which featured team members
from West Bank and Gaza. This ensured the mobilization of a multi-disciplined team much
needed to oversee this project. Moreover, safeguard policies were also monitored closely and
were timely addressed. For example, procurement was constantly monitored with periodic
post-reviews as part of the supervision missions' activities.

15.    In addition the team leader, related staff and experts were involved in the periodic
missions. During the missions, progress, technical comments, procurement, and financial
reviews took place and comments were discussed with MDLF staff.

VII. Sustainability
16.     The MDP was designed in such a way as to ensure the sustainability of its effects
regarding the services delivery, piloted innovations, and municipal capacity development
issues. The sustainability of MDP impacts is ensured by to the following factors:

   •       The linkage between the municipal grants and municipal performance is an
           important factor that incentivizes for better performance to get more funds from
           MDP as a multi-phase incentive program.
   •       The capacity development packages were designed to institutionalize the
           procedures, guidelines, and manuals within the municipalities as a first step
           towards the reform and good governance for the LG sector in Palestine.
   •       The MDP was designed in line with national LG policies, which implies that all
           procedures, manuals, and other institutional arrangements within the
           municipalities regarding the financial and planning aspects will be supported by
           the central government.


                                             78
•   The participatory approach which was adopted during the implementation of
    MDP-I activities, in both the strategic planning and sub-project identification, is an
    important factor towards building a strong relation between the citizens and their
    municipalities. This leads to increased level of confidence with municipalities and
    increases the loyalty towards the implemented sub-projects.
•   Most importantly, the manuals and guidelines regarding the FARV, SDIP, OSS,
    etc., are being utilized by other institutions working in LG sector development.




                                       79
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

1.     The draft ICR was shared with all FPs for comments. The responses are provided
below.

Comments from KfW
2.  The comments below were received from the KfW by email on April 14, 2014:

We have the following comments,

   •       Item 35: KfW did not agree on financing recurrent expenditures in Gaza.
   •       Item 45: KfW confirms the statement.
   •       Item 52: KfW confirms the statement.
   •       Item 55: the following is an update on the four phases of developing an O&M
           packages, which its implementation was divided into four phases:
           o The following was completed in MDP I:
                    Phase one: assessment of the current practices of O&M at the
                      municipalities.
                    Phase two: develop an operation and maintenance system and
                      document it in a manual. The coaching of municipalities on its use is
                      ongoing.
           o The following is being implemented or planned for MDP II
                    Phase three: develop a computerized O&M system and test it on a pilot
                      of municipalities. This phase is under implementation (MDPII-Cycle1)
                      where we approved the ToR, so the procurement process started.
                    Phase four: Roll out the computerized system to the municipalities,
                      which is planned for MDPII-Cycle2.
   •       Item 78: we agree on the comment regarding the creditworthiness of
           municipalities.
   •       Item 81: The following are two main reasons for large investments in roads,
           o The construction/rehabilitation of roads was considered priority in SDIPs.
           o The allocations for most municipalities were not sufficient to consider other
               types of projects.

In general, the report is well written and comprehensive.

Comments from DANIDA
3.  By email of April 16, DANIDA confirmed that they have no comments on the ICR.

Comments from AFD
4.  The AFD confirmed by telephone follow-up that they have no comments on the ICR.




                                              80
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.       The following documents are in the project file:

     •      Project Appraisal Document (August 13, 2009)
     •      Trust Fund Grant Agreement (2009)
     •      Multi-Donor Trust Fund Grant Agreement (2010)
     •      Multi-Donor Trust Fund Project Agreement – MDLF (2010)
     •      Subsidiary Agreement PLO-PA (2010)
     •      On-granting Agreement PA-MDLF (2010)
     •      2011 AF allocation requests
     •      2011 AF Letter from Sweden
     •      Trust Fund Grant Agreement Amendment (2011)
     •      Additional Grant Project Paper (2012)
     •      Additional Financing Agreement – Sweden (2011)
     •      Additional Financing Agreement – Denmark (2011)
     •      Municipal Infrastructure Database Survey (2012)
     •      West Bank and Gaza Municipal Finance and Service Provision (2010)
     •      Technical Audit and Usability Assessment for Infrastructure Sub-Projects –Gaza
            (2013)
     •      Technical Audit and Usability Assessment for Infrastructure Sub-Projects –West
            Bank (2013)
     •      Project aide-memoires (3, 2010-2011)
     •      Client Satisfaction Survey (2013)
     •      Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs #1-7, 2009-2013)
     •      Environmental and Social Management Framework
     •      Mid-Term Review Report
     •      Government Implementation Completion Report (2013)




                                               81
MAP




      82
