                                        Document of
                                      The World Bank

                            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                     Report No: 65657-GZ



                                      PROJECT PAPER

                                           ON A

                           PROPOSED ADDITIONAL GRANT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$2 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                 PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (PLO)
              (FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY)

                                         FOR THE

                    ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR THE
     MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT FOR THE SUPPORT OF PHASE I OF
                THE MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM


                                       January 3, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region

   This document is being made publicly available prior to Board consideration. This does not
   imply a presumed outcome. This document may be updated following Board consideration
   and the updated document will be made publicly available in accordance with the Bank‟s
   Policy on Access to Information.
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective October 31, 2011)


                        Currency Unit = New Israeli Shekel (NIS)
                                NIS1 = US$ 0.277
                                 US$ = NIS 3.609

                                FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 – December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF        Additional Financing
AFD       Agence Française de Développement
BTC       Belgian Development Agency (formerly: Belgian Technical Cooperation)
FARV      Fixed Asset and Registration Valuation
FP‟s      Funding Partners
FPPM      Financial Management and Procurement Procedures Manual
GAM       Grant Allocation Mechanism
GTZ/GIZ   German Technical Cooperation
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA       International Development Agency
IFRs      Interim Financial Reports
IFMIS     Integrated Financial Management Information System
KFW       German Bank for Development
MDLF      Municipal Development and Lending Fund
MDP       Municipal Development Project for the Support of Phase 1 of the Municipal
          Development Program
MoF       Ministry of Finance
MoLG      Ministry of Local Government
MOPAD     Ministry of Planning & Administrative Development
NGO       Non Governmental Organization
NIS       New Israeli Shekel
OSS       One Stop Shops
PA        Palestinian Authority
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objective
PRDP      Palestinian Reform and Development Plan
SDIP      Strategic Development and Investment Planning
TFGWB     Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
WBG       West Bank and Gaza


                       Vice President:     Inger Andersen
                    Country Director:      Mariam Sherman
               Acting Sector Director:     Emmanuel Mbi
                     Sector Manager:       Franck Bousquet
                   Task Team Leader:       Soraya Goga
                          WEST BANK AND GAZA
      ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR THE MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                      FOR THE SUPPORT OF PHASE I OF
                  THE MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM




                                                         Table of Contents


I. Introduction ................................................................................................................................... 6
II. Background and Rationale for Additional Financing in the amount of USD $ 2.0 Million ......... 7
III. Proposed Changes ........................................................................................................................ 9
IV. Appraisal Summary ................................................................................................................... 11
Annex 1: Results Framework and Monitoring................................................................................. 13
Annex 2: Operational Risk Assessment Framework (ORAF) ......................................................... 19
Annex 3: Use of Project Funds and revised estimate of project costs ............................................. 21
Annex 4: Procurement and Financial Management Arrangements ................................................ 22
                           WEST BANK AND GAZA


ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR THE MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                FOR THE SUPPORT OF PHASE I OF
            THE MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM

                  ADDITIONAL FINANCING DATA SHEET

                        Basic Information - Additional Financing (AF)
Country Director: Mariam Sherman                   Sectors: Sub-national government
Sector Manager/Director: Franck Bousquet           administration (35%); Power (23%);
Team Leader: Soraya Goga                           Roads and highways (18%); General
AF Project ID: P127162                             public administration sector (12%);
Expected Effectiveness Date: February 19, 2012     Other social services (12%)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Grant      Themes: Access to urban services and
                                                   housing (25%);Other social protection
                                                   and risk management (25%);Municipal
                                                   finance (24%);Social safety nets
                                                   (13%);Pollution management and
                                                   environmental health (13%)
                                                   Environmental category: Partial
                                                   Assessment
                                                   Expected Closing Date: April 30,
                                                   2013
                             Basic Information - Original Project
Project ID: P111741                               Environmental category: Partial
                                                  Assessment
Project Name: Municipal Development Project       Expected Closing Date: April 30, 2013
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Grant
                                  AF Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan [ ] Credit [X] Grant [ ] Guarantee [ ] Other:
Proposed terms: N/A
                                  AF Financing Plan (US$m)
                    Source                                 Total Amount (US $m)
Total Project Cost:                                                  43.3
Cofinancing:                                                         14.8
Borrower:                                                             4.0
Total Bank Financing: Trust Fund for Gaza                             2.0
and West Bank
Parallel Financing                                                   22.5
                                          Client Information
 Recipient:
 Palestine Liberation Organization
 Responsible Agency:
 Municipal Development and Lending Fund (MDLF)
 Al Bireh, Al Rashmawi Building, 3rd floor
 West Bank and Gaza
 Contact Person: Arch. Abdel Mughni Nofal
 Telephone No.: (970-2) 296-6610, 295-0684
 Fax No.: (970-2) 295-0685
 Email: abednofal@mf-palestine.org
                          AF Estimated Disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
 FY                                2012        2013
 Annual                            0.48        1.52
 Cumulative                        0.48          2
                       Project Development Objective and Description
 Original project development objective is to improve municipal management practices for
 better transparency. The PDO of the proposed Additional Financing remains unchanged.

 Project description:
 Part 1: Provide grant allocations to municipalities for capital investments and service provision
 Part 2: Support municipal innovations and efficiency
 Part 3: Provide capacity building for municipalities and the MDLF
 Part 4: Support project management including monitoring and evaluation, audits and technical
 assistance to municipalities in implementing sub-projects.
                               Safeguard and Exception to Policies
 Safeguard policies triggered:
 Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                        [X]Yes [ ] No
 Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                 [ ]Yes [X] No
 Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                          [ ]Yes [X] No
 Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                     [X]Yes [ ] No
 Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                      [ ]Yes [X] No
 Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                               [ ]Yes [X] No
 Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                         [ ]Yes [X] No
 Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                   [ ]Yes [X] No
 Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                              [ ]Yes [X] No
 Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                       [ ]Yes [X] No
 Does the project require any waivers of Bank policies?                       [ ]Yes [X] No
 Have these been endorsed or approved by Bank management?                          N/A

Conditions and Legal Covenants:

Financing Agreement             Description of                    Date Due
Reference                       Condition/Covenant

Amendment to the Grant          Revision of Subsidiary            By effectiveness
Agreement                       Agreement
Amendment to the Grant          Revision of On-granting           By effectiveness
Agreement                       Agreement
I. INTRODUCTION

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an additional
grant in an amount of US$ 2.00 Million to the Palestine Liberation Organization (for the benefit
of the Palestinian Authority), West Bank and Gaza, for the Municipal Development Project for
the Support of Phase 1 of the Municipal Development Program, P111741, from the Trust Fund
for Gaza and West Bank. The request for Additional Financing builds on a request from the
Palestinian Authority transmitted on 29 September, 2011.

2.     The original project, the MDP (P111741, TF 095351) was approved by the Board of
Directors of the World Bank on August 13, 2009 through Special Financing from the Trust Fund
for Gaza and West Bank (TFGWB) and will close on April 30, 2013.

3.      In accordance with OP/BP 13.20, the Additional Financing (US$2.00 Million) would be
used to finance implementation of expanded activities to scale up the project‟s impact and
development effectiveness primarily through support for additional grants for municipal
infrastructure (an estimated 98.3% of the additional financing), and to finance cost overruns to
complete some original project activities (an estimated 1.7% of the additional financing).

4.      The project is co-financed by Denmark and Sweden (through a World Bank administered
Multi-Donor Trust Fund), financed in parallel by Germany (through GiZ and KfW), France
(through AfD) and Belgium (through BTC) and benefits from matching financing (10% of donor
contributions) from the Palestinian Authority (PA). The Donors and the World Bank are
collectively referred to as the „Funding Partners (FPs)‟.

5.     The MDP is implemented in two cycles. The FPs (including the World Bank) contributed
an estimated Euro 33.00 Million1 to the project in 2009 and 2010. The financing was used
primarily to finance to Cycle 1 which is now in the final stages of completion. This Additional
Financing will be used to finance activities under Cycle 2 of the project. The cost of Cycle 2 is
estimated at approximately Euro 33.00 Million. The other FPs (i.e. other than the World Bank)
have committed to providing the required remaining financing through parallel financing
mechanisms (France, Germany and Belgium) and through co-financing through a World Bank
administered Multi-Donor Trust Fund (Sweden and Denmark) for Cycle 2 of the project.

6.      The Project Development Objective (PDO), project design, implementation and fiduciary
arrangements of the proposed additional financing will remain unchanged from the original
project. The PDO is to improve municipal management practices for better transparency. Project
design supports the PDO through the allocation of a performance based municipal grants2 for
capital investments (Part 1), support to municipal innovations and efficiency (Part 2), capacity
building for municipalities and the Municipal Development and Lending Fund (Part 3) and
project implementation support and management costs (Part 4). The Municipal Development and
Lending Fund (MDLF) continues in its role as the project implementing entity. The additional


1
 All Euro amounts are estimated as the FPs provided financing in several different currencies.
2
 The grant allocation to municipalities is determined through a formula consisting of performance (40%),
population (40%) and need (20%).

                                                       -6-
financing will assist in the further institutionalization of the performance based grant allocation
system, and, therefore, the Palestinian Authority‟s goal of municipal fiscal autonomy.


II. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING IN THE AMOUNT OF USD $
2.00 MILLION

7.      Link with Interim Strategy (IS): The proposed financing aligns with the goals of
improving local governance and supporting fiscal reform and public infrastructure, identified in
the Interim Strategy of the World Bank (2008-2010) as it: (i) supports the PA in providing
transparent grant transfer to municipalities; (ii) assists municipalities in improving their
performance and their financial systems and (iii) provides a grant to finance sub-projects that
could include infrastructure.

8.     Link with Sector Strategy: The multiphase Municipal Development Program3
operationalizes the Palestinian Authority‟s goal of strengthening local governments through
enhancing their efficiency and effectiveness and assisting in supporting their fiscal stability
through supporting performance based grants and capacity building packages. Such a goal was
outlined in the Palestinian National Development Plan4 (2011-2013).

9.      The Original Grant: On August 13, 2009, the Board of Directors of the World Bank
approved US$10.00 Million in Special Financing for the Municipal Development Project for the
Support of Phase 1 of the Municipal Development Program from the Trust Fund for Gaza and
West Bank (TFGWB)5. Upon fulfillment of all legal covenants, the credit became effective on
January 26, 2010. Between November 12, 2009, and October 28, 2010, agreements were signed
with the Palestinian Authority for the financing of MDP by GTZ, KfW, AFD, and Belgium6, and
for the World Bank administered Multi-Donor Trust Fund (Danish and Swedish Co-financing)
for the equivalent of approximately Euro 33.00 Million. The expectation and the commitment
was that these Funding Partners would contribute additional funds for the second and third years
of MDP7. The Original Grant will close on April 30, 2013.



3
  The multiphase national Municipal Development Program has a three stage hierarchy of objectives: a) Sector-
Level Objective: To strengthen municipal governance to enable municipalities to become creditworthy; b) Program
Level Objective: Support municipalities in providing better coverage and improved coverage of services over the
medium term; c) Municipal Development Program Phase 1 Objective: To improve municipal management practices
for better transparency.
4
  Palestinian Authority, 2010. The Palestinian National Development Plan has as a strategic objective „to empower
local government and bring services closer to the people‟. „Accelerating fiscal decentralization‟ appears as a priority
policy under that strategic objective.
5
  This TF financed the Bank program in West Bank and Gaza.
6
  GTZ on November 12, 2009; KfW on December 6, 2009; AFD on April 6, 2010, the co-financed MDTF TF 96770
administered by the World Bank on behalf of Sweden and Denmark on June 10, 2010 and Belgium on October 28,
2010 (only for Cycle 2).
7
  Page 5 of the Original Project Appraisal Document states: „In addition to the Bank, six other Donors have
committed to financing the program'. The funding amount reflected below (i.e. referring to the financing table) is
only for commitments made in 2009 but Donors are expected to put additional funds in the second and third years of
MDP (Phase 1), totaling over US$ 100 million by the end of Phase 1.‟

                                                         -7-
10.     Objective of the Original Project: The Project Development Objective (PDO) is to
improve municipal management practices for better transparency. This is the necessary condition
for improving service delivery in subsequent phases. To support the PDO, a project consisting
of four component parts through which funds are disbursed was designed:

   Part 1: Municipal Grants for Capital Investments allocates performance-based grants for
    capital investments or operating expenditures through a transfer formula based on population,
    need and municipal performance. (US$46.10 Million, US$7.60 Million from TFGWB)
   Part 2: Support to Municipal Innovations and Efficiency promotes learning and innovation to
    promote municipal development (US$3.70 Million, US$0.70 Million from TFGWB).
   Part 3: Capacity-Building for Municipalities and the Municipal Development and Lending
    Fund (MDLF) supports municipalities to graduate to a higher performance category, and
    supports the implementing entity to build its capacity (US$5.23 Million, US$0.60 Million
    from TFGWB)
   Part 4: Project Implementation Support and Management Costs finances project management
    (US$2.00 Million, US$1.10 Million from TFGWB).

11.     Project Performance: MDP is meeting its Key Performance Indicator targets and is, in
some cases, exceeding these. Sixty-eight percent of municipalities have graduated to a higher
performance category, thus exceeding the target of fifteen percent for this performance indicator.
Sixty-nine percent of municipalities disclosed information in at least two of the following three
areas: (a) financial data and municipal budgets; (b) municipal ranking; and (c) projects and
achievements. This exceeds the PDO indicator target for 2011 of thirty percent. In addition, key
outcome indicators for each of the Parts are being met. These include: (i) the project has met its
target of 100 % of investments financed under Part 1 that were identified in the municipal
Strategic Development and Investment Plans (SDIPs) for those municipalities which have a
SDIP; (ii) four new municipalities have been legally recognized following an amalgamation
process (target is six); and (iii) MDLF performance in project management has been consistently
rated as satisfactory.

12.     Implementation Progress (IP): The Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR)
ratings for Project Development Objective (PDO) and overall IP have been consistently rated
either "Satisfactory" or “Moderately Satisfactory? since Board approval and both are currently
rated as “Satisfactory?. Disbursement for the project (including all FP financing) was at 90% as
at end October, 2011. Disbursement to the designated account for the World Bank financing
stands at 70% (US$ 7.07 Million) as of September 30, 2011.

13.    The PA is in compliance with all legal covenants. There are no unresolved fiduciary,
environmental, social, or other safeguard concerns. OP4.01 (Environmental Assessment) and OP
4.09 (Pest Management) were triggered. However, all sub-projects currently implemented have
complied with category B status. Procurement is rated as „satisfactory‟ and the implementing
entity has hired qualified procurement specialists who have acceptable experience. The
Financial Management rating is „moderately satisfactory‟. FM arrangements during the first
cycle, including staffing, accounting reporting, budgeting and flow of funds and audit
arrangements, are considered to be adequate for providing timely and reliable information.



                                               -8-
However, an MS rating has been retained as the MDLF‟s internal audit function does not follow
a risk based approach.

14.     Rationale for Borrower Request: The PA regards the grant allocation system, described
under Part 1, as a nascent inter-governmental fiscal transfer mechanism, initially financed
primarily by Donors with the PA providing a matching 10% grant to the project. The intent of
the transfer mechanism supported by the grant is to (i) provide an incentive for municipalities to
improve performance; (ii) introduce transparency in the flow of transfers to municipalities; (iii)
introduce a measure of stability in the flow of transfers to municipalities so that they are able to
undertake sound long term investment decisions. The PA, supported by the Funding Partners,
therefore perceives of the transfer as being a regular (yearly or biennial) source of financing for
municipalities.

15.     Consequently, the implementation of the MDP was divided into two, including Cycle 1
(2009-2011) and Cycle 2 (2011-2013), to reflect the intent of the PA in providing a regular
transfer to municipalities for capital investment. Approximately Euro 31.00 Million (including
the WBGTF Original Project Financing of US$10.00 Million) of the Euro 33 .00 Million, which
was the final amount committed by all the Funding Partners (including the World Bank), was
allocated to Cycle 1 in its entirety. This occurred on the assumption that additional donor
financing would be available for Cycle 2 as per the PA‟s agreements with the Funding Partners
(except for the World Bank).

16.     The Implementing Entity (the Municipal Development and Lending Fund) projects that it
requires Euro 32.20 Million primarily to scale up the project for implementation of Cycle 2 so as
to meet the sector objectives. The projected financing was based on: (i) a Cycle 2 allocation to
municipalities that reward them if they graduated up to a performance category; (ii) financing for
additional capacity-building packages to assist municipalities in meeting additional performance
targets; and (iii) completion of all outstanding activities as contained in the original Project
Appraisal Document (see Annex 3). The Funding Partners have responded positively, taking the
opportunity provided by the successful implementation of Cycle 1 to finance Cycle 2 and,
therefore, support the PA in meeting its sectoral goals (see paragraph 9 and footnote 1). The
Funding Partners and the PA will contribute Euro 30.80 Million towards Cycle 2 of the project.

17.      The proposed additional grant would be used to finance implementation of expanded
activities to scale up the original project‟s impact and development effectiveness primarily
through support for additional performance based grants for municipal infrastructure (an
estimated 98.3% of the total additional financing). A portion of the funds (1.7% of the total
additional financing) would also be used to finance cost overruns to complete some original
project activities as a result of an increase in costs.

III. PROPOSED CHANGES

18.   Proposed Changes: The Project Development Objective (PDO), project design,
implementation and fiduciary arrangements will remain unchanged from the original project.




                                                -9-
19.     The Additional Financing (US$2.00 Million) will primarily be used to finance activities
to scale up the project‟s impact and development effectiveness and also to cover cost overruns.
(See Table 1: Proposed Budget for Additional Financing). There will be no extension of the
closing date. The MDLF prepared the Original Project‟ implementation in two cycles (Cycle 1,
2009-2011 and Cycle 2, 2011-2013). This AF finances Cycle 2.

20.     More specifically, an estimated 98.3% of the funds (US$ 1.97 Million) would be used to
finance additional municipal grants and the required project management costs for municipalities
in West Bank and Gaza under Part 1 of the project. The remaining Funding Partners will allocate
an estimated additional US$ 34.80 Million (estimated at Euro 26.00 Million) for this activity.
The remaining Funding Partners will also allocate an estimated US$ 2.00 Million to scale up Part
3 of the project. This would include an estimated 56 additional municipalities will receive
strategic development and investment plan packages; an estimated 20 additional municipalities
will receive fixed assets registration and valuation packages; an estimated 13 additional
municipalities will receive financial policies and procedures manual packages.

21.     An estimated 1.7% of the funds (US$ 0.03 Million) would be used to finance a cost
overrun associated with the implementation of the Integrated Financial Management Information
System (IFMIS) system as part of improving the financial management of municipalities. The
financing of the IFMIS is key in supporting municipalities in moving to a ranking of „A‟, which
denotes a creditworthy municipality. In addition, the remaining Funding Partners would provide
an estimated US$ 0.10 Million for completion of activities to support One Stop Shops under Part
2 of the project and US$ 2.00 Million to provide support to an estimated 12 municipalities for
Operations and Maintenance capacity building packages (see Annex 3).

22.     The proposed activities are similar in type and scope to the original investment project,
do not comprise any changes to the initial project design, and only expand, replicate, and
strengthen the ongoing activities.

23.    The prior review procurement thresholds were raised to reflect changes in the
procurement thresholds for the West Bank and Gaza (See Annex 4).

24.     The Results Framework Outcome Indicators and Use of Intermediate Outcome
Monitoring will also remain unchanged. However, the targets have been revised to reflect this
financing request. The target for PDO Indicator 1 has been increased from 25% to 30% and the
target for PDO Indicator 2 has been increased from 50% to 60%. Yearly targets for the Results
Framework Monitoring will be changed to reflect that the project was implemented in two cycles
rather than on a yearly basis. The projects outcomes and intermediate outcome indicators will be
monitored to ensure that they continue to meet or exceed their targets, although the Results
Framework remains unchanged.

25.     The number of targeted municipalities will increase from 132 to 134 to reflect the change
in the number of municipalities in West Bank and Gaza. The proposed changes in allocations for
each Part are listed in Table 1 below.


                                              -10-
       Table 1: Proposed MDP Cycle 2 Budget and Allocation of TFWBG in Euro Millions

                                                       Original                            Revised   Revised
                                           Original    Cost         Propos                 Cost      Cost
                                                                               TFGWB
    Component                              Cost        TFGWB        ed Cost                          TFGWB
                                                                               AF
                                           (Cycle 1)                Cycle 2

    Part 1: Municipal Grants               25.00         5.50        26.50       1.28      51.50      6.78
    Part 2: Support to Municipal            1.20         0.50         0.70       0          1.90      0.50
    Innovations and Efficiency
    Part 3: Capacity-Building               1.90         0.65         2.20       0.02       4.10      0.67
    Part 4: Project Implementation          3.00         0.76         2.80       0.19       5.80      0.95
    Support and Management Costs
    Total                                  31.10         7.41        32.20       1.49      63.30      8.90
                              8
    Total in US$ Equivalent                41.00        10.00        43.00       2.00      84.00     12.00


IV. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

26.     Economic and Financial: An economic and financial analysis was not undertaken as part
of the original project preparation as the sub-projects are demand driven and remained unknown
until after the projects effectiveness. Instead, a methodology was elaborated and agreed to be
used for the economic and financial cost-benefit of sub-project investments. This methodology
will also apply to the sub-projects financed under this Additional Financing request.

27.     Technical: The Transfer Mechanism formula, which forms the basis for allocation of
grants to municipalities, was effectively piloted in Cycle 1. Municipal allocations, using the
formulae, have been finalized taking into account performance improvements and updated
population figures.

28.     The sub-projects would continue to be selected on the basis of a municipality‟s Strategic
Development and Investment Plan (which are prepared through community participation), when
such a plan is available and community consultations, when such a plan is not available, as was
required in the original project. All sub-projects will continue to meet the eligibility criteria as
outlined in the Operations Manual and legal agreements. Most required capacity building
packages that will be supported in Cycle 2 have been already implemented in some
municipalities through Cycle 1 (SDIP, FARV, FPPM and budget guidelines), or through other
Donor financed projects (IFMIS, OSS). For most municipalities, sub-projects have already been
prioritized either as part of an SDIP process or through the prioritization process that occurred at
the start of the Original Project.

29.   Institutional: The MDLF, through Cycle 1, has proved an effective agency for
implementing the Municipal Development Project. All required staff for project implementation
has been hired, and capacity of most staff is sound and has been proven through the
implementation of Cycle 1 (the original project).


8
    Note that these are estimated based on an exchange rate of 1.3 on 21 November, 2011.

                                                         -11-
30.    Procurement: Procurement under this AF will be carried out in accordance with the
World Bank “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consulting Services under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers? published by the World
Bank in January 2011. The selection of consultants will be carried out in accordance with the
World Bank “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers? published by the World Bank in January 2011.
The procurement arrangements of the original project will apply to this Additional Financing. A
procurement plan (PP) for contracts under Part 2, 3, and 4 was prepared by MDLF and agreed
with the Bank. The procurement risk rating for the project is Moderate; and the same risk rating
would hold for this AF. In accordance with the Bank policies, prior review thresholds for West
Bank and Gaza have recently been increased and will apply to this AF. (See Annex 4 for details)

31.     Financial Management: Activities proposed under the AF will be under the same
categories of the original project, and will be implemented by the same implementing entity, the
Municipal Development and Lending fund (MDLF). The same FM and disbursement
arrangements of the original project will apply to this AF. The current reporting arrangements
are satisfactory and will be extended to this AF. The current audit arrangements are satisfactory
and there will remain unchanged for this AF. The overall financial management risk of the
ongoing project is considered Substantial and the same risk rating would hold for this AF.
Mitigating measures have been introduced and include centralizing the FM and disbursements at
the MDLF through direct payment on behalf of municipalities to contractor/suppliers/consultants
both in West Bank and Gaza. FM risk after mitigating measures is Moderate.

32.    Parallel financing: Other Funding Partners (Germany, France, and Belgium) will
continue to provide their contribution to the MDP on parallel financing basis to be disbursed
through separate bank account. Parallel financing activities will be included in the project
procurement plan for Parts 2, 3 and 4. For Part 1, the MDLF will allocate available funds from
all donors including Bank to targeted municipalities based on the Grant allocation mechanism.

33.     Environmental Safeguards: Since the types of sub-projects funded remain unaltered from
the original project design, the Environment Category for this project remains “B? Partial
Assessment. Operational Policy 4.01 remains triggered with the requirement that an
environmental assessment will be prepared for activities that involve infrastructure construction.
In addition, Operational Policy 4.09 on Pest Management remains triggered in the event that
municipalities, particularly in Gaza where the project supports operations and maintenance, may
require financing for pesticides for mosquitoes for instance. A Pest Management Plan has been
included as part of the Environment Management Plan. The EMP was re-disclosed on 17
November, 2011, as required.

34.     Social Safeguards: Since the project will maintain its original design, there are no
changes in the applicability of social safeguards. The Bank‟s Operational Policy 4.12 will not
apply because the project will not finance any investments or sub-projects that involves the
involuntary taking of lands resulting in their relocation or loss of shelter, loss of assets or access
to assets, or loss of income sources or other means livelihood for individuals and community
members. The project‟s Operational Manual (OM) includes a negative list which clearly
prohibits activities which would result in the triggering of the Bank‟s OP 4.12.


                                                -12-
                    ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING
   Additional Financing for the Municipal Development Project for the Support of Phase 1
                          of the Municipal Development Program
                                   Results Framework

                    Revisions to the Results Framework                                           Comments/
                                                                                            Rationale for Change
PDO
Current (PAD)                       Proposed
To improve municipal                No Change
management practices for better
transparency




PDO indicators
Current (PAD)                       Proposed change
The percentage of municipalities     No change to indicator. Change in target from   The target has been changed to reflect
that graduate up the performance    25% to 30%.                                      the impact of the AF
category in which they are
classified by the end of phase 1
The percentage of municipalities    No change to indicator. Change in target from    The target has been changed to reflect
that apply at least two public      50% to 60%.                                      the impact of the AF
disclosure methods (publically
available SDIPs, Annual External
Audits, project related data,
municipal budgets and
performance rankings by the end
of Phase 1.
Intermediate Results indicators
Current (PAD)                       Proposed change*
Percentage of investments           No change
financed that were identified in
the Municipal Strategic
Development and Investment
Plans
Percentage of investment financed   No Change
under MDP Phase 1 that are
operational and in an adequate
state of usability according to
Technical Audits
The number of municipal             No Change
amalgamation initiatives
supported by the end of Phase 1
The number of Energy Efficient      Changed from 2 to 4                              The target has been changed to reflect
projects for enhancing municipal                                                     the number of projects that have been
revenues that are implemented                                                        implemented.
Pilots of one-stop-shops            No Change
implemented in at least 3
municipalities in Gaza
The percentage of municipalities    No Change
that graduate up the performance
category in which they are


                                                            -13-
                      Revisions to the Results Framework          Comments/
                                                             Rationale for Change
currently classified by the end of
phase 1
Procedures for Operations and          No Change
Maintenance are established an
piloted in at least 5 municipalities
MDLF satisfactory performance          No Change
as measured by meeting targets it
defined in the Annual Work Plan




                                                      -14-
                                                              REVISED PROJECT RESULTS FRAMEWORK

Project Development Objective (PDO): To improve municipal management practices for better transparency
                                                       Baseline                     Cumulative Target Values
                                                       Original   Progress                                                                              Responsibilit
                                                  9
                                                                             2010       2011      2012      2013                      Data Source/
 PDO Level Results Indicators               UOM        Project    To Date                                            Frequency                           y for Data        Comments



                                     Core
                                                                                                                                      Methodology
                                                         Start     (2011)              end of              end of                                        Collection
                                                        (2008)                         Cycle 1             Cycle 2
                                                                                                                                                                         The end
                                                                                                                                                                         graduation rate
                                                                                                                                                                         may be lower
                                                                                                                                                                         than the current
                                                                                                                                                                         progress. What
                                                                                                                                                                         has been
                                                                                                                                                                         measured
                                                                                                                                                                         currently at the
                                                                                                                                                                         end of Cycle 1,
                                                                                                                     Consolidated
                                                                                                                                                                         is if a
                                                                                                                     Semiannual
                                                                                                                                                                         performance
                                                                                                                      and annual
                                                                                                                                      Manual for the                     indicator has
                                                                                                                       Progress
                                                                                                                                     Grant Allocation                    been met by the
                                                                                                                       Reports
1. PDO Level Indicator: The                                                                                                            Mechanism                         municipality.
                                                                                                                                                           MDLF
percentage of municipalities that                                                                                                                                        At the end of
                                                                                                                      Published
graduate up the performance                 Percent-                                                                                 Questionnaires                      Cycle 2, what
                                                          0         68                   15                    30      annual                           External
category in which they are                    age                                                                                       collected                        will be
                                                                                                                      municipal                         consultancies/
currently classified by the end of                                                                                                  periodically from                    measured is if
                                                                                                                      rankings                          audits
phase 1                                                                                                                              municipalities                      additional
                                                                                                                                                                         indicators have
                                                                                                                       Annual
                                                                                                                                    Submitted annual                     been met and if
                                                                                                                      Review of
                                                                                                                                    municipal budgets                    previously met
                                                                                                                        GAM
                                                                                                                                                                         indicators have
                                                                                                                      Rankings
                                                                                                                                                                         been sustained.
                                                                                                                                                                         Hence, this
                                                                                                                                                                         should be
                                                                                                                                                                         viewed as a two
                                                                                                                                                                         part indicator
                                                                                                                                                                         with a target for
                                                                                                                                                                         cycle 1 and a
                                                                                                                                                                         target for cycle
                                                                                                                                                                         2.




     9
         UOM = Unit of Measurement.

                                                                                          -15-
                                                                                                                                                                          The end
2. PDO Level Indicator : The                                                                                                                                              disclosure rate
                                                                                                                 Consolidated
percentage of municipalities that                                                                                                                                         may be less
                                                                                                                 Semiannual
apply at least two public                                                                                                                                                 than the current
                                                                                                                  and annual        MDLF supervision
disclosure methods (publically                                                                                                                              MDLF          rate as it will
                                           Percent-                                                                Progress
available SDIPs, Annual External                         0          69                 30                60                                                               measure if the
                                             age                                                                   Reports           Verification by
Audits, project related data,                                                                                                                               LTCs          disclosure
                                                                                                                                         LTCs
municipal budgets and                                                                                                                                                     methods have
                                                                                                                 LTC quarterly
performance rankings by the end                                                                                                                                           been sustained
                                                                                                                   reports
of Phase 1.                                                                                                                                                               over the course
                                                                                                                                                                          of the project.




                                                                         Intermediate Results and Indicators
                                                      Baseline                        Target Values
                                            Unit of   Original   Progress     2010   2011      2012    2013                               Data Source/      Responsibility for
Intermediate Results Indicators            Measure-   Project    To Date                                            Frequency                                                     Comments
                                                                                                      (proje                              Methodology        Data Collection
                                             ment       Start     (2011)
                                    Core




                                                       (2009)                                         ct end
                                                                                                      target)

Intermediate Result 1: Implementation of Municipal Grants for Capital Investments

                                                                                                                                           Municipal
                                                                                                                                           Application
1. Intermediate result indicator:                                                                               Consolidated Semi-
                                                                                                                                             forms                 MDLF
Percentage of investments                                                                                       annual and annual
financed that were identified in                                                                                     Reports
                                              %          0         100                100              100                                 Municipal
the Municipal Strategic
                                                                                                                                            Strategic
Development and Investment                                                                                        LTC Quarterly
                                                                                                                                        Development and            LTCs
Plans                                                                                                               Reports
                                                                                                                                        Investment Plans

                                                                                                                                         MDLF reporting
                                                                                                                 Technical Audits          Selection of            MDLF
2. Intermediate result indicator:                                                                                                           sample of
Percentage of investment financed                                                                                                           completed            MDLF -
under MDP that are operational                                   Not yet                                        MDP Implementation        infrastructure      outsourcing of
                                              %          0                            80                80
and in an adequate state of                                       due                                            Completion Report         investments           external
usability according to Technical                                                                                                             annually          assessment
Audits                                                                                                            LTC Quarterly
                                                                                                                    Reports               Verification of


                                                                                        -16-
                                                                          Intermediate Results and Indicators
                                                       Baseline                            Target Values
                                             Unit of   Original   Progress       2010      2011     2012    2013                             Data Source/         Responsibility for
Intermediate Results Indicators             Measure-   Project    To Date                                                Frequency                                                     Comments
                                                                                                           (proje                            Methodology           Data Collection
                                              ment       Start     (2011)




                                     Core
                                                        (2009)                                             ct end
                                                                                                           target)
                                                                                                                                                 LTCs                   LTCs

                                                                                                                                            Qualitative and
                                                                                                                                             quantitative
                                                                                                                                              surveys in
                                                                                                                                            municipalities

Intermediate Result 2: Support to Municipal Innovations and Efficiency


                                                                                                                                               Site Visits
                                                                                                                     MDLF Consolidated
                                                                                                                      semiannual and                                   MDLF
                                                                                                                                           Verification from
                                                                                                                      annual progress
3. Intermediate result indicator:                                                                                                               MDLF
                                                                                                                          reports
The number of municipal
                                            Number        4           4                                      6
amalgamation initiatives                                                                                                                      Joint annual
                                                                                                                      World Bank and                                   World
supported by the end of Phase 1                                                                                                                 reviews
                                                                                                                        Donor Joint                                 Bank/Funding
                                                                                                                     Supervision mission                              Partners
                                                                                                                           reports



                                                                                                                                           Site visits to pilot
                                                                                                                     MDLF Consolidated
                                                                                                                                            municipalities
                                                                                                                      semiannual and
                                                                                                                                                                       MDLF
                                                                                                                      annual progress
                                                                                                                                                MDLF
4. Intermediate result indicator:                                                                                         reports
                                                                                                                                              verification
The number of Energy Efficient
                                            Number        0           4                                      4
projects for enhancing municipal                                                                                      World Bank and
                                                                                                                                           World Bank and              World
revenues that are implemented                                                                                           Donor Joint
                                                                                                                                            Donor Joint             Bank/Funding
                                                                                                                     Supervision mission
                                                                                                                                            Supervision               Partners
                                                                                                                           reports
                                                                                                                                             missions

                                                                    Guide-                                           MDLF Consolidated     Site visits to pilot        MDLF
5. Intermediate results indicator:                                   lines                                            semiannual and        municipalities
                                                                                 Guide-
Pilots of one-stop-shops                                           prepared                                           annual progress                                 External
                                            Number        0                       lines               3      3
implemented in at least 3                                          in draft.                                              reports                                   consultancies
                                                                                prepared
municipalities in Gaza                                            Assessme                                                                 World Bank and
                                                                  nt of other                                         World Bank and        Donor Joint


                                                                                             -17-
                                                                            Intermediate Results and Indicators
                                                          Baseline                              Target Values
                                               Unit of    Original    Progress     2010        2011        2012        2013                             Data Source/    Responsibility for
Intermediate Results Indicators               Measure-    Project     To Date                                                        Frequency                                               Comments
                                                                                                                      (proje                            Methodology      Data Collection
                                                ment        Start      (2011)




                                       Core
                                                           (2009)                                                     ct end
                                                                                                                      target)
                                                                       OSS                                                          Donor Joint          Supervision         World
                                                                       under                                                     Supervision mission      missions        Bank/Funding
                                                                       prep.                                                           reports                              Partners


Intermediate Result 3: Capacity Building for Municipalities


                                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                                                                       MDLF
                                                                                                          O&M         municip    MDLF Consolidated
                                                                                                                                                       verification          MDLF
                                                                                              O&M         proce-       alities    Semiannual and
6. Intermediate result indicator:
                                                                                              proce-       dures         are       annual reports
Procedures for Operations and                             O&M         Not yet                                                                                               External
                                                                                               dures      piloted     implem
Maintenance are established and                           adhoc        due                                                                             World Bank and     consultancies
                                                                                               esta-       in 5        enting     World Bank and
piloted in at least 5 municipalities                                                                                                                    Donor Joint
                                                                                              blished     munici-     O&M           Joint Donor
                                                                                                                                                        Supervision
                                                                                                          palities    procedu    Supervision mission
                                                                                                                                                         missions            World
                                                                                                                         res           reports
                                                                                                                                                                          Bank/Funding
                                                                                                                                                                            Partners


Intermediate Result 4: MDP Management
                                                                                                                                 Annual Joint Donor
                                                                                                                                 supervision mission
7. Intermediate result indicator :                                                                                                                                      MDLF - external
                                                                                                                                       Reports           Joint Donor
MDLF satisfactory performance                 Satisfac-   Satisfac-   Satisfac-   Satisfac-   Satisfac-   Satisfac-   Satisfac                                           consultancy
                                                                                                                                                         Supervision
as measured by meeting targets it               tory        tory        tory        tory        tory        tory      -tory
                                                                                                                                   Financial and          Missions
defined in the Annual Work Plan                                                                                                                                              Donors
                                                                                                                                    Institutional
                                                                                                                                 Compliance Audit




                                                                                                   -18-
                                       ANNEX 2: OPERATIONAL RISK ASSESSMENT FRAMEWORK (ORAF)
Project Stakeholder Risks                                       Rating                    Moderate
The importance of the MDLF and the MDP has been                 Continuous dialogue with the PA, the MoF and the MoLG on the role of the MDLF.
highlighted in both the PA 2009-2011 Plan (the PRDP) and the
2011-2013 Plan (the PNDP). However, changes in Government Resp. Bank                      Stage: Prep/Impl        Due Date: Continuous Status: Ongoing
may lead to changes in priorities and affect strategic choices. Continuous push for the Draft MDLF Law to be signed
                                                                  Resp. Bank              Stage: Impl              Due Date :Continous      Status: Ongoing
The incentive system of the MDP would be jeopardized if           Continued engagement with Donors through Sector Working Groups meetings. Continued
municipalities receive financing from other Donors without        interaction with MOPAD, MoF, and MoLG.
having to achieve performance targets. Thus far other Donors
financing municipalities have joined the project, or focused on
alternate issues that do not affect the performance incentives
(e.g., amalgamation). However, there is a likelihood that other
Donor agencies, who currently do not support the MDP, may
not subscribe to the performance targets set out by the PA and
followed in the MDP.
                                                                  Resp. Bank/Donors         Stage: Prep/Impl          Due Date: Continuous       Status: Ongoing
Implementing Agency Risks (including fiduciary)
Capacity                                                          Rating:                     Moderate
After initial recruitment problems, the MDLF, by the October      Risk Management: Continuous on-the-job training and capacity building is part of project design
2010 mission reached its full staff complement. However, there    and costs. Thus far training has included project management, human resource development, and
is still a risk that the performance of the MDLF may suffer due   management for development results, conflict resolution as well as various computer skills
to the lack of availability of necessary skills and experienced   training. The MDLF has completed a training needs assessment to ensure that skills match
staff to manage the project. Furthermore, capacity in some        institutional requirements.
municipalities is still low.                                                                                            Due Date :15 Dec,         Status:
                                                                  Resp: Client                Stage: Implementation
                                                                                                                        2011                      Completed
Project Risks
Design                                                            Rating:                     Moderate
Sub-project design and implementation was delayed, especially     Risk Management: The MDLF have hired additional staff for the Gaza strip, and local technical
in the Gaza strip.                                                consultants are also closely supervising works in Gaza to avoid delays.

                                                                  Resp:    Client          Stage: Implementation Due Date :Continous           Status: Ongoing
Social & Environmental                                            Rating:                  Low
There is a risk that the effective management of social and       Risk Management: The MDLF has hired two social specialists (one in West Bank and one in
environmental safeguards is overlooked due to lack of             Gaza Strip) and an environmental specialist to help ensure that safeguards related risks are
staffing or necessary technical skills or the MDLF does not       managed properly. EMPs are prepared for sub-projects and municipalities chose sub-
select subprojects based on public participation                  projects with community involvement in the absence of a strategic development and


                                                                           -19-
                                                                  investment plan (SDIP). SDIPs (through which municipalities also chose sub-projects) focus
                                                                  on the quality of community involvement. Community participation is a condition for MDLF’s
                                                                  subproject selection.
                                                                  Resp:       Client       Stage: Implementation Due Date :Ongoing           Status: Started
Program & Donor                                                   Rating:                  Moderate
Since the MDP is financed by a total of seven donors, a risk      Risk Management: The Funding Partners have conducted joint supervision missions and a joint
exists that donors decide to make significant changes on design   Mid-Term Review mission, upon which this AF request is based. Continued joint supervision
and disbursement issues                                           missions and monthly co-ordination meetings also together with the MDLF and the Donors occurs
                                                                  and will continue to occur under the AF.

The PA have not provided its full committed funds to the          The Board of the MDLF continues to pressure the PA to ensure that all committed funds are
project, due to its poor financial situation.                     provided to the project.

                                                                  Resp: Client and
                                                                                              Stage: Implementation Due Date :Ongoing      Status: Started
                                                                  Donors
Delivery Monitoring & Sustainability                              Rating:                     Moderate
The implementation of Cycle 1 was somewhat delayed.               Risk Management : MDLF has already undertaken Cycle 1 of the MDP and are applying lessons
                                                                  learnt to the planning and implementation of Cycle 2

                                                                                                                    Due Date :October, 30, Status:
                                                                  Resp:     MDLF            Stage: Preparation
                                                                                                                    2011                   Completed
                                                                  Risk Management: Funding Partners will meet MDLF monthly to track progress and will
                                                                  also conduct scheduled supervision missions 2 times a year.




                                                                           -20-
            ANNEX 3: USE OF PROJECT FUNDS AND REVISED ESTIMATE OF PROJECT COSTS

Table 1: Use of Funds
 Part                                           Use of Financing
     Part 1: Municipal Grants                   Scaling Up to provide a second cycle of grant financing
     Part 2: Support to Municipal Innovations
     and Efficiency
     Strengthening Newly Amalgamated            No additional financing is required.
     Municipalities
     Energy Efficiency                          Activities are complete. No additional activities anticipated.
     One Stop Shops                             Not yet started. Financing would be provided by other FPs.
     Part 3: Capacity Building                  Scaling up and Cost Overuns
                                                Scaling up: Additional packages will be provided: an additional
                                                56 municipalities will receive strategic development and
                                                investment plan packages; 20 additional municipalities will
                                                receive fixed assets registration and valuation packages; 13
                                                additional municipalities will receive financial policies and
                                                procedures manual packages.
                                                Cost overrun: This AF will finance cost overrun of the Integrated
                                                Financial and Information Management Systems. Other Funding
                                                Partners would finance Operations & Maintenance packages.
     Part 4: Project Implementation Support     N/A
     and Management Costs

Table 2: Donor Commitments to MDP in estimated Million Euros10
     Financing Partner                 Original: 2009 Cycle 1 Actual    AF: 2011 Cycle 2 Pledge

     World Bank                         7.60 (approx)                     1.40 (approx.)
     AFD                                3.20                              6.00
     KfW                                7.50                              9.5
     Denmark/Sweden MDTF               10.50 (approx.)                   11.00 (approx)
     PA                                 2.40                              3.00
     GIZ                                0.45                              0.30
     Belgium                                                              1.00
     Total                             31.65                             32.20
     Total in Million US$ Equivalent   41.0                              43.30




10
   Note that the World Bank, Danish and Swedish amounts are estimated due to currency fluctuations. World Bank
financing is committed in US$ while Danish and Swedish funds are committed in Danish and Swedish Kroner
respectively.

                                                         -21-
         ANNEX 4: PROCUREMENT AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS

1.      Procurement under this AF will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank
“Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consulting Services under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits and Grants? by World Bank Borrowers published by the World Bank in January
2011. Consultant selection will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank “Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers? published by the World Bank in January 2011.

2.      The same procurement arrangements of the original project apply to the Additional
Financing. The MDLF has responsibility for the oversight of project procurement. The MDLF
will serve as the Bank‟s main counterpart for all project procurement aspects and would ensure
that project procurement is carried out in accordance with the grant agreement and the
procurement plan. A procurement plan (PP) for contracts under Windows 2, 3, and 4 was
prepared by MDLF and agreed with the Bank. Procurement for municipal sub-projects under
Window 1 will be carried out by Recipient municipalities in accordance with the signed Grant
Implementation Agreement (GIA), sub-project procurement plan and MDP Procurement
Manual, updated in October 2011, and under direct supervision by the MDLF. Procurement
performance for the original project and has been rated satisfactory. MDLF has qualified
procurement staff with adequate experience implementing procurement following the Bank
Guidelines. Its performance has constantly improved throughout project implementation. The
procurement capacity for the municipalities has as well improved; additional procurement
training and coaching will be provided by the Local Technical Consultants.

3.     The project‟s procurement risk rating is moderate; the same risk rating would hold for
this AF. In accordance with the Bank policies, prior review thresholds for West Bank and Gaza
have recently been increased. The revised prior review thresholds for moderate risk rating
implementing agencies will apply to this AF.

4.     Financial management arrangements: All activities proposed under the additional
financing will be under the same categories as with the original project, and will be implemented
again by the MDLF. The same FM and disbursement arrangements of the original project and
will apply to this Additional Financing, which will be implemented according to the existing
Financial Manual of Procedures and the respective Grant Agreement.

5.      Current FM Performance: The project‟s financial management arrangements which
include staffing, accounting reporting, budgeting and flow of funds and audit arrangements, are
adequate. In addition, a computerized accounting system along with a Comprehensive Financial
manual of policies and procedures are in place. The Annual Audits and Quarterly IFRs were
received on time, and the Internal Audit function has been activated since mid December 2009.
The findings of these audits are reported directly to the MDLF board of Directors. However, the
MDLF should apply a risk based approach to their internal audit. Consequently, FM performance
is rated as moderately satisfactory.

6.    Parallel financing: Other funding partners will continue to provide their contribution to
the MDP on parallel financing basis. Each will disburse its funds through separate bank account
and which will be spent on the agreed on activities and included in the project procurement plan


                                              -22-
for window 2, 3 and 4. For window 1 – sub-grants to municipalities, MDLF will allocate
available funds from all donors including Bank to the targeted municipalities based on the Grant
allocation mechanism, there will be no cost sharing between the Bank and any other donor fund.
Disbursement will continue to be centralized at the MDLF, through direct payment on behalf of
municipality to all suppliers/contractors/consultants on behalf of municipalities following the
payment and internal controls procedures detailed in the financial manual of policies and
procedures, related original supporting documents will be maintained at the MDLF project files.
Separate accounting records will be maintained for each donor, quarterly IFR and annual audit
FS will be comprehensive covering the whole project activities and funding sources and will
provide separate reporting for each donor. The existing manual of policies and procedures
includes procedures for managing different donors‟ funding. Procedures include having separate
bank account for each financier, keeping separate accounting records, and regularly reconcile
accounts with project records.

7.      Interim Financial Reports (IFRs): The current reporting arrangements are satisfactory
and will be extended to the additional financing. Hence, IFRs for the proposed additional
financing will be part of the existing project IFRs, with additional separate reporting related to
each trust fund. IFRs will be prepared and submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis by no later
than 45 days after the end of the previous quarter.

8.     Audit Arrangements: The proposed additional financing financial records will be audited
annually as part of overall MDP project by an independent external auditor acceptable to the
Bank, in accordance with internationally accepted auditing standards and terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank. Audit arrangement will be extended to cover the proposed AF as well as
the other sources of funds. Consolidated Financial statement for the MDP project and additional
separate for the Bank funding will be audited and submitted to the Bank and other funding
partners not later than six months after the end of fiscal year.

9.      Disbursement Arrangements: Separate Designated Account (DA) in Euro will be opened
by the MoF under the CTA at the Bank of Palestine. The same disbursement arrangements as
under the original financing will be used for the proposed additional financings; quarterly
Interim Financial Reports (IFR) based applications, accompanied with withdrawal applications,
reconciled bank statement and copies of bank statements. At grant effectiveness, an initial
advance equivalent to a six-month cash forecast, which will be the ceiling of the DA, will be
disbursed to the new Designated Account.        The quarterly audited IFR will document the
disbursed amounts for the quarter, the commitment for the coming quarter and the next six
months cash forecast, according to which the replenishment and payment from the World Bank
will be done. The IFR will continue to be subject to review by an independent auditor to certify
the physical achievements and the corresponding resources used. Separate accounting records
will be maintained for this AF, by configuring the existing accounting system and opening a
separate cost center.

10.    Current FM Risk Rating of the Project. The overall financial management risk of the
ongoing project is considered substantial due the project structure, providing support to
Municipalities in both West Bank and Gaza; the same risk rating would hold for this AF.
Mitigating measures have been introduced and in place, which include centralizing the FM and
disbursements at the MDLF level through direct payment on behalf of municipalities to

                                              -23-
contractor/suppliers/consultants both in West Bank and Gaza. FM risk after mitigating measures
is expected to be Moderate.


Prior Review Thresholds (US$)

 Procurement Type                Moderate Risk IA       Additional requirements for MDP
 Works, Turnkey and S&I of          $15 million                      First ICB
 Plant and Equipment
 Goods                                $3 million                     First ICB
 IT Systems and Non-                  $3 million                     First ICB
 consulting Services
 Consulting Firms                     $1 million                         -
 Individual Consultants              $0.3 million                        -


Max. Contract Values for Procurement Methods (US$)

 Procurement Method                        Goods                          Works
 ICB                                     No threshold                   No threshold
 NCB                                     $0.5 million                    $2 million
 Shopping                                $0.1 million                   $0.2 million




                                             -24-
                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 33512R1
                                                                                                                                                                To                         35°30'E
                                                                                                              35°00'E                                         Nazareth

               WEST BANK                                                                                                           To Haifa

               AND GAZA
                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                        32°30'N                                                                                                                                   32°30'N
                 RIVERS                                                                                                                       Yamoun
                                                                                                                                                                    Jenin
                 MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                    Ya'bad
                                                                                                                                 Kaffeen
                 RAILROAD                                                                                                                                      Qabatia

                 ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949                                                                                                     JENIN
                 NO-MAN’S LAND AREAS,
                 ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINE, 1949                                                  To Netanya               TULKARM
                                                                                                                                      Anapta                                     Tubas
                                                                                                                        Tulkarm                                                          TUBAS
                 JERUSALEM CITY LIMIT, UNILATERALLY                                                                                                                               Tammun
                 EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967;
                 THEN ANNEXED JULY 30, 1980                                                                                                             Mt. 'Eval
                                                                                                                                                        (940 m)
                 GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                          Nablus
                                                                                                   Qalqilyah
                 ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY                                                                               QALQILYAH                              NABLUS
                                                                                           To                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                        Tel Aviv                                                                                                                    Um Qais
                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                 SALFIT
                                              34°30'E                                                                                     Salfit   West




                                                                                                                                                                                                    r
  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.




                                                                                                                                                                                               Jordan Rive
  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                       To
  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                      Ramla
                                                                                                                                                                                                             JORDAN
  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
32°00'N
                                                                                       To
                                                                                    Tel Aviv
                                                                                                                                                   Bank                                                        To 32°00'N
                                                                                                                                                                 Tall Asur                                    Amman
                                                                                                                                                                 (1,022 m)
                                                                                                                                       RAMALLAH                                          JERICHO

                                                                                                                                                     Ramallah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Amman
                                                                                                                                                                                           Jericho
           Mediterranean
                                                                                                                                                        JERUSALEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                           Sea                                                                                                                                                                                    Amman
                                                                                                                                                        JERUSALEM


                                                                                                       To                                           Bethlehem
                                                                                                     Ashdod
                                                                          ISRAEL
                                                                                                                                                      BETHLEHEM
                                                                To
                                                             Tel Aviv
                                                                                                  To
                                                                                               Ashqelon                                                                                   Dead
                              JABALYA
                                    Beit Lahia                                                                                        (1,020 m)                                            Sea
                                                                                                                                     Hebron
                           Gaza City
                                                 Jabalya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  31°30'N
                      GAZA CITY                                                                                                   HEBRON
   Gaza Nusejrat
                                                           To                                                                       Yattah
DEIR EL BALAH                     El Bureij             Beersheba
           Deir el Balah                                                                                          Zohar

      KHAN
      YUNIS
                                                                                                                                                                          To
                      Khan                                                                                                                                               Zofar
                      Yunis                                                          To
                                                                                  Beersheba
              Rafah
                           RAFAH                                                                                                                                                                JORDAN
                Abu 'Awdah
   To           (105 m)
El Arish
                  To                          WEST BANK
                  Elat                        AND GAZA

 ARAB                                                                                                     0        5        10     15 Kilometers

REP. OF
EGYPT                                                                                                     0             5            10            15 Miles

31°00'N                                                                                                                                                                                                           31°00'N

                                              34°30'E                                                           35°00'E                                                                     35°30'E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JUNE 2007
The original had problem with text extraction. pdftotext Unable to extract text.
