Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20090 RU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$80 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FOR A
NORTHERN RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
May 4, 2001
Human Development Sector Unit
Russia Country Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Ruble
1 Ruble = US$0.0346
US$1 = 28.925 Rubles
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CPPR      Country Portfolio Performance Review
FER       Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial
Institutions Development
GOR       Government of Russia
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IMF       International Monetary Fund
IMWG      Inter-Ministerial Working Group
LIBOR    London Inter-Bank Offering Rate
LPIU      Local Project Implemenation Unit
MAP       Migration Assistance Program
MEDT      Ministry of Economic Development and Trade
MOF       Ministry of Finance
PCD       Project Concept Document
PIU       Project lmplementation Unit
PMR       Project Management Report
SECAL    Sector Adjustment Loan
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Country Director:   Julian F. Schweitzer, ECC 10
Sector Director/Sector Manager:   Annette Dixon/Maureen Lewis, ECSHD
Prograni Team Leader:    Hjalte S.A. Sederlof, ECSHD



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
NORTHERN RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                            2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                         8
3. Benefits and target population                                                        9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                             14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                     16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                          16
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                             17
2. Financial                                                                            19
3. Technical                                                                           20
4. Institutional                                                                        21
5. Environmental                                                                       23
6. Social                                                                               24
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                   30
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      31
2. Critical risks                                                                       32
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       33



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             35
2. Other                                                                                35
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           36
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          36
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           37
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     43
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          53
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                    54
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                70
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        72
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                       89
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    90
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   91
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             93
Annex 11: Summary of Social Assessment                                                    95
Annex 12: Project Management and Coordination                                             103
Annex 13: Letter of Development Policy                                                    108
Annex 14: Financial Scheme for Project (Operations Manual - Section 6)                    115
MAP(S)
IBRD 30825



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Northem Restructuring Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Human Development Sector Unit
Date: May 4, 2001                                 Team Leader: Hjalte S. A. Sederlof
Country Manager/Director: Julian F. Schweitzer    Sector Manager/Director: Maureen A. Lewis
Project ID: P064238                                Sector(s): SY - Other Social Protection
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Social Protection
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[X] Loan     [ ] Credit   [] Grant      [ l Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 80.00
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                           Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75                              Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       13.87           0.00          13.87
IBRD                                                           78.15            1.05         79.20
BORROWING COUNTRY'S FIN.INTERMEDIARY/IES                        0.77            0.60          1.37
Total:                                                         92.79            1.65         94.44
Borrower: RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Responsible agency: FOUNDATION FOR ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING
Ministry of Economic Development and Trade
Contact Person: Mr. A.V. Sharonov, Deputy Minister
Other Agency(ies):
Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring
Address: 3/5 Smolensky Boulevard
Contact Person: Ms. Irina Starodubrovskaya, Director, PIU
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY         2002       2003        2004      2005
Annual    1.50       25.00      33.80       19.70
Cumulative  1  .50       26.50      60.30      80.00
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/01/2001  Expected closing date:  09/30/2005
0CA PAD Fa1   R., M. 200D



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to test a set of actions that will allow participating municipalities in
the Russian North to realize the benefits of economic restructuring and facilitate the implementat on of
sustainable municipal policies; and thereby to assist the Government in the development of a national
strategy for restructuring of the economy of the northern areas. These actions include: (i) vol intary
out-migration assistance schemes for people whose economic prospects are limited, and (ii) measures that
will allow municipalities to realize potential economic benefits resulting from a decreased population. It is
expected that these experiences will serve as a basis for similar initiatives in other Northern communities,
appropriately adapted by the community to its particular requirements.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key indicator of progress towards the project's development objective is reduced expenditures emerging
in the local budgets resulting from the reduced population and closure of buildings. Leading indicator-s are:
(a) out-migration taking place; (b) local restructuring plans being implemented, (c) the effects of
restructuring reflected in local budgets, and (d) municipal management strengthened.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2001-0007                Date of latest CAS discussion: 02/06/01
The strategies supported by the project are consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy for Russia.
The CAS emphasizes key reform areas and priorities: (i) the need to devise cost effective ways of providing
assistance to residents and communities of the North, both for social and economic reasons; (ii) establishing
an enabling environment for private sector development, including through a reduction in mandated ;,ocial
benefits and subsidies paid by enterprises; (iii) coping with the economic and social effects cf the
downsizing of the industrial structure in the North; (iv) supporting the economic restructuring in orler to
make the North economically viable.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The territory defined as the North by the Goverrnent of Russia covers 57 percent of the Russian land-nass,
most of which is tundra and permafrost. This area contains the majority of nation's natural resources (oil,
natural gas, diamonds, nickel, etc.). Although largely located within the Arctic Circle, industrial
development of the North was among the strategic priorities of the Soviet state. Massive investments
created an economic infrastructure that required extensive subsidies to cover the high costs of produ.ction
associated with an extremely harsh climate and remote location. Large-scale labor inflows to the North
were ensured by the Central Government to support the level of economic activity. This began with forced
labor camps during the Stalin period and was later replaced by a comprehensive system of monetarY and
non-cash incentives for work in the extreme conditions of the Arctic territories. As a consequence, over
10% of the Russian population lives above the Arctic circle, as compared to 1% in western countries with
significant land within the Arctic circle.
Subsidies to the Northern economy included artificially low prices of inputs for Northern enterprise, and
utility companies; centralized shipment and delivery of food and fuel to Northern territories financed by the
federal budget (commonly known as the Northern shipment); and compensation packages for workers.
These Northern compensation packages for workers included: (i) higher wages through so-called Northern
- 2 -



coefficients, (ii) publicly financed early retirement, (iii) annual allowances for leave and travel to central
Russia and longer paid annual leave; (iv) relocation grants for transfer to the North for long term residence
and for return when nearing retirement age. The overall system of subsidies and benefits equaled roughly
6% of GDP annually.
Since 1992, the Government has been attempting to create a viable economic base in the North by phasing
out public support, in line with the country's general transition objective towards a market economy. The
Government has significantly reduced federal subsidies to Northern enterprises and industries, and prices
for their inputs and outputs were liberalized. The federally financed Northern shipment of food and fuel
was also drastically cut. As a result, much of the Northern industrial base is undergoing, or will require,
extensive downsizing and restructuring in order to become economical. At the household level, this has
resulted in redundancies, early retirement and growing unemployment. At the level of municipalitie., local
authorities are facing shrinking resources and increasing demand for housing, social services and assistance
from a larger non-working population. Thus, a series of basic issues are coming to the forefront, as the
dramatic distortions from the Soviet era make themselves felt:
*   At the enterprise level, companies are facing the need to rationalize operations in order to become
competitive and are shedding labor. But at the same time they remain burdened with traditional
responsibilities that they can no longer afford, such as housing and social service provision.
*   At the municipal level, local authorities are facing shrinking resources as enterprises retrench and
federal subsidies disappear, and they have neither the means nor the management skills to take over the
social responsibilities that normally would devolve to them from the enterprises.
*   At the level of households, opportunities are failing for the majority of the Northern population (the
"population overhang"). Inflation has eliminated opportunities to leave the North for many longer-term
residents, who, dependent on social support, see their living standards decline. For others, labor
shedding is increasing unemployment in areas where new employment opportunities are severely
limited for the foreseeable future, placing additional demands on limited municipal services. Given the
harsh climate, the limited economic prospects and the eroding services and transfer payments, the vast
majority of Northern residents would prefer to live elsewhere. Social assessments have made it clear
that the opportunity to out-migrate is a high priority for many. Moreover, there are significant
psychological and physical health benefits to moving out of the North, particularly for children.
Reducing the financial burdens in the expensive Northern environment offers the possibility for a win-win
across the major actors in the North. Without the opportunity to downsize at all levels, the downward
spiral of unemployment, overburdened firms and municipalities, and reduced federal subsidies will make
the North an even less viable location than it is today. Central elements of such a strategy should include
the following:
*   Out-migration.  Restructuring the North requires a reduction in the population.  The Northern
population overhang is a holdover from past policies and incentives, but because of the cost of moving
and the rigidity of the Russian housing market people have found out-migration difficult. Moreover, the
cost of food, utilities, housing, virtually all consumption, is far more costly in the North where
everything is imported; its isolation makes transportation much more costly than elsewhere in Russia;
and family plots, the mainstay of household welfare in Russia, produce little because the soil is poor,
the climate harsh, and the period of sun short and intense. Facilitating moving to more hospitable areas
of Russia for the unemployed, retired, and others offers the possibility of reducing subsidies and costs
to the federal and local governments of maintaining an artificially large population in the North,
improving the financial footing of fledging private companies, and enhancing the welfare of the
population.
-3 -



*   Enterprises. To become more productive, firms (i) need to be relived of social service obligatiois that
are in fact the responsibility of municipalities; (ii) require the flexibility to hire and fire as dictated by
business needs, not government directives; and, (iii) should not be made responsible for the housiiig and
utilities of retired and laid off workers. If these issues are not addressed, private investmelit and
extraction of valuable minerals is jeopardized.
* Municipalities need to be equipped to manage their jurisdictions and cannot rely on private companies.
Costs need to be reduced, but the higher cost structure in the North for infrastructure mainte-iance,
reaching and subsidizing dispersed communities, and providing social services makes it difficult to
achieve cost structures of similar sized municipalities in Russia.  Similarly, federal and local
governments can no longer afford the rising dependent population. Finally, the existing sto ck of
housing and infrastructure is in a dilapidated state, many buildings that would otherwise be condemned
continue to be used due to the need for housing. Out-migration offers the opportunity to consolidate
families in the more livable structures, and the razing of buildings that are no longer viable that are also
the most costly to maintain.
Government Strategy
The current Government's economic program continues and deepens the process of creating a Aiable
Northem economy, begun in 1992. It provides an organizing framework for the direction of reform in the
North, bringing Northern policies in line with, and integrating them into, a coherent national approa.ch to
regional management and development. This will, inter alia, include the following elements: (i) enac ment
of new Northern labor and social legislation providing for higher reliance on market forces and the gradual
elimination of incentives for in-migration to the North; (ii) accelerating economic restructuring of
enterprises through social asset divestiture and other measures that permit industrial rationalization; (iii)
permitting downsizing and/or closing of non-viable communities; (iv) improving efficiency in provision of
municipal and social services; and (v) opening possibilities for restructuring through the suppcrt of
out-migration.
Already, the Government has introduced a Program of Priority Measures for 2000-2001. Most important
has been the elimination of the Ministry of the North, which both symbolized and perpetuated the privi eged
status of the North. Other actions include: (i) new income tax legislation eliminating mandated salary
supplements and augmented benefits for private sector workers in the North (ii) legislation removing the
funds for Northern privileges; (iii) planned cuts in mandatory benefits that would further reduce the federal
subsidy; and (iv) elimination of mandatory benefits for non-public sectors by early 2002. Together these
place the North on a more equal footing with the other Russian regions, and reduce its attractiveness for
in-migration.
The Government presented to the Bank a Policy Letter outlining this strategy. The Loan Agreement
specifies that the Government shall carry out the Project in conformity with the undertakings set forth i,li the
Policy Letter. The Loan Agreement gives the Bank the right to suspend disbursements under the Loan if
the Government fails to implement any of the substantive undertakings set forth in the Policy Letter or
takes any actions which shall make it improbable that the program set forth in the Policy Letter will be
carried out. The Loan Agreement also specifies the obligation of the Government to report annually oil the
implementation of the actions set forth in the Policy Letter. The Policy Letter is attached as Annex 13.
- 4 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
A. Sector issues to be addressed:
Large groups of Northern population are stuck in the project sites. The project will provide migration
assistance support to clearly defined groups of Northern residents who want to leave. This will (a) permit
the acceleration of settlement downsizing and other local restructuring efforts; and, (b) mitigate the social
costs of transition by providing Northern residents a benefit payment to leave communities that are no
longer economically viable.
Maintaining costly housing stock increasingly challenges municipal budgets. The project will reduce the
size of the housing stock in all project sites, including downsizing some communities and close the small
non-viable settlement of Promyshlenny in Vorkuta. Institutional reforms in the management of the
remaining housing stock will further reduce the municipal costs and ensure the economic impact of
out-migration assistance.
Management of new responsibilities is challenging to municipal authorities. The project will assist
municipal authorities to learn how to manage housing and social assets (kindergartens, utilities,
transportation) which have been divested to the municipalities from enterprises that are undergoing
restructuring in mono-industrial areas.
Incentives to migrate to the North:
(a) Subsidized housing and communal services serves as an additional incentive to migration to the
North. The project will promote increase of customer payment for housing and communal services
according to the guidelines under the federal government housing reform program.
(b) The Northern legislative framework As the Government launches a broad-based program of
Northern reform, it will include a gradual elimination of all artificial incentives for migration to the
North. The project will help initiate this process. It will support the development and enactment of
new legislation providing greater reliance on market forces, including in the area of labor demand in the
non-budget sector. The project will provide technical assistance for the preparation and promotion of a
package of new legislative and normative acts facilitating the transformation of the Russian Northem
economy. In the meantime, it is not expected that the current in-migration incentive structures, which
are unfunded, would provoke any in-migration beyond normal in-and out-flows of population in the
project areas.
B: Other strategic options explored:
Industrial restructuring. While defining the strategic priorities of the project, it was decided that the
current project will not deal with enterprise restructuring per se in the participating regions. Rather, it
would concentrate on providing a facilitating environment for this process. Industrial restructuring in the
North is well under way as a result of the reduction of federal subsidies and price liberalization. This
process has brought about the need for restructuring at the municipal level in order to maintain the
momentum of, and further, enterprise restructuring. Industrial downsizing is taking place in all three
participating regions of the project. It is promoted by the Govemment's coal sector restructuring program
in Vorkuta (also supported by the Bank through two Coal SECALs and the Coal Sector Implementation
- 5 -



Assistance Project - see section D2 below); privatization of Norilsk Nickel within the Government's
privatization program; and liberalization of the gold industry in Magadan region, according to the
Government's sector strategy in this area.
C. Regional specifics of the project:
The project will be implemented at municipal level in three Arctic sites that represent the diver;ity of
economic and social circumstances of the Russian North.
a) The only industry in Susuman district of Magadan region is gold prospecting.  Since 1992 the
Government has withdrawn all its subsidies for inputs to gold production and completely liberalized gold
prices. Prices currently equal the London Metal Exchange quotation multiplied by the ruble exchange rate.
The outcome of this policy has been (a) major contraction of gold production in Susuman district as many
producers found themselves insolvent without subsidies; and (b) internal restructuring of gold producing
firms, including the replacement of permanent workers with seasonal labor.
The project will assist in the transformation of publicly subsidized gold mining settlements, which cuwrently
have a predominantly permanent population into viable commercial bases for gold productior with
primarily a seasonal labor force. Specifically, the project will: (i) provide out-migration support to up to
6,000 people; (ii) support the concentration of subsidized housing and heating to the town of Susuman
itself; and (iii) provide technical assistance to support institutional reforms in housing and budget
management at the municipal level.
b) Norilsk is a single-company Arctic city of 250,000 serving as a base for the large non-firrous
metallurgic enterprise "Norilsk Nickel". During economic transition the enterprise was privatized. State
subsidies were eliminated, as well as Government restrictions on the export the enterprise's output. The
enterprise is now subject to price fluctuations and competition in the world market for non-ferrous metals.
Due to the effect of the drop in the price of nickel in the late 1990s the enterprise was forced to start a
major restructuring program, including the reduction of employment by 20%, elimination of large scale
hiring programs, the divestiture from auxiliary services and the introduction of seasonal work.
In Norilsk the project will assist with the downsizing of the city, which is already underway. Specifically,
the project will: (i) provide out-migration support for up to 15,000 people; (ii) demolish dilapidated hcusing
to reduce housing expenditures of the enterprise and therefore increasing their tax obligations (cur-ently
enterprises can reduce tax obligations by covering housing costs); and (iii) support housing re-^ormns
including the contracting out of housing maintenance, and increased cost-recovery in housing and related
utilities.
c) The only industry in Vorkuta is coal mining. The Vorkuta coal industry is affected by the coal ;ector
crisis and by the impact of economic transition. The Government has reduced significantly the volutne of
subsidies for coal producers, liberalized prices and initiated coal sector privatization. This has led to
restructuring, which resulted in the closure of seven of the sixteen mines in the Vorkuta area. Vorklita is
considered to be one of the economically devastated areas of the country.
In the city of Vorkuta, the project will assist in downsizing of Vorkuta city. Specifically, the project will:
(i) provide out-migration support for all residents of one non-viable settlement in the Vorkuta area; ard for
selected groups of the non-working population in the Vorkuta area (up to 6,500 people total); (ii) derr olish
housing and other facilities in one non-viable settlement and in two sections of the city of Vorkuta; (iii)
implement a revised intra-governmental fiscal relationship between regional authorities and the
- 6 -



municipality of Vorkuta; and (iv) provide technical assistance to support institutional refortns in the
provision of housing and utility services.
The participating project sites present three different models of local restructuring. In all three sites the
project is expected to lead to improved viability of the local economy through population downsizing,
demolition of dilapidated and unused housing stock, support improved efficiency in the provision of
housing services. The result will be a significant reduction of budget and quasi-budget expenditures.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will have five components:
The Migration Assistance Component will provide migration assistance allowances to specific groups of
population in the participating regions to facilitate their out-migration. The allowances will help migrants
secure housing in the central regions of Russia. The migrants will also be provided with transportation of
their household belongings and plane/train tickets. An information system will be developed to provide
information about housing possibilities, and regional specifics about the job market, healthcare, education
and training opportunities, climate, etc. Housing searches will be possible though the system and a paper
version of the information will also be distributed free of charge in the participating regions. A public
awareness program about available migration assistance will be put in place. Assistance will be available
to allow migrants to contact real estate agencies, and legal assistance for signing housing contracts.
The Local Restructuring Support Component will assist the participating municipalities sites to reduce
their dilapidated and unused housing stock; as well as implement reforms in housing and utility services
management. It will assist the municipalities in the management of assets and provision of services
transferred to them by municipalities in mono-industrial areas. This component includes the following
activities:
(a) technical assistance to municipalities and regions for institutional reforms in housing management;
(b) technical assistance to municipalities and regions to ensure compliance with the Environmental
Management Plan in the demolition of abandoned and dilapidated housing and other facilities;
(c) training in the area of municipal management to the staff of participating municipalities and regions;
(d) technical assistance in other critical areas of municipal policy related to local restructuring, as identified
during implementation.
The Monitoring and Evaluation Component will support monitoring of the process and evaluation of the
economic outcomes of restructuring, social aspects of out-migration and the evaluation and dissemination
of project outcomes. The program will address real time management needs as well as the need to
maximize learning from a new effort. It will include exit surveys of migrants about the services provided
by the program; tracer studies of migrants regarding their situation following migration; annual studies of
economic and fiscal impact of the local restructuring plans in the municipalities; ex-post review of the cost
of housing purchased by migrants and effects of the program on the housing market in destination regions.
The Federal Component will provide assistance to introduce regulatory procedures aimed at supporting
the gradual deregulation of the Northern economy. This will include: (a) provision of advisory services on
legal, economic, fiscal and social aspects of Northern restructuring for the Federal Government, its
agencies, regional authorities and legislature; (b) support for applied research on Northern issues including
- 7 -



interaction of Northern labor market with the overall economy; (c) support for dissemination and consensus
building activities, based on the experience of the project. The component also includes the development of
a national information system on housing and other regional information (see Migration Assistance
Component above).
5. The Project Management Component will finance project management costs at the central and
municipal levels.
nictive             Bk-        % of
:-X-2pa.n                          Seto          Cot %0 of    fi na'-|nK [;cing   Bank
1. Migration Assistance Component  Social Assistance    76.23    80.0      69.43      86.8
2. Local Restructuring Support     Public Sector       5.77        6.1      0.59        0.7
Component                          Management
Adjustmnent
3. Monitoring and Evaluation       Other Social        1.20        1.3      1.00        1.2
Component                          Protection
4. Federal Policy Component        Other Economic      3.34        3.5      2.43        3.0
Policy
5. Project Management Component    Non-Sector          7.90        8.3      5.75        7.2
=  Specific                I
Total Project Costs                  94.44      99.2      79.20   -  99.0
Front-end fee                    0.80       0.8       0.80        1.0
Total Financing Required                    95.24     100.0      80.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will facilitate and promote the Government's aims to create a viable economy in the North. The
out-migration component helps create the fiscal and financial space for reform; local restructuring support
component helps the municipalities to draw the benefits from a more manageable population base; and the
federal policy component helps articulate strategies for implementing enabling legislation. Specifically, the
following key policy and institutional reforms are supported:
(a) Incentive-based public out-migration assistance schemes will be developed and tested by the pro ect.
These schemes are transparent, flexible, affordable and will allow choice for migrants. Previously the
Government supported programs that did not include these features. The scheme tested under the project
will provide the Government with new efficient, effective and socially acceptable instruments to implement
public policy where voluntary out-migration assistance might be needed, including restructuwing
one-company towns, Northern restructuring, coal sector restructuring, military downsizing etc.
(b) Support for the implementation of three types of Northern community downsizing and restructuring.
These plans, developed by the local municipalities, include the demolition of housing, improved
management of housing, and the introduction of transparent and predictable budget procedures.
Implementation of these actions would ensure the sustainability of Northern municipalities.
(c) Support for more transparent and stable principles of fiscal relationships between participaling
municipalities and regional authorities. These principles are being implemented in one of the sites,
discussed in two others and completely match the national strategy of intrabudgetary relationships. Specific
- 8 -



steps in this direction will be taken by project effectiveness and further supported by provision of technical
assistance.
(d) In the area of federal policy, the project supports two types of reforms. First, legislative changes will be
introduced to eliminate benefits on the basis of geographic location (the North). The current package of
benefits (regional wage supplements, early retirement, etc.) would thereafter no longer apply to new
entrants into the North. Accrued rights of current residents in the North would remain. While in-migration
into the North has been steadily falling and currently is at some 5% of the total Northern population, this
legislation is important, first, in harmonizing regional policies, and, second, in eliminating unnecessarily
distortive policies that encourage in-migration.  Second through the Federal Component, the project
supports the analysis and formulation of new regulatory procedures to promote further restructuring in the
North along market principles.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project is expected to provide financial, economic and social benefits. The principal benefits are the
following:
(a) reduced population and improved economic viability of municipalities in three sites. Calculation show
that savings for the consolidated budget system might be up to $28 million per year after and if all project
activities and related policies are implemented (see Annex 4);
(b) assistance to up to 25,000 people to migrate to destinations of their choice, allowing them to leave
Arctic areas that have extremely harsh living conditions and reduced economic prospects;
(c) comprehensive set of municipal downsizing activities (including migration assistance, housing closure
and demolition and improved housing management) that would be properly tested, fine-tuned and available
for use in other Arctic communities of limited viability after adjustment for local circumstances;
(d) properly designed and tested mechanisms for sustainable migration support. Availability of this
mechanism would allow the Government to increase effectiveness of existing Northern resettlement
programs. Sustainability of these programs would be reached if they are implemented at municipal level
and if they are complemented with actions aimed at generating economic benefits of reduced population;
(e) the project approach, if expanded, will allow the Government to further reduce transfers and subsidies
to the North.
(f) improved credibility of the federal Government with the regions following the successful experience of
federal Government helping municipalities develop solutions to pressing social and economic issues;
(g) reduced social tensions as a result of eased population pressures and better functioning communities.
Target populations: Beneficiaries of the project are specific categories of households affected by economic
transition or living in non-viable communities and who want to move, primarily out of the North. All
participants will have the option to move to the region of their choice within Russia. The target groups in
each site were selected through participatory process involving local administrations, labor unions,
employers and local groups in consultation with the Bank, based on the specific features of the economic
restructuring taking place in that location and on local priorities.
In Susuman District, eligibility is based on the downsizing taking place in the gold industry. A number of
small mining settlements are being converted into seasonal settlements for a reduced number of company
employees, and responsibility for servicing these settlements is being transferred to the gold mining
-9-



companies. The district administration would like to provide "residual" households with an opportunity to
move, in order to facilitate the downsizing process. In addition to the households in the settlements .o be
converted to seasonal settlements, specific target groups from Susuman City are also included.
In Norilsk, the target population is selected from economically and socially vulnerable households
including: (i) non-working, old age populations; and (ii) households with characteristics that correlate with
poverty (families with many children).
In Vorkuta, the target population include two groups of non-working, old age people and all the residents of
non-viable settlement Promyshlenny where all the surrounding mines have closed and 100% of housing is
proved to be dilapidated.
In each site, the eligibility is determined according to precisely defined verifiable criteria and reflect an
individual's permanent status (i.e. documentation on disability status, etc.). Details on eligible categories
selected for the project in each site are included in Annex 2.
In addition to those who receive migration assistance allowances, remaining households will also benefit
from the project, as the municipal government will be able to provide better social services to a smaller
commuinty.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Governance
The issues addressed in this project are interdisciplinary and multidimensional. The project touches upon
economic reform, municipal restructuring, labor mobility and the social costs of transition. These issues
are handled by separate ministries and agencies in the Government and, unlike many other projects, this
project does not fall clearly into the domain of any one ministry. Therefore project preparation and
implementation will be overseen by an Inter-Ministerial Working Group (IMWG) to coordinate the
different interests. The IMWG reports to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Affairs and includes the
Ministries of Economic Development and Trade, Finance, Labor and Social Development; the Government
Apparat; and the Federal Center for Project Finance. The IMWG is headed by the Deputy Ministe- of
Economic Development and Trade.
At the municipal level, the project also has many important stakeholders, who were brought together to
oversee project preparation and implementation in each site. The policy changes and restructuring elements
of the project require the support of these stakeholders in order for the changes to be successful. Therefore,
Coordination/Supervisory Councils were established in each site. These Councils are responsible for
general management and control over project implementation in the respective regions. The
Coordination/Supervisory Council comprise key stakeholders in each site including representatives of the
local administration, local legislators, major employers, major labor unions, and representatives from the
settlement to be closed.
- 10-



Project Implementation Arrangements.
At the central technical level, the analytical, administrative, legal, financial arrangements of the project are
being handled by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which reports to the IMWG. It is located in the
Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institution Development (FER). The FER is a
non-commercial foundation which is currently responsible for five World Bank-financed projects, in
addition to this project.  The PIU will utilize the central units of the FER including, Management
Procurement, Finance and Accounting.
Local Project Implementation Units (LPIUs) will be established in each participating region. In Vorkuta
and Susuman the local administrations decided to establish the LPIU within the municipal administration.
They will allocate staff and resources from the local administration for the unit. In Norilsk, the decision
was taken to set up a non-commercial entity for the LPIU that would be jointly established by the city
administration and the main enterprise. In the future, this unit is expected to take responsibility for
implementing all migration assistance program in the city regardless of the source of financing. In all cases
some costs for the LPIUs would be covered by the loan, but most of the financing will be from the local
administrations, and some financing from the enterprise in the case of Norilsk.
The project will be implemented over a four-year period. This assumes that there will be a six to nine
month start-up period prior to launching the Migration Assistance Program. There will be two years of
migration during the summer months and then another year and a half for the consolidation activities to be
completed. As implementation of the MAP is constrained to the summer months, it is critical that
implementation does not fall behind schedule or an entire year could be lost. Therefore, preparation and
pre-implementation work is being done using funds from a grant from the Federal Center for Project
Finance.
Project Implementation Procedures
Project Implementation Plan and Operations Manual.  The central PIU has prepared a Project
Implementation Plan to facilitate the management and implementation of the project. The PIP includes (i)
sector background and issues; (ii) project objectives and  description; (iii) detailed description of
implementation arrangements; (iv) detailed cost estimates; and (v) a detailed implementation schedule. In
addition, the PrU has prepared an Operations Manual which includes: (i) financial management
arrangements; (ii) project reporting; (iii) procurement arrangements and (iv) detailed guidelines for the
implementation of the migration assistance program including application procedures, computation of
subsidies, completion of housing contracts, payment of housing certificates, disbursement procedures and
other project management information. The procedures for certificates are based on a draft Govemrnment
Resolution on the Migration Assistance Program, which will be adopted prior to loan effectiveness.
Instructions for Pilot Regions have also been prepared which detail the operations for the LPIUs.
Financial Management. The FER will be responsible for financial management of project funds. The
assessment of the financial management capacity of the PIU was carried out and the assessment concluded
that the FM capacity of FER meets the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. The
financial reporting system is capable of producing several different types of reports, including:
*   Annual project management reports (PMRs) in accordance with Bank requirements;
*   Quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) in conformity with Bank requirements;
*   Annual FER entity financial statements prepared in accordance with IAS (may be transformed
from Russian financial statements at the year end);
- 1 1 -



*   Annual FER financial statements prepared in accordance with Russian Legislation;
*   Reports prepared at the request of the Department for International Financial Organizations in the
Ministry of Finance and the Federal Center for Project Finance.
The FER has undertaken steps to upgrade and strengthen the financial management system to h andle
multiple projects. The process has proceeded in the following three stages:
1. Methodology update - Deloitte and Touche consultants were hired in the fall of 1999 to revie'N and
upgrade methodology and during the finalization of this phase, the Russian Federation issued a new Chart
of Accounts, requiring additional steps to bring the system into compliance with the new decree. This step
has been finished and adopted by FER.
2. Implementation - FER has selected Platinum software and the firm has been integrating the
methodology into the financial management system. This task will be completed shortly allowing .uiple
time for the third phase.
3. Testing - The final stage is the testing of the integrated financial system and this will be undertaken
during the third and fourth quarters of the year. This will ensure a smooth transition as of January 1, 2002.
Auditing. Project financial statements will be audited annually in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing by independent private auditor acceptable to the Bank. Project financial statements will be
prepared in accordance with World Bank guidelines. The audit report will be of such scope and details as
the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by an independent auditor, acceptable 1.o the
Bank, for SOEs, against which disbursements have been made or are due to be made from the loar, and
SOEs which will be included in the audit reports accompanying the financial statements. In addition to the
project audit, FER will submit to the Bank audited entity financial statements prepared in accordance with
International Accounting Standards. The audit reports will be submitted to the Bank not later that 6
months of the end of the fiscal year.
Project Management Reports. In accordance with Bank guidelines, the PIU will prepare quarterly Project
Management Reports (PMRs). These reports describe the achievements of the previous quarter and the
expected activities for the following quarter. The PMRs will include financial statements, project progress
reports and procurement management reports. The LPIUs will be responsible for contributing information
to the PIU each quarter for the PMRs. It should be noted that PMRs will not be used for disbursement
purposes.
Annual Reports on Monitoring and Evaluation. By June 1 of each year, the PIU will prepare ainual
reports integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed. These reports w ill be
discussed with the Bank by September 1 of each year and thereafter, the Government and the PIU will take
all measures to ensure the efficient carrying out of the project, of the action and policies referred to in the
Policy Letter and in the Local Restructuring Plans, and the achievement of project objectives.
Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The Government will prepare, in collaboration with the Bank,
an ICR upon Project completion, and in any event, not later than six months after the closing date. The
ICR will include an assessment of the execution of the project; costs and benefits derived or to be derived;
the performance of the Borrower, the Bank and other agencies involved in project implementation rega -ding
their respective obligations and accomplishments; and lessons learned. The ICR will also include plar s for
future operation of the equipment that has been financed under the project, including proposed indicat( rs to
monitor and evaluate future operations.
- 12 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Alternatives considered for this project included: (i) an adjustment or adaptable program lending operation;
(ii) migration assistance with no municipal downsizing; (iii) assistance for relocation from economically
depressed regions (not necessarily the North) and (iv) housing construction for the migrants.
In an adjustment loan, there is a risk that in providing funds to the federal budget, other demands on the
budget may take precedence and the project program would not be fully funded. Further, as this is a new
type of project, it requires more flexibility for expenditures than the Russian Government's budget code
allows. This flexibility for use of federal funds is allowed in the context of an investmnent loan. Once the
initial program is completed and procedures for the program have been tested, then federal budget funds
could be allocated for continued financing.
It was also suggested that an Adaptable Program Loan could be considered as the Government has
expressed an interest in a larger follow-on project. This option has been rejected as the operation is risky
and there is a need to test the schemes to be developed and evaluate the implementation and impact prior to
making a larger commitment.
The option of resettlement assistance with no municipal restructuring was rejected because the Bank study
and follow up project work concluded that sustainable outcomes of a reduced population would require
additional actions other than population resettlement. The demolition of housing will ensure financial
viability of the project. Increased cost recovery for housing and utilities are an important step to remove
distortive incentives for further in-migration to the Northern sites. Complementing out-migration support
with local restructuring actions make the model complete and applicable for replication.
Another option, "national targeting of depressed regions" was considered but rejected in favor of targeted
interventions to address the particular circumstances of the Arctic North. This decision to concentrate on
the North was taken because: (i) relative costs are higher in the North and living conditions harshest; and
(ii) possibilities of economic diversification in the North are very limited, in contrast to other economically
devastated areas where other restructuring strategies besides downsizing could be explored. Therefore, it
was decided that this project would focus on the North, but that the models developed could be considered
for application in other depressed areas in the future.
A final option considered was to support current Government approach according to which the federal
budget allocates funds to Northern regions to finance construction of housing in central Russia for
migrants. Based on a decade of experience, this option has proven to be inefficient: it does not give
migrants the option of choosing the destination region, the control over use of public funds is in the hands
of administration rather than in the hands of the beneficiary. As evidenced by the long waiting lists for
migration assistance, it has been unable to assist the majority of those who wish to migrate. Therefore
design effort focused on models which allow higher transparency in use of migration assistance and higher
degree of choice of destinations for migrant.
- 13-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                         Project                    (PS R)Rtings
::______________________________   ____:__________________ 11 {Bank-financed   projects  or _
Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                         Progress (IP)    Objective (CIO)
Community restructuring and social    Enterprise Housing Divestiture      S               S
asset divestiture                    Project
Fiscal management                    Regional Fiscal Technical            S               S
Assistance Project
Coal sector restructuring            Coal Sector Adjustment Loan          S               S
(Coal SECAL I) - completed
Coal Sector Adjustment Loan         U               S
(Coal SECAL II)
Coal Implementation                  S              S
Assistance Project
Other development agencies
USAID                                 Relocation scheme for retired
officers
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project design has drawn exhaustively on relevant national, Bank and other donor experience both in
the areas of technical design and implementation arrangements. Several of the lessons learned arn as
follows:
Work directly with municipal authorities. Experience has shown that on issues of local restructuring it is
necessary to work directly with municipal level authorities who are responsible for housing manager-ent
and will benefit from budget savings to be generated (Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project). The prcject
is being implemented directly at the municipal level and the authorities are committed to implementing
reforms. This lesson was reflected in the overall design of the project.
Reform municipal services. In the Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project, the separation of the functions
of ownership management and provision of municipal services have proven to be important to improve
efficiency, as has the competitive selection of contractors for service delivery. These lessons have driven the
design of local restructuring plans. The transfer of relevant knowledge and experience for these measures
will be possible because the Foundation selected to implement the Northem Restructuring Project is also
responsible for implementation of the EHDP.
Provide a Safety Net when Increasing Cost-Recovery. A sufficient safety net needs to be in place for
poor households when increasing cost recovery for utilities and communal services. This has teen
incorporated into the local restructuring plans and the project conditionality related to cost recovery
whereby there is a "safety switch" to slow the increase in cost-recovery if a certain percentage of
- 14 -



households requires assistance to pay these bills.
Use Housing Certificates instead of housing construction. Housing construction and assigning housing
to migrants proved to be an inefficient, costly and ineffective instrument for migration assistance. There is
also a large risk for return migration in housing construction programs due to the limited scope of choice
for migrants. Housing certificates have proved to be a workable mechanism for allocating housing
certificates.   This has been done both under a USAID-financed program  and also under a
Government-financed program for retired military officers. Based on this experience, the Migration
Assistance Program has been designed using housing certificates as an instrument that will (a) directly
allocate subsidies to the final beneficiary and (b) ensure voluntary selection of destination and specific
housing. Under the project the certificates will be used to purchase finished housing only, because
experience has shown that when certificates are used for unfinished housing, the subsidy transfers from the
migrant to the construction firm and is less efficient (Government housing certificate program for retiring
officers).
Use of National Banking System for processing housing certificates. Sberbank has proven to be
capable of handling the payment of certificates through its national network of branch offices. There are
established procedures for these payments and interaction with the Federal Treasury and local branches of
the Treasury. Sberbank is the only bank with nationwide coverage, thus it is important that a mechanism
has been established and proven in an earlier program (Government housing certificate program for retiring
officers).
Effective Government oversight. Government oversight over PIU activities is important to ensure
Government responsibility for policy and implementation. Oversight by the Government for this project
will be achieved through two methods. The Government has established an Inter-Ministerial Working
Group for the project, which has overall responsibility for implementation and policy.  In addition, the
Supervisory Board of the Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institution Development
(FER), which is the PIU for the project, includes representatives of MOF, MEDT, FCPF and other
concerned ministries.
Early Establishment of a Coordination Unit. Experience in Russia shows that early establishment of a
coordination unit or use of an existing unit improves project performance. Based on this experience, the
Government decided to use an existing PIU to implement this project. In addition, the selected PIU has also
been responsible for the implementation of the Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project which has been
critical to implement lessons learned in that project. Local implementation units are being designed and
these units will be formally established as a condition of disbursement for migration assistance allowances
in each participating municipality. Further, staff training and an Operations Manual will be provided by
the PIU.
Readiness for implementation. Agreements reached during the 1998 and 1999 CPPR, and the 1999 CAS
identify triggers for the readiness of projects for implementation. These include the establishment of a
functioning PIm; procurement documents for the first year of implementation prepared by negotiations;
sub-loan agreements and implementation agreements (if necessary) prepared by negotiations and finalized
project design, agreement on implementation and repayment arrangements by negotiations to avoid changes
between the Board date and effectiveness.  This project meets all benchmarks for readiness for
implementation.
- 15-



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Since the beginning of market reforns in Russia, Northern restructuring has been high on the agenda of the
Russian Government. In the recent years, the Government has explored key strategic options for
developing the Northern economy within the new market framework. To this end, the Government has
taken several key steps, including:
* Prepared and approved a Governmental Strategy for Northern Policy, which is outlined in the
Policy Letter.
*   The government 10 year program of Economic Development explicitly sets the goal of mak:ing
Northern policy, a regular part of general regional policies, i.e. eliminating all specifically
"Northern" mandatory benefits and privileges. The program of Priority Measures for 2000-2001,
envisaged within the 10 year program of Economic Development, stipulates the first steps toAard
reaching this objective, of which the first two have been already been taken:
*   abolishment of the Ministry of the North, which both symbolized and perpetuated the
privileged status of the North.
*   new income tax legislation eliminating mandated salary supplements and augmented
benefits for private sector workers in the North
*   legislation removing the funds for Northem privileges;
e   planned cuts in mandatory benefits that would further reduce the federal subsidy; and
-   elimination of mandatory benefits for non-public sectors by early 2002.
*   Establishment of an Inter-Ministerial Working Group to oversee project preparation md
implementation (re-confirmed by the Deputy Prime Minister following appraisal);
*   Government approval of the project concept;
*   Allocation of project preparation funds, on a grant basis, from the Federal Center for Pro ect
Finance for project preparation and pre-implementation activities;
*   Full responsibility for preparation of the Project Implementation Plan;
*   Active participation in preparation missions including a member from the Working Group
(including Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade) accompanying the missior. to
each of the project sites;
*   The Government has made several public statements about its intention to build on the lessons
from this program and develop an extended program covering a other parts of the North.
In the project sites, several steps have been taken during project preparation that demonstrate strong
commitment at the local level:
*   Adoption of Local Restructuring Plans by all participating municipalities;
*   The Head of Local Administration in Norilsk and the General Director of Norilsk Combinat signed
the decision on the joint establishment of the local project implementation unit;
*   Vorkuta has begun the restructuring of transportation;
*   Norilsk has begun the restructuring of housing maintenance;
*   Susuman District has increased cost recovery for municipal services;
*   Susuman District and Vorkuta have both signed agreements on stable inter-budgetary practi.-es
with their respective regional administrations.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Drawing on its extensive experience in restructuring in ECA countries, and in Russia, as well as its
experience in migration and resettlement elsewhere, the Bank is bringing valuable new elements to the
- 16 -



design of reform. It has assisted the Government and municipalities to significantly rethink their approach
to Northern restructuring and migration, with a particular emphasis on the key role of local communities
and beneficiaries themselves in the process. Thus, the emphasis on migration assistance together with
technical assistance for local restructuring, has become understood and accepted in the participating
regions. The benefits of this strategy are recognized by central and regional authorities, as well as
migrants. It is expected that the policy framework for reform in the North will be significantly modified as
a result. The Bank's involvement has served to draw in broader constituencies and helped public
authorities recognize the need for broad stakeholder involvement and collaboration to carry out the kind of
changes that are expected as the Northern economy moves towards a more liberal environment.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit     NPV=US$239 million; ERR = %  (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
The rationale of the project is based on the gains that federal and local authorities, as well as migrant
households will make as a consequence of municipal downsizing, reduced public subsidies and a better
quality of life for migrants from the North, as well as remaining Northern dwellers.
The main economic benefits of the project will be generated by downsizing of the three participating
municipalities and reductions in related public expenditures, as well by improved living standards for
out-migrants and the remaining population.   Downsizing includes: (a) a reduced population in the
communities, primarily of non-working groups; and (b) municipal restructuring, including: (i) reduction
and concentration of housing stock; and (ii) efficiency enhancements in the provision of municipal services.
As a result of out-migration, demand for targeted federal transfers is expected to decrease. With a lower
population and improvements in the local fiscal situation, arrears in benefit payments are expected to
decrease and public services improve. Out-migrants are expected to benefit from more regular benefit
payments and lower costs of living in recipient regions. Moreover, initiatives under the new federal
regional policy will reduce expenditures generated by Northern shipments, subsidies and payments to
Northern households; as well as reduce labor and social costs to Northern enterprises.
For the purposes of the analysis, quantifiable benefits have been drawn from the lower costs of managing a
smaller and better located housing stock; lower direct and indirect Northern payments to households; and
benefits accruing to out-migrants.
Other significant benefits of the project have not been quantified:
*   In local restructuring, changes in municipal management practices - institutional reforms in
housing and utilities management; gradual increases in cost recovery for housing and utilities;
better targeting of social subsidies; better management practices - are all expected to have
favorable effects on local revenues and expenditures. In turn, these should feed back into lower
demand on federal budget transfers.
*   Initiatives at the federal level under the Government's economic reform program will also have
important positive effects that are not included in the calculations below. These relate mainly to
the reduction and elimination of Northern privileges and Northern benefit packages, which will
lower production costs to industry and remove residual attractions to Northern in-migration.
- 17-



*   A more stable and manageable population base will contribute to a normal social and economic
environment and reduce pressures on the fragile Northern environment.
Some potentially adverse effects of large-scale migration are not recognized in this relatively small project.
In particular, it is possible that large out-migration flows, especially if they become concentrated on a. few
recipient areas, will place significant pressures on public services in such areas. This, of course, is unl ikely
to show up in this project. Likewise, the indirect nature of some benefits may have adverse effects o01 the
behavior of local managers. Many of the fiscal benefits at the municipal level will emerge only as lower
budget deficits and reductions in non-payment of benefits. The non-monetary nature of these gains may
reduce the incentives of local administrations to undertake restructuring. To counteract this, the projeci will
link restructure actions to disbursement of Migration Assistance Fund and introduce predictability into
fiscal relationship between municipalities and regional admninistrations.
The project has an estimated net present value (NPV) of $239 million. The following two t.ibles
sumrnarize expected quantifiable annual economic benefits and costs of the project (details of cost-benefit
analysis are presented in Annex 4).
Annual economic benefits under the project, dollars
Benefits, USD per year              Total              Vorkuta             Norilsk         Susuman District
Total                    28 584 033.30        3 825 813.71       22 039 540.91        2 718 6178.68
Including:
Federal budget                         1 109 323.74         132 338.58          11 873.04           965 112.12
Extra-budgetary funds                   359 067.85          58 729.85           197 561.17          102 775 83
Regional and local budgets            10 213 528.09        2 520 549.77        5 959 772.15        1 733 20)6.17
Reduction on overdue payables a/       6 297 325.14        1491 714.45         4 594 881.21         210 72 ) 48
Quasi-budget expenditures              5 379 387.55                            5 379 387.55
Increase in well-being                 5 225 400.93        - 377 518.94        5 896 065.80        - 293 1--5.93
a/ Due to lack of sufficiently disaggregated data this line includes savings on reduction in overdue payables for all levd ls of
budget, as well as for quasi-budget expenditures.
- 18-



Cost of the project (PV - 1999, dollars)
Costs                   Total            Vorkuta           Norilsk          Susuman
District
Total                53 934 385.29     10 349 893.88    31 820 735.09     11 763 756.33
Federal budget a!              48 069 949.88
Regional and local budgets      5 864 435.41      735 903.9        2 978 765.16       230 769.23
co-financing
a/ Includes repayment of the WB loan
As the following table demonstrates, under assumptions used for the cost-benefit analysis, the quantified
economic benefits result in a significant net present value of the project, and a rather short,
three-to-four-year period of recouping costs.
NPV and Pay-back period of the project
Total           Vorkuta           Norilsk          Susuman
District
Net present value      238 992 519,27    27 908 243,27    188 574 674,03     22 509 601,97
dollars
Payback period, years        3.07              4.31              2.64              4.81
The main risk for the project is insufficient participation rate.  If more than 25 percent of targeted
population does not take part in the project, the project cost may be recovered only in over a five year
period. The results of the social assessment indicated that this risk is small.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 118.6 million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
If overdue payables regularly incurred by overextended budgets and changes in well-being of out-migrants
are excluded, the cost-benefit analysis takes account only of direct budget savings (on a cash basis)
triggered by a reduction in transfers to households and by the demolition of housing and infrastructure.
Such calculation demonstrate only the direct fiscal impact. The potential direct savings support the
possibility to recover project costs in five years (see details in Annex 5).
The following two tables summarize results of the financial analysis.
- 19-



Annual Enlarged Budget Savings Generated in Participating Sites
Savings, USD per year            Total             Vorkuta            Norilsk        Susuman District
Total                        17 061 307.23      2 711 618.21       11 548 593.90       2 801 095.13
Federal budget                1 109 323.74       132 338.58          11 873.04          965 112.12
Extra-budgetary funds         359 067.85          58 729.85         197 561.17          102 776.83
Regional and local budgets   10 213 528.09      2 520 549.77       5 959 772.15        1 733 206.17
Quasi-budget expenditures    5 379 387.55                          5 379 387.55
NPV and Payback Period of the Project
Total            Vorkuta             Norilsk        Susuman District
Netpresent value       118 597 684.17     16 766 288.21      83 665 203.91       18 166 192.06
dollars
Payback period, years        4.82               6.04               4.38                5.54
3. Technical:
Migration assistance:  A  certificate program  is used instead of a cash benefit.  This will protect
beneficiaries against the considerable risk of fraud in the undeveloped and institutionally weak real e:,tate
market and provide reasonable assurances that the benefit will be used for the intended purpose. The
amount of the assistance aims at balancing affordability with adequacy. The subsidy is based on a forraula
which takes into account existing trends in real estate prices in recipient regions and includes indexa-ion.
Details on the calculation are included in Annex 2.
Eligible groups were selected through extensive consultations in the project sites to take into account 1:cal
priorities and accepted privileged groups. Priority goes to vulnerable groups and non-working populations.
Local restructuring: Local restructuring aims at drawing the maximum benefit of the changing natianal
policy and out-migration.  The establishment of predictable and transparent fiscal relations between
regional and local authorities is crucial in providing the kind of stability to local budgeting and financial
management that will make better general and financial management practices meaningfuil to local
authorities. Multi-year agreements to this effect have already been signed between Vorkuta and Komi
Republic and between Susuman District and Magadan Oblast.  Facilities consolidation is an essential
strategy to draw the potential efficiencies of downsizing and urban concentration. To maximize tiese
effects, enhance revenue mobilization and reduce expenditures, it will be coupled with the introduction of
competitive contractual award of service provision and maintenance in municipalities - especially in
housing and energy provision; with gradual increase in cost recovery in housing and utilities; and vith
improvements in budget management at local levels.
- 20 -



The federal component provides the necessary support to realize the Government's Northern policy by
focusing on the development of an appropriate legislative and regulatory framework; and at the same time
provide the means to monitor and adapt policy to changing Northern circumstances.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Institutional capacity for policy change is a key element of the project. In order for the reforms to take
place it is essential for the federal government to enact policy changes. This requires commitment both
from the Government and the Parliament. It will be up to key stakeholders in the Government to educate
the members of the Duma and the Federation Council about the economic costs of the current policies and
the need for changes. This process had begun, but as most of the Duma deputies are new following the
December 1999 elections, much of the work already done in this area will need to be repeated. Throagh
several changes in top leaders of the Government, the commitment to the policy changes and restructuring
of the North has remained unchanged.
At the regional and local level, there is also a need to implement difficult policy changes. Again, it will be
important for the local administrations to work together with other stakeholders to bring about these
changes. This includes the major employers, major unions and the local parliaments/city councils. It is
understood by all sides that enactment of the necessary changes will be difficult.
4.2 Project management:
The Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring has been responsible for the implementation of three
Bank-financed loans to Russia and has recently been given the responsibility by the Government for three
new projects including this one, the Forestry Project and the Regional Fiscal Project. The Bank has
reviewed the organizational structure of the FER and its capacity to implement these projects, as well as,
the financial management system and procurement management of the FER. The Bank has been satisfied
by the work of the FER in the management of projects on behalf of the Government.
Under this project, the FER will report to the Inter-Ministerial Working Group responsible for project
implementation. This oversight is important in order for the Government to ensure that the FER is acting
on behalf of the Government and the project is being implemented according to the plan agreed with the
Government. The FER has a Board of Directors made up of representatives from key ministries and
agencies to oversee the general work of the FER.
The main concern of the Bank is the lack of experience of local administrations and the LPIUs to undertake
this type of migration assistance. The administrations undertook migration assistance programs in the past,
but they were primarily based on construction of housing rather than a housing certificate. Further, in
earlier programs, the number of households assisted each year was much fewer than what is anticipated
under this project. For these reasons, much consideration has been given to the LPIU structure, staffing,
training and Operations Manual. The LPIU structure is to build on the experience that exists in the
participating regions and strengthen it with additional staff and specialized staff in legal issues, housing
contracts and other areas. In addition, the PIU will be responsible for training LPIU staff both initially and
on an on-going basis. The Operations Manual designed for the LPIUs is very detailed and explains all the
procedures for assisting the potential migrants. LPIU performance will be monitored by the PIU, the
Coordination/Supervisory Councils and Bank missions.
- 21 -



4.3 Procurement issues:
The procurement aspects of this project are limited, as most Loan funds are to be disbursed as
reimbursement to the Federal Treasury for the payment of migration assistance allowances. There will be a
few minor purchases of office equipment, printed literature and migration certificates, and material and
supplies to support operations of Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring (FER), the implementing agency.
The Project also envisions the procurement of a variety of consultant services, but such purchase
methodologies will not be complicated or new to Foundation staff. The FER has implemented several )ther
Bank projects over a period of six years, and has a fully developed Operations Manual, trained staff and
automated procurement administration and records keeping system to support their work. The Bmnk's
Country Procurement Assessment Report is in its final stages of completion, and may be finished by the
time Project negotiations are expected to take place. A capacity assessment of the Foundation has
concluded it has the necessary expertise to administer the Project and perform procurement functio is in
ways which meet Bank requirements. Procurement arrangements for the project are set forth in Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Country Financial Management Capacity: The financial management capacity within the Ru.isian
Federation is currently the subject of a Country Financial Accountability Assessment which wi:l be
prepared in FY2001. Primarily because of other implementation considerations, any weaknesses that may
exist in the financial management capacity in Russia have been mitigated for this project, by the use of an
existing PIU for project implementation. As detailed in the Project design and flow of funds descriptions,
this Project utilizes the resources of Treasury to act as a financial intermediary between IBRD and
Sberbank. The review of Treasury with respect to reporting and auditing, required additional steps and
reconciliations to be undertaken by FER, so as to ensure adequate reporting, control and audit.
The use of this experienced PIU is especially important with respect to financial management issues and
risks, drawing on its experience on successfully implementing other projects. The auditors, whc are
selected from the list of auditors eligible to conduct Bank audits, have issued unqualified opinions each year
and have raised no material weaknesses or concerns regarding the operations and internal controls. The
PIU is in process of strengthening its financial management capacity through overall integration and
computerization of accounting systems.
PIU Financial Management Capacity: The initial financial management assessment of FER was
conducted by the Bank in August 1999. It was concluded that FER is a well organized PIU with a clearly
defined organizational structure and qualified staff. It should also be noted that it was proposed that FER
will become the project implementation unit for three new IBRD loans with minimal increases in sta:-fing
with its core finance functions. This is an ambitious aim and only can be achieved if processes and
information technology are integrated and automated. In addition to the internal challenges, signif cant
capacity building issues within regional project implementation groups must be undertaken by FER.
Recently, a update to the Financial Management Capacity Assessment was undertaken to follow u;) on
agreements reached in August 1999 and assess the current status of FER development in financial
management and overall project implementation. The details of this assessment follow in Annex 6, with a
summary conclusion that the Project meets Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
FER proposes to implement the new projects with minimal growth in central support functions of finance
and disbursement. The plan is ambitious and is dependent on significant efficiency and rationalizaticn of
system software and internal control procedures. Current review of FER's financial management system
showed substantial progress in integration of accounting systems and accordingly, there is every reascn to
- 22 -



believe that by the end of year 2001, FER will have very reliable and integrated FM system.
Banking Arrangements: Following the financial crisis of August 1998, the Government of Russia reduced
the list of banks eligible to hold IBRD Special Accounts. The list of banks was limited to
Government-owned commercial banks such as Sberbank (Sberegatel'ny Bank), Vneshtorgbank and
Vnesheconombank. In this project substantial reliance is placed on operations of Sberbank. A separate
schedule in the Loan Agreement describes the flow of funds between Treasury and Sberbank. Sberbank's
role in the project is also described in Annexes 12 and 14. The Government and IBRD continue to monitor
the performance of the banking sector.
The mechanism for the disbursement of funds through the Treasury and Sberbank was designed on the
basis of an existing arrangement used for housing certificates under a Government-financed program for
the relocation of military officers following service. The PIU and the project team have reviewed the
documents used for the military program and have held discussions with Treasury and Sberbank officials
regarding the implementation of the program and the feasibility of using a similar scheme for the
implementation of this project. The PIU also made site visits to three cities to review their experience in
working with the certificates and the payment mechanisms. The visits were made to Tula, St. Petersburg
and Yaroslavl and confirmed that the system was working without major problems.
It was assessed that the system was operational and all regional branches of Treasury and Sberbank were
aware of the previous procedures and it had been proven operational with minor modifications made during
implementation. On this basis it was agreed that the same system would be used for the implementation of
this project, with a few minor modifications. One modification is the transfer of all original documents
back to the PIU for review, records and auditing. This will strengthen the internal control system as it will
allow a post-review of all contracts paid, which will also be entered into a database for monitoring and
evaluation purposes. The military scheme also allowed the purchase of unfinished housing, which the
project will not for reasons outlined above. This stipulation also requires minor modifications to the
procedures. The review of the previous procedures and the decision to use the existing system mitigates the
operational risks for the payment of the certificates.
5. Environmental:                   Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
During the PCD review this project was rated a Category C. At that time it was expected that demolition
activities would not take place under the project. However, local administrations made significant progress
in the development of their local restructuring plans. As a result the environmental assessment category
was reviewed again and the project was rated a Category B. Dilapidated housing and social facilities (i.e.
schools) are expected to be consolidated and demolished under the project. These activities will be financed
with local funds and carried out under the supervision of the local administrations. The project will not
deal with any industrial sites.
During project preparation, studies were carried out on the consolidation of housing and infrastructure in
the participating regions. These studies have served as the basis of the Environmental Management Plan
(EMP) developed for the project. Terms of reference for the demolition of buildings were prepared to
ensure that there are no adverse environmental effects from the demolition activities. The loan will finance
technical assistance to ensure that the EMP is followed. Local administrations and the local environmental
protection offices will also supervise the work.
- 23 -



An EMP has been developed for the demolition work to be done under this project. The plans i1clude
measures to dispose of hazardous materials and rehabilitation of sites following demolition.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The main features of the EMP are to ensure that any hazardous materials are disposed of in the correct
manner. In Norilsk, noise levels will also need to be monitored but this is not an issue in the other sites as
they are remote.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: November 2000
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The consultants worked directly with the local administrations during the development of their reports and
recommendations. The EMP was discussed with the local Coordination Councils, which represent all
major stakeholders. These consultations were concluded prior to negotiations.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The project includes two main mechanisms to monitor compliance with the EMP and evaluate the impact
on the environment. The first is the local department of environmental protection in each municipality.
They will have first-line responsibility to monitor the demolition and the results. In addition, the loan will
finance an external consultant to review the implementation and compliance with the EMP.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The social development objectives of the project are clear and straightforward: to enable people w-io are
otherwise stuck in Arctic areas, and increasingly vulnerable to deteriorating economic and social
conditions, to move to other locations in Russia, if they choose. The major social issues involved in
achieving the objectives, in addition to the standard risks associated with relocation, are the extent to which
migration is voluntary, the inclusive or exclusive nature of the selection process, the soundness of targeting,
the likelihood of generating a backlash among those left behind or in destination areas, the appropriateness
and adequacy of support provided, and the impact in both donor and recipient areas as well as the i mpact
on those who move.
Given the historical and geographical complexities, the potential for controversy, the magnitude of the task
and, despite considerable experience, the limited understanding of parameters of the problem, project
preparation has included much social analysis. Social Assessment (SA) for the project was iterative and
cumulative. Several major studies were undertaken before and during project preparation, the most recent
of which was a survey of almost 2,100 households in the three project sites (Annex 11 provides a summary
of the work). Each element of the SA generated new data and understandings of project issues and raised
others that were explored further in subsequent studies or during discussions with various stakeholders.
Migration is Voluntary. Settlements in the North have become non-viable, or less viable, due to ecoaomic
restructuring. The project includes a small non-viable settlement to be closed, and some other settlements
to be downsized. The out-migration program supported by the project is strictly voluntary. The extensive
surveys conducted during project preparation, and the public awareness campaigns to be supported (luring
- 24 -



implementation, provide a basis to ensure that residents of participating municipalities are making an
informed choice.
Each settlement has different issues. First, residents of the closing settlement (Promyshlenny) expect to be
moved and are ready to go. This was confirmed by the household survey, in which 95 percent of the
respondents said they want to move, and confirmed by a series of building-by-building discussions. All
residents will be eligible. Some five percent indicated that they do not wish to move for various reasons.
They would be accommodated by the program to use their subsidy to purchase housing in a nearby viable
settlement or the major city. This would allow them to keep existing employment and be closer to social
services. If any residents do not with to move from the settlement, provisions will be made for them to stay
in their current location (see Section 7 - Safeguard Policies). Second, most of the residents of settlements
in Susuman district that will remain as downsized settlements are also ready to move. They will be eligible
to move out of the North or to the district center. Third, members of target groups in the settlements to
remain (Vorkuta, Norilsk and Susuman) will be involved in the project on a voluntary basis. All members
of the target groups will be eligible, but only those who volunteer will participate. The migration scheme
sets no constraints on the choice of recipient area by the participants.
Participation is Inclusive. As indicated above, settlement-level eligibility will include all registered
residents of the target settlements. Category-based eligibility includes all members of households that
contain eligible people. In addition, family members who also live in the city but in different apartments
will also be included, such as children of pensioners and their families, to ensure continuity in family
relations and family support mechanisms. Eligibility will not be affected by nationality or citizenship.
Some eligible people came from currently independent states, such as Ukraine, and have taken citizenship
in the new states. This new citizenship status does not affect eligibility for transportation or housing
benefits under the project, but the housing certificates will only be valid in Russia and transportation will
be provided within the Russian Federation. Non-Russian beneficiaries can eventually sell or rent the
housing obtained through the project if they decide to return to another country. Consequently, the project
will promote social inclusion on the level of family, settlement and nationality.
Targeting is Sound. Target populations in the project are either geographically based, residents of specific
settlements, or based on social category. The categories are standard, socially-acceptable ones that are
commonly associated with specific benefits. They include those who are both statistically and generally
viewed to be the poorest and most vulnerable, individually and collectively. The elderly, disabled and large
families, especially single-parent large families, are those who are most adversely affected by miserable
environments, increasing cost of living in the North, the decline in services and the prospects of further
decline. Each region has identified specific eligible categories to include in the program, corresponding to
the composition of the local population and resources available. In all cases, however, the groups target the
most vulnerable populations.
Backlashes are not Likely. Category-based eligibility ultimately excludes people who may want to
participate, which could lead to conflict or social tension in Northem settlements if categories are
ambiguous or controversial or if implementation appears to be arbitrary. Steps have been taken to ensure
that such a backlash does not develop. First, eligibility categories in the project are clearly defined and
membership is unequivocal. Second, to dispel any questions about eligibility, details about the program
will be disseminated widely throughout the population before and during implementation. Third, to ensure
that the selection process is transparent, eligibility lists will also be made public. Given the project
approach and the fact that people are already familiar with the experience of relocation programs that are
selective, the project is not expected to generate suspicions or examples of inequities that would promote
opposition among the non-beneficiaries. Similarly, there should be no backlash in recipient areas.
- 25 -



Migrants will choose their destinations, thus they are expected to be dispersed widely in the southern areas,
rather than concentrated. Their presence will pose no threat to their new neighbors in terms of press re on
social services or competition for jobs or other resources. Consequently, it is unlikely that there will te any
backlash in the migration destinations.
Interventions are Appropriate, especially for the Vulnerable. The project is appropriate for reside its of
the North, given their real needs and growing insecurity, as well as their legitimate expectations, bas -d on
the promises made earlier to induce voluntary migration to the North. People want to move--75 percont of
household survey respondents want to migrate from the North; but they are pessimistic about their
opportunities--only 20 percent of those who want to move are confident that they will be able to do so on
their own. People are familiar with existing migration assistance programs and are uniformly dissatisfied
with them. Respondents in the survey identified a broad range of problems with current programs, the most
common of which were that they offer no financial support or choice of destination and waiting lists are far
too long.  The survey also confirmed that project components meet the most frequently expressed
needs--financial help (primarily for housing), transportation and shipment of effects. Housing is the
overwhelming issue in migration, one which affects both the selection of destination and the decision to
move. When asked to indicate the importance of many factors related to where they would like to migrate,
the top two factors were climate and physical environment, followed by medical services, the ability to
select housing, the type of settlement (city, town, village) and the quality of housing. The project will
provide eligible families the opportunity to migrate to milder climates to locations they select and enable
them to choose their own housing, as well. In short, the project responds clearly to the needs of -arget
groups. Moreover, the information component will give beneficiaries and others the information they feel
they need to make reasonable decisions
Information and support needs will vary, of course. It is expected that many participants will f)llow
typical chain migration patterns, choosing locations where they have relatives or friends from the North.
Many have already developed the social networks that will facilitate the move. This is confirmed in the
survey, in which 68 percent of those who want to move have already decided where to go, and almost half
of those who want to migrate are in contact with relatives or friends in the destination area at least oace a
month. Such contact is even more frequent among the respondents who really expect to migrate. Thus
many potential beneficiaries who have networks of family or friends to help them decide where to move and
locate housing will be able to take advantage of the project very quickly. Those without established
networks will not be left behind, however. Eligible participants without strong links to the mainland will be
able to take advantage of three assistance mechanisms that are being developed and piloted in this co -text.
The first mechanism is an information bank that will be easily accessible by potential beneficiaries either
directly or indirectly, with assistance. The data bank will include up-to-date information about potmntial
destination sites, covering the dimensions that survey respondents indicated as the most important criteria
they would use to choose a destination location and housing.  This service will be available to
non-beneficiaries, as well. Second, the project will develop relationships with real estate agents in principal
locations who will assist beneficiaries in selecting and purchasing housing. Third, the project will also
attempt to establish contacts with previous residents of the project target areas to promote exchanges with
potential beneficiaries to enable them to fill in information gaps and, if appropriate and desired, to act as
surrogates in the information-gathering process.
Migration Impact will be Positive. The project will have impact in three areas. First, in the departure
areas the major impact will be to free housing thereby enabling local administrations to conso idate
physical and social infrastructure and reduce public expenditures. Second, in destination areas, the impact
of the migration is expected to be neutral or minimal in terms of physical and social infrastructure.
- 26 -



Third, on the participants themselves, the impact will be positive. The project will enable about 25,000
people to realize their dream to move from harsh, desolate places back to more mainstream locations with
better climates, healthier environments, better access to social services and better access to educational and
cultural opportunities. Most beneficiaries will also be able to cultivate home gardens in the new locations,
a tradition which has cultural and aesthetic value, in addition to its contributions to family nutrition and
welfare. Meanwhile, in their new locations, participants in the program will preserve eligibility for the
same types of social benefits to which they are entitled in the North. Pensions will be adjusted slightly, but
they will still remain approximately 50 percent higher than local pensions due to the Northern benefits that
are transferred to the new location.
Recent migrants surveyed during project preparation experienced some difficulty in accessing services and
getting adjusted personally in their new locations. In addition to personal networks of friends and relatives,
beneficiaries of the project will be able to minimize the disruption of the transfer using the project
information service to help them establish contacts with local administrative and service structures.
Summary. The target groups are appropriate for the project and the project is appropriate for their needs.
Nonetheless, the project is a pragmatic program, not a panacea.  Migration will take people to more
favorable climates and may lead to more opportunities for many, but movement to the mainland cannot
address all of the issues that confront the vulnerable. Potential migrants expect to benefit from the
program, but the experience of their relatives and forner friends and neighbors conditions their
expectations. For example, 47 percent of survey respondents said they expected their lives to improve
through migration. That number is higher than 10 percent who expected improvements by remaining in the
North, but clearly indicates that people are not unrealistically optimistic. The program will assist target
groups in a way that balances dreams with the practical demands of affordability and appropriateness
under changing  circumstances.   The project will address the needs of migrants simply  and
straightforwardly, overcoming many of the weaknesses of previous programs. Perhaps most importantly, it
will provide benefits in a new, non-paternalistic way that encourages independence, allowing beneficiaries
to make their own decisions regarding location, housing and the very composition of the household migrant
unit. This process and its results will be monitored systematically to assess the strengths and weaknesses
of the program, to ascertain the extent to which beneficiaries feel that their concerns and needs are met; and
to identify and address unforeseen issues in a timely and effective manner.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project intends to address the transitional issue of population overhang and assist people who are
willing but unable for economic reasons to leave the North. Thus, primary beneficiaries are the households
that are eligible to participate in the out-migration assistance program. Primary beneficiaries include all
residents of the unviable settlement that is to be shut down and most residents of the settlements where
public sector services will be taken over by private companies. Primary beneficiaries in the other
settlements are members of specific target groups that have been selected by the local administrations, in
consultation with the Bank, during project preparation (see Section C3). During the sector study stage,
groups most affected by economic restructuring were identified, including primarily economically inactive
people (pensioners, unemployed, disabled), thus members of these groups were surveyed in four regions of
the Far North. The survey provided insights into the migration potential among these groups: why they do
not migrate despite their desire to do so; and what type of assistance they need to leave. Conclusions of the
survey influenced initial program design. Subsequent missions interacted directly with key stakeholders
(local authorities and beneficiaries), informed by survey findings and the results of focus groups conducted
in all pilot settlements. The project team will be further involving potential beneficiaries based on the
approaches briefly described below.
- 27 -



Participation Approaches:
Inhabitants of non-viable settlements will be the targets of an advance information campaign designg d to
inform  all inhabitants about proposed program  benefits, requirements for participation, suiport
mechanisms, information sources for support, etc. (CON/IS). The social assessment survey and focus
group discussions were conducted during the project preparation stage in order to ascertain the prog-ram
design priorities of potential migrants, their needs for assistance and realistic estimates of the time they
would need to make informed decisions and migrate (CON/COL). Participatory planning workshop, and
meetings initiated during project preparation will be held regularly during implementation to seek
agreements on the time frame for moving; to resolve any issues that might delay program implementati )n or
create problems for migrants; to determine the best ways to assist households in complicated cases; alid to
establish links for subsequent monitoring of migrants (COL). During the project pre-appraisal stage,
affected communities selected their own representatives to serve on local Coordination/Supervisory Co ancil
and to consult regularly with the local implementation agency to ensure that they participate directly in
decision making and they have a mechanism to raise and resolve issues that arise during implementation.
Other target groups will be involved in similar participation mechanisms, although many wi 1 be
represented by existing organizations that represent their interests, such as trade unions and pensioner and
veterans associations. Members of these groups were also included in the social assessment survey on a
sampled basis and have participated in workshops and meetings that will also continue throughout
implementation. Members of these groups are scattered throughout target communities, thus informnation
campaigns will incorporate a mixture of approaches to ensure that all potential beneficiaries are informed
about the program and have access to the support they need. Due to the number of beneficiaries and their
more scattered location, there will be more than one participatory workshop conducted. Target group5 will
be encouraged to form committees to articulate their interests to local government and implementation
authorities to ensure quality control and collaborative decision-making (COL/IS/CON).
Remaining population of selected settlements. Non-participants in target settlements will also be affected
by the project, both directly and indirectly. Focus group discussions and other consultation mechardsms
were employed to ascertain how would they perceive the program and their non-eligibility as well as to
estimate the possible indirect impact of the project on their economic or social situation. To e:lsure
transparency, the entire population will be informed regularly about project procedures and requirenr ents,
achievements and any changes in eligibility parameters. Local authorities and implementing agencies will
disseminate information through various media, including newspapers, publications, radio anc TV
announcements and information leaflets, to ensure that everyone is reached (COL/IS). The general public
will also be included in ongoing monitoring efforts and the social impact survey to be undertaken at the
conclusion of the project (CON).
Supervisory boards were established during preparation in all participating communities. They will
continue to function throughout the life of the project and play an active role in participatory monitoring
and evaluation. These boards are comprised of key stakeholders and representatives of the population,
including community leaders, representatives of population groups such as the veterans association, budget
sector staff and labor unions. The purpose of these boards is to not only to engage beneficiaries,
settlements, local administrations implementing agencies and the government in active dialogue during the
preparation stage, but also to make consensual decisions on all significant project-related matters (CO L).
The project will also establish mechanisms to secure feedback from the population during implementation.
Specifically, transparent and public processes will be established to handle complaints and problems
experienced by migrants during project implementation. Local authorities -will be trained to handle these
- 28 -



issues and ensure their satisfactory resolution.
Following migration, tracer studies will be undertaken to assess the situation of the migrants in their new
location. This is important to assess the program and understand any drawbacks when considering possible
follow-up programs.
At the federal level and regional level, government agencies (Ministry of Economic Development and
Trade, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Regional Policy, Ministry of Labor and Social Development,
Ministry of Fuel and Energy, State Committee for Construction, State Committee for Statistics), Federal
Assembly, and regional governments of selected regions, have been consulted on all major topics. It has
been an extended process of consultations, mainly through workshops, regular meetings, establishment of
technical and political level working groups to cooperate with the Bank, reviews of all Bank-prepared
documents, and work in task forces, has already led to a full involvement of these stakeholders in ESW,
identification of the project background/rationale/scope, initial project preparation and pre-appraisal
(IS/CON).
Local governments and municipalities (including employment services and social services departments),
legislators and core enterprises in selected settlements were consulted extensively during the preparation of
the project. These stakeholders were consulted during site visits during each mission when meeting of the
Coordination/Supervisory Councils were held. The Councils approved all decisions in project design
including the selection of eligible groups and the restructuring plans. (CON).
COL = collaboration; CON = consultation; IS = information sharing
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
A wide range of civil society organizations have been consulted through the process of project preparation,
including trade unions, pensioner and disabled organizations, as well as private and public sector
contractors and real estate enterprises and organizations. In each of the three regions, trade unions are
members of the regional Coordination/Supervisory Councils.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The migration assistance program is specifically designed to meet the social development objectives of the
project. The SA, other studies and numerous visits to the sites identified factors that are expected to be
vital to success and these were incorporated into project design. Among these are the housing and site
information system that will answer questions of prospective participants; the choice of destination, which
will enable people to move where they want to go and where they are most likely to have existing support
mechanisms; membership of migrants and their representatives on the local councils will ensure that their
priorities are not sacrificed to bureaucratic concerns; the housing component, which is important as
housing is one factor that prevents people from moving now; public information efforts that will ensure that
prospective participants are fully informed of eligibility requirements and procedures in a transparent and
timely manner, which will also serve to diffuse- the potential suspicion and dissatisfaction of ineligible
people; and various client-centered arrangements, including the hotline will enable participants to ensure
that they receive promised benefits and to obtain help to overcome problems that arise during
implementation.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The social development outcomes of the project will be realized primarily through the migration assistance
program, which will be monitored to focus on critical performance indicators that reflect the needs and
- 29 -



priorities of participants, as well as potential implementation weaknesses. A number of elements of the
project will be monitored both to track implementation progress and outcomes and to learn lessons that can
be applied immediately or in future programs.  Such factors as the following will be monitored
systematically: the utility and effectiveness of public information programs; the accuracy and value )f the
information system; the response rates of eligible people; unanticipated specific needs of participan:s; the
time required for processing applications and providing different benefits; the number and types of
complaints and responses; the content and disposition of Hotline inquiries and complaints; transport time;
client satisfaction with the service of the migration assistance offices; problems in recipient areas; attitudes
of ineligible people who remain in the North; and impact on those who move. Various monitoring
mechanisms will be used, varying from standard project records to exit interviews and post-migration
surveys.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
PolIcy  f   :,L,L, ,:.,.,.:., fESCE;       Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
As the Environmental Review rated the project as a Category B due to demolition of buildings to take
place, an Environmental Management Plan was prepared and approved according to Bank guidelines The
participating municipalities will be responsible for the demolition works and these will be done according to
the EMP. The Implementation Agreements, to be signed between the federal government ar d the
participating municipalities, includes provisions that they agree to implement the EMP. The municipalities
will work in conjunction with the local environmental protection committees and the sanitary and
epidemiological service to ensure compliance with environmental regulations for the disposal cf any
hazardous materials.
The project will help people relocate, but OD 4.30 Involuntary Resettlement does not apply because the
need for migration and relocation is not triggered by any project activities and the migration supported by
the project is voluntary. Migration opportunities offered by the project serve to mitigate the impact of
industrial restructuring, which has left participating Northern settlements completely or partially
non-viable. In essence, the project provides target groups who currently reside in the partici ating
settlements with the opportunity to return to their original home areas or another place of choice, if they
desire. The intensive consultation that characterized project preparation will be continued throtghout
implementation and mechanisms have been established to ensure the participation of beneficiaries in
decision making, as well as to provide them with the information they need, and a process for grievances to
be properly addressed.
Eligible households who choose to participate in the migration assistance program will select their
- 30 -



destination site and residence. They will also have the option to increase the household size to include
additional relatives (either living with them or in the city but a different apartment) or leave part of the
household behind. Residents of Vorkuta, Norilsk and Susuman whose eligibility to participate in the
program is based on category, such as pensioners, will choose whether or not to participate. Residents of
the downsizing settlements in Susuman District will have three options: to remain in the settlement; to
migrate to Central Russia; or to move to Susuman or another viable settlement in the North.
Promyshlenny, a non-viable settlement of dilapidated housing , surrounded by closed coal mines, will be
closed. Residents of the settlement will have two options: to migrate to Central Russia (95% of
households have indicated this preference); or to move to Vorkuta city or a nearby viable settlement, all of
which are closer to employment opportunities and offer better housing, services and transportation, as well
as urban amenities. During negotiations it was confirmed that all residents would be given choices to go
where they want as part of the regular program. It was also confirmed that any residents who did not wish
to move at all would be allowed to stay in their current residence indefinitely and would be provided with
the minimum necessary services to be able to do so. This has been the practice of the administration in
other local settlements that have been closed. This course of action was specifically confirmed in a letter
from the Mayor of Vorkuta during negotiations and was further confirmed by the Vice President of Komi
Republic.  In all cases, the potential participants will be given the information they need to make an
informed choice and, if they decide to move, to make a reasonable selection of the destination site, using
their own set of priorities.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is expected to test replicable and affordable models for addressing issues of economic
transformation at the local level. For these models to be replicable, the following elements are critical:
* the models are affordable: i.e. the savings generated by consolidation and economic restructuring at
the local level allow the costs of the out-migration schemes to be recovered;
o the models are implementable; i.e. reasonable in terms of the capacity available at local levels; and
* distortive incentives for in-migration are removed in order to prevent further in-migration to the
North.
Regarding the first point, savings generated by the local consolidation actions (consolidation of housing
units, reduced expenditures on utilities and maintenance) are estimated to generate sufficient resources to
recoup the costs of the migration scheme. On the second point, careful analysis is undertaken in order to
assign the local implementation groups those specific functions that they would be able to perform,
additional consultancies and training envisioned. With regard to the third point, the Federal Government
has been reducing transfers and subsidies to the North. Likewise, the communities themselves will be
introducing economic reforms as part of their local restructuring plans, which will reduce the artificial
attraction of the North to individuals and households that can make a living under circumstances of a
normally operating economy, i.e. one operating according to market-based principles. Such reforms will
include in particular the gradual introduction of cost-pricing in municipal services.
- 31 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Consolidation will result in savings to the  M        Restructuring plans were designed b ised on
local budget                                          where savings could be achieved.
Savings are retained at local level         M         Agreements between the municipal governments
and the regional governments are in )lace for the
savings to be retained for two - three years.
Issues identified during implementation     M         Exit interviews and tracer studies wi l provide
are adjusted.                                         information on drawbacks of the program.
Supervision by Bank, Government and PIU will
ensure that appropriate program adjustments are
made.
From Components to Outputs
The migration subsidy identified is         S         1. Survey of housing and transportation costs
adequate to secure out-migration                      has been conducted.
2. Information on program successes will be
publicized to overcome skepticism
Banking network supporting the project      M         1. Use of a treasury account and state-owned
implementation continues to operate                   bank where the Government will guarantee
payments.
2. Use of bank with experience in financing
similar program.
Inflation does not depreciate the value of  M         1. Subsidy amount will be calculated in dollars
the assistance                                        which should off-set any possible depreciation
of the ruble
2. Contingencies have been included in project
budget to cover inflation.
Municipalities provide funds for            S         1. Verification of financing in by line item in
transportation as agreed                              annual local budgets
2. Binding agreement; analysis of budget
prospects/tax base.
3. Audit of actual contributions.
There is sufficient information for the     M         Information system will provide infolmation on
migrants to choose the optimal place to go            housing and other factors important to migrants.
- 32 -



Sufficient institutional capacity at local      S         Training program will be developed during prior
level to implement the program                            to effectiveness.
Sufficient cooperation with local              M          Willingness to participate in project was a
authorities                                               selection criteria for regions
Regional and local authorities are              H          1. Local Restructuring plans have been adopted
implementing their restructuring plans                    by each participating locality.
2. A key cost recovery target must be met prior
to the Government financing migration for the
conditional categories of migrants and this is
included in the loan agreement.
3. Technical assistance is included in the project
to help the municipalities in the implementation
of the plans.
4. Annual monitoring of the implementation of
the plans and the results will be performed and
included in project reporting.
No delays in project implementation             H         Close supervision from the Bank, regional
authorities, Governnent stakeholders according
to the plan agreed during the project
preparation. However, there will be delays due
to the "migration season" as people will not be
able to move during winter months
Overall Risk Rating                             S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Possible Controversial             Risk                    Minimization Measure
Aspect/Risk                  Rating
Residents in project sites are          S          (i) There is a (national) safety net mechanism
unhappy about or unable to pay                     (burden limit) in place to assist poor families; (ii)
increases in fees for utilities and                under the project, if the number of households
communal services                                  exceeding the burden limit reaches a certain level,
cost recovery targets will be revised downward;
(iii) a social monitoring mechanism will be
introduced to monitor on a continuous basis the
impact of increased charges on households in the
project areas. To seek support for the cost
recovery, information will be provided about the
upgrade of services and the reasons for residents
to bear a higher share of actual costs.
- 33 -



Project funds are not used for          N          The financial management system, described in
migration assistance.                              para. 4.4, has been designed to ensure that nioneys
are only used for migration assistance.
Eligibility under the project is        M          Previous eligibility was based on length of stay;
different from current                             project eligibility is based on need in light o0'
perceptions of eligibility                         restructuring. These distinctions have been
discussed with local coordination councils and
residents. Eligibility criteria and registration
procedures have been developed to create a fair,
transparent system for migrant selection. The
criteria are easily verifiable and permanent.
Further, a public awareness campaign will be
implemented to explain the selection criteria and
reasons.
Migrants unhappy about                  M          The program has been designed in a participatory
process                                            manner with potential migrants to ensure that their
concems are addressed. During implementation,
there is a feedback mechanism to address
problems that may arise. Following migration,
there will be tracer studies to find out problems
that migrants have faced following their move that
can be incorporated into the project.
Closing of a non-viable                 H          The government estimates that over 300 very
settlement                                         small settlements (each with less than 2,000
people) are no longer viable with dwindling
subsidies and contracting budgets. One settlement
of this type will be included in the project. The
settlement has no economic prospects following
the closure of local mines several years ago. A
full social assessment of its residents has been
completed to assess their willingness to mov, .
About 95% of the population in the settleme -it
stated that they wished to move out of the North.
Those who do not wish to move from the area will
be accommodated under the program. A grc up of
stakeholders and residents has been established to
participate in decisions on the closure.
Closing of buildings or a               M          The project would support environmental
settlement could have adverse                      assessments and technical assistance to ensu: e
environmental affects.                             that closed buildings are shut down properly to
ensure that there is no remaining environmer tal
risk.
- 34 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   Implementation Agreements have been executed on behalf of the Borrower, represented by MOF,
MEDT and FER and each respective Participating Locality and respective Regional Project
Participant;
*   The Agency Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and FER;
*   The Government Decree on the Migration Assistance Program has been adopted by the Borrower;
*   An agreement on housing certificate processing has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and
Sberbank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Legal Covenants
*   Prior to the disbursement of funds for the Migration Assistance Allowances for each Participating
Locality, the LPIU will be established.
*   The Borrower shall (a) maintain a financial management system acceptable to the Bank, including
preparation of Project Management Reports and (b) shall have project and FER accounts audited
each fiscal year.
*   The Borrower shall (a) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to
the Bank by June 1 of each year starting in the year 2003, a report integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities perforned and by September 1 of each year starting in the
year 2003 shall review this report with the Bank and thereafter, take all measures to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the project, of the action and policies referred to in the Policy Letter and in
the Local Restructuring Plans, and the achievement of project objectives.
*   The Borrower shall ensure the carrying out of the project in accordance with the Operations
Manual.
*   During the execution of the project, the Borrower shall maintain IMWG comprising representatives
of the Borrower's agencies as agreed upon with the Bank.
*   The Borrower shall assign to FER, under the Agency Agreement, the responsibility for the overall
Project implementation.
*   The Borrower shall cause the Participating Municipalities to: (a) establish and maintain LPIUs
with staff and resources as defined in the respective Implementation Agreements and to observe
terms of reference acceptable to the Banks and (b) maintain Supervisory/Coordination Councils; (c)
cause the Participating Localities to carry out their respective activities under the project in
accordance with the Instructions to the Participating Localities.
*   The Borrower shall (a) take all appropriate actions to enable the Participating Localities to
implement their respective Local Restructuring Plans, in accordance with the timetable set forth
therein; (b) ensure that no commitments shall be made under the Migration Assistance Program, or
payments made under Migration Assistance Allowances thereunder, for any Beneficiaries defined
- 35 -



as conditional Beneficiaries for each Participating Locality until the respective Participating
Locality has established, in accordance with criteria established by the Borrower acceptable to the
Bank, that a level of cost recovery for provision of housing and communal services of 40; has
been achieved in the Participating Locality.
*   The Borrower shall carry out, and shall cause the Participating Localities and Regional l roject
Participants to carry out, the Migration Assistance Program in accordance with the Goveriment
Decree on the program.
*   The Borrower, through FER, shall complete and submit to the Bank annual progress reports, in the
format and substance satisfactory to the Bank, by March 31 of each year starting in the year
2002.
H. Readiness for Implementation
Cl 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first yeares activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
3 1. b) Not applicable.
3 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactor"
quality.
II 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[] 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
The Bank will reimburse the Borrower in USD for the expenditures made by the Federal treasury in local
currency for the migration assistance allowances.
For the purposes of reimbursing the Borrower for expenditures made for migration assistance allovwances
the Bank will use the historical exchange rate (as of the date when the migrant redeems the certificate and
the local currency amount is determined) as the basis for determining the value of the eligible expenditure
to be reimbursed for those applications where the time between the value date and the receipt of the
withdrawal application by the Bank is no greater than 120 days.
Il Wg                          ,                                                -w-FS ei
Hj te S. A. Sederlof             r urt  A. Lewis                      Julian F. Schweitzer
Team Leader                        Sector Manager                     Country Manager
- 36 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Northern Restructuring Project
Key Perfofmance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
The CAS goal is to support   Reduction in federal subsidies Legislation and regulatory    Government creates an
sustainable economic      and transfers              acts                       enabling environment for
restructuring in the North by                                                   economic growth while
(i) devising cost effective  Publicly mandated privileges  Country Economic     maintaining adequate
ways of providing assistance  in the North are removed  Memorandums             distributional considerations.
to residents of the North; (ii)
establishing an enabling  Reduction of fiscal burden on  Sector reports
environment for private sector regional, municipal and
development, including    enterprise budgets related to   Annual budget reports and
through a reduction in social  maintenance of excessive  laws on budget execution
obligations; and (iii) coping   social infrastructure catering
with the economic and social  to an excessively large and    State Committee on Statistics
effects of the downsizing of   socially vulnerable Northem   data
the current industrial    population
structure.
Transparent and predictable
budget process between
regional and local
administrations
Migration assistance schemes
are used to help people to
move from non-viable area
and harsh climactic
conditions to areas of better
opportunity
- 37 -



;Hietr5rci,       ctve             indiator             knttii|nt rin &vauation      Cr;iS tica.l AsumHos;
Project Development        Outcome I Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
The project development    Reduced expenditures are    Supervision mission reports,  Government comnitment to
objective is to test a set of  emerging in the local budgets mid-term and final evaluation implement projec- experiences
actions to assist municipalities resulting from the reduced    reports, data from local  on a broader level
to cope with the effects of  population and closure of  authorities, Goskomstat data
economic transition through:  buildings                                            Financing for a broader
(i) out-migration assistance;                                                      program will be available
(ii) strategies to draw on
potential efficiency gains from                                                    Guidelines based Dn project
a decreased population.                                                            experience adopted
Duma to enact legislation to
remove Northern privileges
Municipalities are allowed to
retain savings fromn project
activities
Monitoring analysis show
positive results ar d are used
Duma, federal ani regional
government implement
regulatory acts
Capacity at federal and local
level to implement follow-up
programs
- 38 -



Key Perfornance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Crifical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Tested scheme to assist    Quantity of applications    Project reports, supervision
migration which creates space received for participation in   mission reports, mid-term and
for restructuring and      the Migration Assistance   final evaluation reports
opportunities for budget   Program
savings
Quantity of migration
assistance allowance
certificates issued
Quantity of households that
have migrated
Improved information
mechanism is in place by
launch of migration assistance
program for use by all
inhabitants (info on housing
prices, vacancies, travel costs)
Implementation of local    Level of cost recovery for  Project reports, supervision    Consolidation will result in
restructuring plans        communal services from      mission reports, mid-term and savings to the local budget
population and change during final evaluation reports
the year                                               Savings are retained at local
level
Volume of consolidated
housing and social
infrastructure (total number of
buildings and square meters)
Monitoring and analysis of   Monitoring of economic    Project reports, supervision   Issues identified during
project implementation,    efficiency, social situation and mission reports, mid-term and implementation are adjusted.
outcomes and effects       migration program trough:   final evaluation reports
exit interviews,
tracer studies,
annual budget analysis,
ex-post social analysis,
that starts at effectiveness,
reported at mid-term
evaluation and is ongoing at
the end of the project
- 39 -



Government regulations     Analysis undertaken         Project reports, supervision
aimed at strengthening the                             mission reports, mid-term and
enabling environment are                              final evaluation reports
developed
Regulations drafted
Discussions of draft
regulatory acts with key
stakeholders
- 40 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives            Indicators           Monitoring & Evaluation       Critical Assumptions
Project Components I        Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:             (from Components to
Sub-components:             component)                                               Outputs)
1. Migration assistance     $76.23 million              Project reports, supervision    The migration subsidy
*  Advance information                                mission reports, mid-term and identified is adequate to
campaign for the                                   final evaluation reports     secure out-migration
population
*  Registration for                                                                Banking network supporting
participation in the                                                           the project implementation
migration assistance                                                            continues to operate
program
*  Selection of participants                                                       Inflation does not depreciate
and calculation of                                                              the value of the assistance
benefit in the migration
assistance program                                                              Municipalities provide funds
*  Implementation of a                                                             for transportation as agreed
migration assistance
program including legal                                                         Sufficient institutional
assistance in reviewing                                                         capacity at local level to
housing contracts                                                              implement the program
*  Effective provision of
information to                                                                  There is sufficient
inhabitants of a                                                                information for the migrants
settlement as related to                                                        to choose the preferred place
housing, jobs, travel                                                           to go
costs elsewhere
* Provision of
transportation
2. Local Restructuring Plans  $5.77 million             Project reports, supervision    Sufficient cooperation with
*  Technical assistance for                           mission reports, mid-term and local authorities
the implementation of                              final evaluation reports
Local Restructuring                                                             Regional and local authorities
Plans                                                                           are implementing their
*  Demolition of housing                                                           restructuring plans
and other facilities
- 41 -



3. Monitoring and evaluation  $1.20 million            Project reports, supervision    No delays in project
*  Monitoring of                                     mission reports, mid-term and implementation
administrative costs                              final evaluation reports
*  Monitoring of status of
migrants
*  Monitoring of housing
purchases
*  Ex post social
assessment, evaluation
of the program
effectiveness, lessons
learned and preparation
of guidelines for further
replication
*  Analysis of economic
impact
*  Dissemination of
guidelines; other
information
dissemination;
conferences, workshops
4. Federal Component       $3.34 million               Project reports, supervision
*  to assist with refinement                         mission reports, mid-term and
of draft laws and other                           final evaluation reports
regulatory documents;
*  to undertake analysis of
the evolving labor
practices in the North;
*  seminars, conferences,
on Northern
restructuring;
*  development and
implementation of the
housing information
system;
*  to draft
recommendations for
expanding government
migration assistance
based on the
summarized experience
of the project
- 42 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Northern Restructuring Project
The project development objective is to test a set of actions to assist municipalities to cope with the effects
of economic transition through: (i) out-migration assistance; (ii) measures that will allow municipalities to
realize potential economic benefits resulting from a decreased population. The Project consists of five
components: (1) Migration Assistance Component; (2) Local Restructuring Support Component; (3)
Monitoring and Evaluation Component; (4) Federal Component; (5) Project Management Component.
The project will be implemented in three regions: Vorkuta City (Komi Republic), Norilsk Industrial Area
(Krasnoyarsk Territory), and Susuman District (Magadan Region). Regions (or subjects of the Federation)
were chosen based on the following criteria, agreed between the Bank and the Government: far northern
regions to ensure that genuinely northern settlements are included; have typical northern tax and revenue
situations without special arrangements with the federal government and without being heavily dependent
on federal transfers; regional authorities have introduced innovative approaches to the resolution of
restructuring problems and are willing to participate in the proposed project. In all three regions local
enterprises are undergoing restructuring, and this has resulted in redundancies and unemployment, reduced
tax base, higher demand for social services and financial pressure on the municipal government.
Within the regions, three types of settlements were identified. The majority of all settlements in the North
fall into one of these types, and the project would cover all three types. The settlement types are (i) very
small, economically non-viable settlement; (ii) medium sized settlements that would only be economically
viable with extensive restructuring involving a large number of layoffs and out-migration; and (iii)
settlements with potentially viable enterprises that require divestiture of social responsibilities and some
downsizing of the work force. The three types of settlements makes this representative project as the
majority of the cities in the North are one of these three types.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$76.23 million
Migration Assistance Component
(i) Migration Assistance Allowances
The Government will implement a Migration Assistance Program to assist those who volunteer to leave the
North. This program will be implemented according to a Government Decree, which specifies all aspects
of the program. The main points, including eligible groups and formula for allowance determination, are
set forth below. FER will oversee administration of the program and the migration assistance allowances,
and will also act as PIU for project operations and expenditures under the Loan Agreement and a separate
Agency Agreement with MOF and MEDT. The IMWG and the FER will confirm that allowances are
granted and paid according to the Decree on the Migration Assistance Program to be issued by the
Government and Loan Agreement. Allowances will be financed by the Federal Treasury and paid through
Sberbank and will be reimbursed by the Bank according to terms and conditions specified in Annex 6 and
set forth in the Loan Agreement. The Federal Treasury and Sberbank have previously implemented such
payments for the previous Government-financed scheme for retired military officers. An agreement will be
signed between them for the implementation of this program on the basis of the previous program. The
Ministry of Finance has confirmed that the allowances are tax free to the migrants.
- 43 -



The Local Administration in the participating localities will issue migration assistance certificates to
qualifying individuals and/or families on the basis of candidate migrants completing requirements,
including:
* Obligation to relinquish housing in participating locality;
* Signed contractual agreement to remove self/family from waiting list for all other Federally funded
migration programs;
*   Signed contractual agreement to remove self/family from social benefit lists in project region (to be
re-registered in new region).
Prior to making payment against a migration assistance certificate, the migrant will have to present prcof of
new residence in a non-project and/or non-Northern region. Once applicable criteria have been rnet a
pre-determined allowance will be deposited to a special blocked special account in the relevant Sberbank
branch in the name of the migrant.
(ii) Eligible Migrants
The project will support migration assistance for two types of migrants within the project: unconditional
and conditional. All residents of the project areas who are included in unconditional categories and who
wish to participate in the project will receive a guaranteed migration support. Those who are includ,-d in
conditional categories receive migration support within remaining funds after the applications of
unconditional groups are satisfied. For the conditional category of migrants clear and explicit "cu.t-off
criteria" are established.
In Vorkuta City the unconditional category includes all permanent residents of Promyshlenny settlement; as
well as World War II veterans who worked in the North for at least 15 calendar years. The conditional
category is old-age pensioners with at least 35 calendar years of service in the North, with the final
selection based on years of work in the North.
In the Norilsk Industrial Area the unconditional categories are: (i) WWII veterans (including former
adolescent Nazi camp prisoners; citizens of Leningrad during the blockade and statutory workers oi war
industries); (ii) those who were repressed under Stalin's regime (i.e. labor camp veterans); (iii) immobile
and housebound invalids (categories 1 and 2) and families with handicapped children; (iv) families with
three and more children. The conditional category is old-age pensioners, with the final selection based on
years of work in the North.
In Susuman District the unconditional categories are: (i) immobile and housebound invalids (categor es 1
and 2) and families with handicapped children; (ii) Families with three or more children where at leasl one
parent has 15 years of service in the North; (iii) single mothers; (iv) incomplete families receiving surv vors
pension benefits; (v) budget and housing sector employees from Shiroky, Belichan, Bolshevik, Kadykchan,
Ust-Khahchan, Berelekh and (vi) old-age pensioners. The conditional category would be households with
children from Shiroky, Belichan, Bolshevik, Kadykchan, Ust-Khakchan, Udarnik settlements, Bere ekh,
Aeroport and Zarechye settlements of the City of Susuman, based on agreed screening criteria (t be
developed).
A migration unit under the project is a household. Together with an applicant, family members and
relatives who are registered as sharing the same living area with said applicant are also eligible fo the
migration support. The premises occupied by a family should be abandoned and turned over to the .ocal
authorities. The authorities in Norilsk Industrial Area have also decided to permit the provision of
migration support to close relatives who live separately, but also surrender their housing, to encourage the
- 44 -



outflow of multi-generation families. The authorities in the other two project sites have decided against this
option.
(iii) Migration Subsidy Mechanism
The migration support is provided in the form of the migration allowance that consists of the transportation
and housing components.
The transportation allowance covers the expenses of travel tickets and shipment of household goods within
established limits. This allowance is paid by local administrations directly to the service providers on
behalf of the migrants and will be verified by the LPIU. In the case of Susuman District, the payments for
the transportation allowance will then be reimbursed by the loan. This is due to the high cost of
transportation from this remote region and the different formula for calculating allowances for these
participants (see below).
The migration allowance is provided in the form of a certificate. Based on applications of the project
regions the IMWG approved participants and allowance amounts and the Local Administration issues
certificates to migrants. Once housing is identified, the migrants then open a blocked special account in a
Sberbank branch in a recipient region. After migrant fulfills the final conditions of the program, money is
transferred to the blocked special account of the certificate holder by the Federal Treasury based on
documents received from Sberbank.
The migration allowance is estimated to cover the cost of reasonable housing in central Russia. The basic
subsidy amount was formulated using current housing prices established from market surveys and official
information from the Ministry of Construction, which maintains infornation on housing sales, both new
and secondary. The amount will remain the same in dollar term throughout the life of the project and this
should guard against inflation of the ruble. The amount will be converted to rubles at the time the migrant
opens the special blocked account in Sberbank at the exchange rate of the Central Bank of Russia on that
day. The basic subsidy amount is $2400 per person.
Within the project, two different options of migration allowance are piloted. Option 1 is being used in
Vorkuta City and Norilsk Industrial Area and is distinguished by the following major features:
1) Amounts and sources of allocation of the migration and transportation subsidies are defmiitely
separated. The migration allowance is provided from the loan funds. The transportation subsidy is
provided by the local administration.
2) An individual migration allowance is calculated by the formula:
MA1 = (B x Z) x Y x V, where
MAI is the individual migration subsidy under Option 1;
B is the basic subsidy amount;
Z is the differentiation coefficient that reflects a term of service and a social significance (either 0.4,
0.6, 0.8 or 1.0 for different categories);
Y is a small family coefficient (1.7 for singles and 1.2 for couples);
V is a coefficient for intra-region migration for families which have used the migration subsidy but
have not left the northern areas (V = 0.6). This is introduced to reflect the difference in housing prices
between the Far North and Central Russia. At the same time, such families remain eligible for
assistance under government northern out-migration programs at equal conditions.
- 45 -



3) The aggregate migration allowance to a family (household) is calculated as a sum of indix idual
subsidies.
Option 2 is being used in Susuman District and has the following major features:
1) The migration allowance is provided in full from the funds of the loan.
2) The allowance is allocated as one amount and the migrants have the responsibility to decide how
much is allocated for migration and how much is allocated for transportation.
3) An individual migration allowance is calculated by the formula:
MA2 = (B x 0.7 + T) x Y x V, where
MA2 is the individual migration subsidy under Option 2;
B is the basic subsidy amount;
0.7 is a universal differentiation coefficient applied independently from a term of service (alternative to
Z in MAI);
T is a fixed transportation subsidy that covers travel expenses to the inland areas of Russia;
Y is a small family coefficient (1.7 for singles and 1.2 for couples);
* is a coefficient for intra-region migration for families which have used the migration subsidy but
have not left the northem areas (V = 0.6). This is introduced to reflect the difference in housing pnrces
between the Far North and Central Russia. At the same time, such families remain eligible for
assistance under government northern out-migration programs at equal conditions.
4) Since this options relies more on individual savings, there is an additional contribution to the
migration subsidy for the most socially vulnerable categories of population. This will be paid from the
local sources of finance replacing the local administration financing transportation.
(iv) Implementation of Migration Assistance Program
The selection principles of project participants, the rules for the migration subsidy allocation and use,
counterpart funds from local administrations are pre-determined before the onset of the project, included in
the Operations Manual and are not subject to revision in the process of its implementation.
The organization of work in support of migration in the project regions includes the following areas:
*   organization of the public awareness campaign and application process;
*   organization of the calculation of the migration subsidy and issuance of certificates;
* information and assistance to find housing in destination regions;
* assistance with making housing purchase arrangements;
*   assistance in organization of transportation;
*   other specific organizational help to the most physically vulnerable (e.g. packing)
*   information support to the migration assistance process.
Since one of the fundamental principles of the project is the free choice by migrants of a destination, the
information support to migration is one of the priority areas under the project. Participants of the project
may make a conscious and justified choice of a new place of residence as they are provided with assist.mce
to use the information system, which will incorporate information about the housing market, employrment
prospects, education and vocational training opportunities, social service provision and other characteristics
- 46 -



of potential recipient regions. The government support to the development of such information system is
envisaged under the Federal Policy Component.
The migration support process implies active work with individuals (actual or potential project
participants) and also affects the interests of the population in the project communities as a whole.
Therefore, the project needs continuous public awareness and information support. During project
implementation, the public awareness campaign will inform the population about the project; clarify
opportunities, rights and obligations to potential and actual project participants; promote a positive image
of the project and its individual components, and provide other information as required. Part of this
support will include direct work with, and information service for, the clients applying for migration
assistance.
Project Component 2 - US$5.77 million
Local Restructuring Support Component
The Local Restructuring Support Component is designed assist the municipalities implement local
restructuring plans, which they have developed. The plans aim to help municipalities maximize the
economic effect of the out-migration from the project communities through:
(i)    reduced expenditures as a result of demolition of abandoned housing and related utilities and other
facilities;
(ii)   improved budget management at the municipal level;
(iii)   improved management of municipal services;
(iv)    elimination of local incentives that makes northem in-migration attractive.
The project regions and the municipalities differ by economic conditions, sources and levels of revenues,
the system of intergovernmental fiscal relations, the existing practices and willingness to take innovative
decisions. These distinctions are reflected in individual local restructuring plans, which were developed in
each project site by the municipality and may result in a different pace of implementation in each case. The
municipalities had begun local restructuring and during project preparation consultants assisted the
municipalities to work out detailed plans.
The loan will finance technical assistance and training to assist the municipalities to implement and monitor
the reforms envisaged in the local restructuring plans. In particular, technical assistance and training will
be provided to:
*   assist municipalities to address substantial, procedural and organizational issues during the
preparation of regulatory documents that are required for the restructuring purposes;
*   assist municipalities to identify difficulties and constraints which hinder the restructuring process
and to develop recommendations to deal with these issues
*   assist municipalities to identify factors, which may cause the local restructuring plans to be
adjusted; and to develop recommendations for adjustment;
*   assist municipalities to prepare plans for major steps to be taken in local restructuring in the future.
The key areas of the local restructuring plans in each municipality, which the project will bolster through
technical assistance and training, are as follows:
For Vorkuta City the specific restructuring initiatives are:
*   establishment of predictable and transparent intergovernmental fiscal relations between Vorkuta
- 47 -



City and Komi Republic for at least three years through an agreement signed as a conditicn of
Board presentation;
*   demolition of housing, utility and other facilities in Promyshlenny settlement, Rudnik and Zarachie
districts of Vorkuta City;
*   increase in cost recovery for housing and utilities; introduction of contractual relationship in. the
provision and maintenance of housing and utilities; delegating to municipality the right to set tariffs
for housing and utilities; and introduction of transparent tariff negotiations process betweer, the
municipality and the utility providers.
For Norilsk Industrial Area the specific restructuring initiatives are:
*   to demolish dilapidated housing, utility and social infrastructure (education, health facilities) that
can be vacated as a result of out-migration;
*   increase in cost recovery for housing and utilities; introduction of contractual relationship ir the
provision and maintenance of housing and utilities; delegating to municipality the right to set tariffs
for housing and utilities;
*   to restructure public transportation including a separation of intra-enterprise from  municipal
transportation services, to attract private transportation service providers.
For Susuman District the specific restructuring initiatives are:
*   to improve budget management, i.e. to straighten intergovernmental fiscal relations, to increase a
portion of the budget execution in cash, to introduce clear guidelines for offsets;
*   to reform the housing and utility sector including an increased cost-recovery level and payrnent
discipline; to improve the management system and the contractual relationship system in the
housing and utility sector; to reform the pricing regulation;
*   establishment of stable interbudgetary relationship between Susuman district and Magadan Oblast
for three years;
*   commercialization of the provision of municipal services in gold-mining settlements.
Consolidation of housing and utilities in Norilsk City and Vorkuta City to allow demolition of buildings
will occur once migrants leave the area and their apartments allocated to people currently on municipal
waiting lists for improved housing. These people are registered for improved housing conditions because
their buildings are ready to be condemned and/or the water supply is of very low quality. According to
municipal housing regulations, these residents are offered a selection of housing; the out-migration will
expedite this process.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.20 million
Monitoring and Evaluation Component
Monitoring During Implementation
The experimental nature of the project suggests that special importance should be paid to monitoring of
project and evaluating its effectiveness. Therefore, the following types of monitoring will be perfonned
during implementation: (i) project implementation monitoring; (ii) migration process monitoring; (iii)
monitoring of the project implementation economic effect.
(i) The project implementation monitoring will be carried out on a quarterly basis in each project region
and will include the following major elements:
*   summary information on the progress of the project implementation (number of certificates issujed,
- 48 -



certificates used, migrants departed, etc.);
*   problems arising in the process of the project implementation including complaints from project
participants; inconsistencies and conflict situations in relationships between the PIU, the LPIU, the
Coordination Councils, regional and local authorities; difficulties with providing local
contributions, etc.;
* monitoring of the counterpart funds from local administrations;
* monitoring of the implementation of local restructuring plans;
* monitoring of housing surrender by migrants in the project regions.
Project implementation monitoring will be conducted as follows:
(a)    Reporting information will be summarized. The information on a number of redeemed certificates,
locations of new housing purchases by each migrant and the cost of housing will be contained in the PIU
data base. Information on a number of applications for the participation in the project, the number of
accepted applications, the number of issued certificates, the number of transportation subsidies provided
and the number of people who have left, the number of apartments turned over to the local adrninistration
and processing time will be contained in the LPIU databases and provided to the PIU. The LPfUs will also
provide a project implementation progress report that will reflect difficulties, unusual situations, etc. Data
on counterpart funds will be provided by financial departments of local administrations.
(b)    PIU representatives and consultants will visit each participating region quarterly. Discussions of
the project implementation process will be held with LPIUs, members of the Coordination Councils,
regional and local authorities. Discussions will also be held with individual project participants. Analysis
of the implementation of local restructuring plans will be conducted and identification of tasks for the next
quarter will be identified.
(c)    The PIU will prepare summarized quarterly project management reports.
The project implementation monitoring will be performed jbintly by the PIU staff and consultants.
Monitoring of local restructuring plans and PR activities will be supported with technical assistance in
these areas.
(ii) The migration process monitoring will be carried out in two major forms:
Social monitoring of migration will be carried out at the following key phases of the migration process: (a)
completion of the application campaign; (b) completion of the certificate issuance; (c) six months after
completion of the certificate issuance.
The social monitoring will be performed by consultants. At each phase there will be organized focus
groups, sample interviews with project participants, interviews with members of the LPIU and other
officials, who are directly involved in the project implementation. The following features will be included:
*   public attitudes toward the project;
*   use and utility of the information system for migrants;
*   satisfaction with project processes and services;
*   interaction between LPIU staff and potential migrants;
*   identify possible abuses;
*   effectiveness of the public awareness campaign.
- 49 -



In addition to monitoring social benchmarks and attitudes and impacts, the project will also establish a
telephone Hot Line which migrants can contact to inquire about the status of support, to obtain 1ther
information and to report complaints. The operation of the Hot Line will be monitored systematica.ly to
record the content of calls and the disposition of inquiries and complaints, focusing on the volumt and
subject of contacts, as well as the time required to resolve each complaint and answer each inquiry.
Monitoring of destination information will be done on an on-going basis through information collected at
the PIU about destinations of out-migrants. The information will be received from Sberbank from the data
on certificates paid in the recipient regions. This information will serve as a basis for identification cf the
preferred destination areas where the evaluation of the project social outcomes will be conducted.
(iii) The economic effects of the project will be monitored annually by reviewing the annual bu.dget
execution of the localities, the following year's budgets and enterprises' expenditures, actual and projected.
Monitoring will also include analysis of how such savings are shared between the enterprises and the p ablic
authorities. In addition, a qualitative assessment will be made of economic effects of migration that cannot
be directly related to budget savings. The analysis will also include an examination of the reducticn of
expenditures at the regional and federal levels, as well as within the extra-budgetary funds. Based on such
analysis, proposals will be made about additional measures that might further increase the economic impact
of the project for the following year. The monitoring will be performed by consultants jointly with ocal
fiscal authorities.
Evaluation of the project
At the end of the project, an evaluation of the project impact will be conducted, and will include: (i)
evaluation of the economic results of the project; (ii) evaluation of the social results of the project; (iii)
evaluation of the effectiveness and appropriateness of implementation arrangements.
(i) The evaluation of the economic results of the project will be performed by consultants baseil on
economic monitoring results during implementation. It will include the following:
X evaluation of costs for out-migration;
* evaluation of the economic effects of migration and the local restructuring plans;
* evaluation of the use of savings resulting from the project.
(ii) The evaluation of the social results of the project includes three major elements: an evaluation of
social impacts in the participating regions; an evaluation of the social impacts in the recipient regions and
an evaluation of the project from the participants' perspective. All areas of the social evaluation will be
conducted by consultants.
The evaluation of the project social results in the participating regions includes:
*   analysis of changes in social structure over the period of the project implementation (i.e. structure
of working versus non-working population);
*   interviews with representatives of the regional and local authorities;
*   focus group discussions with inhabitants of project sites who did not participate in the project.
The evaluation of the project social results in the major recipient regions includes:
*   tracer studies of migrants;
*   selection of preferred regions, where a significant number of project participants have moved
(major recipient regions);
- 50 -



*   analysis of demographic changes during the period of the project implementation;
* interviews with representatives of the regional and local authorities;
* focus group discussions with existing population of the settlements with concentrated resettlement
of migrants.
(iii) The evaluation of the implementation arrangements of the project will be conducted by the PIU,
assisted by consultants. It will include the analysis of results of procedures, instruments and schemes,
which have been used under the project to assist migration and to maximize its economic and social
outcomes, namely:
*   evaluation of the effectiveness and cost effectiveness of the housing certificate mechanism for
out-migration in comparison with previous schemes;
* evaluation of migration effects of the project on the housing market in the recipient regions;
* evaluation of the efficiency of procedures established within the project
* assessment of the economic impact of migration on beneficiaries.
In respect to all above areas, the evaluation will include: compliance of established rules and applicable
instruments with the project purposes; their cost-saving effects, simplicity and transparency; efficient
prevention of abuses; direct and indirect effects of their application.
Based on the summnarized experience of the project outcomes, the evaluation will result in the development
of recommendations for improvements of the federal northern policy as a whole and the migration
assistance policy in particular. Summarized findings of the project will be discussed in a report that will be
prepared at the end of the project.
Project Component 4 - US$3.34 million
Federal Component
The Federal Component will: (i) provide technical assistance to the Government of Russia in the area of
Northern policy revision and drafting of relevant legislation; (ii) provide support to applied research to
study problems of northern development and Northern policy reform; (iii) set up and develop a nation-wide
information network that will allow potential migrants from the North to take justified decisions about
destination of migration and that will provide mobility support; (iv) support for public information and
consensus building activities through dissemination of recommendations on further improvements of the
northern policy.
(i) Technical assistance will be provided by institutional consultants accountable to Government agencies
and IMWG for the development of new legislative and normative framework ensuring transformation of the
North along market principles in the areas of inter-budgetary relations, labor regulations, pension reform,
migration policy, local restructuring. Technical assistance provided will take into account both legal and
economic, fiscal and social aspects of reforn.
(ii) Analysis of the transition of the Northem economy and the changing role of the public sector in the
Northern economy, as well as defining strategic support from the public sector. This sub-component will
support general changes in the Northern policy by exploration of specific issues of Northern
transformation. The possible list of research projects includes: (a) principles of public policy in respect to
migration from the North; (b) public policy towards stimulating development of the non-governmental
mechanisms to support Northern out-migration; (c) interaction of Northern labor market development and
Northern migration trends; (d) new forms of contractual relations ensuring improved labor mobility in the
- 51 -



North; (e) alternative mechanisms of sharing economic rents in the Russian North and prospects of its
economic development. The IMWG will be in charge of approving specific research tasks.
(iii) develop a national information system that will allow potential migrants from the North to take
justified decisions about destination of migration:
*   Expansion of housing information system that will provide migrants, both in participating regions
and other regions, information on available housing in other regions;
*   Establishment of an information system  in participating regions that will provide migrants
information on possible regions for relocation (social infrastructure, employment, educatior and
training opportunities, healthcare, etc.).
The information infrastructure is not limited to meeting the needs of three participating regions but has
national significance since it can be used as an information support to all migration (including other than
northem migration).
(iv) The goal of consensus building activities will be reached by organization of the following intemat onal
and nationwide conferences and seminars: (a) Strategy of Northern policy reform; (b) Labor market il the
North;  (c) Settlement patterns in the North;  (d) conferences and seminars to disseminate project
experience and lessons learnt.
Project Component 5 - US$7.94 million
Project M76anagement and Coordination
The Project will support project management and coordination bodies. The principal elements of this
management structure are:
*   The Inter-Ministerial Working Group (IMWG);
*   The Project Implementation Unit (PIU);
*   Coordination/Supervisory Councils in each project site;
*   Local Project Implementation Units (LPIU) in each project site;
*   Local (municipal) administrations in each project site;
*   Regional governments in each project territory.
The RF Ministry of Finance and the Sberbank also participate in the implementation of the project and
fulfill some managerial functions. All institutions and their functions are described in greater detail in
Annex 12.
The Project will support the operating costs of the PIU and partial costs of the LPIUs. The remainder of
the LPIU costs will be covered by local funds. The project will also support necessary project-re ated
travel costs of civil servants of the IMWG and the Coordination/Supervisory Councils.
- 52 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Northern Restructuring Project
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Comnonent                  US $million    US $mrilfion    US $million
Migration Assistance Component                              72.44          0.00         72.44
Local Restructuring Support Component                        5.09          0.18          5.27
Monitoring and Evaluation Component                           1.00         0.13           1.13
Federal Component                                            2.16           1.04          3.20
Project Management                                           7.23          0.22           7.45
Total Baseline Cost                                         87.92           1.57        89.49
Physical Contingencies                                      3.37          0.02          3.39
Price Contingencies                                         1.50          0.06           1.56
Total Project Costs               92.79          1.65         94.44
Front-end fee                      0.80          0.80
Total Financing Required                92.79          2.45         95.24
Financier                            Local           Foreign           Total          Percentage
US$ million     US$ million      US$ million
IBRD                                  78.15            1.85             80.00           84.1%
Ministry of Finance                   1.48             0.00             1.48             1.5%
Vorkuta Administration                2.68             0.00             2.68             2.8%
Norilsk Administration                8.86             0.00             8.86             9.3%
Susuman Administration                0.85             0.00             0.85             0.9%
PDL Sub-grant                         0.77             0.60             1.37             1.4%
Total                                 92.79            2.45            95.24             100%
Identifiable taxes and duties are 1.48 (USSrr) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 92.96 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 95_2% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 53 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Northern Restructuring Project
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Benefits. Two clusters of benefits have been quantified for the purposes of the cost-benefit analysis. The
first cluster includes the effects of downsizing on public expenditures and operations of extra-budg, tary
entities (primarily, RAO Norilsk Nickel). These are triggered by out-migration and include: (i) lower
costs related to managing a smaller and better grouped stock of housing and infrastructure (healthcare and
education facilities, etc.); (ii) a lower level of federal transfers to households, primarily through a I. sser
need for Northern shipments; and (iii) the effects of the Government's new Northern policy from
harmonization of Northern benefits with the rest of the country. Amount of these per capita savings by
social groups and project sites is presented in Table 1.
Table 1. Annual per capita savings by the consolidated budget (by social groups of out-migrants and
project sites, USD on the cash basis)
Weighted Total      Vorkuta          Norilsk      Susuman District
Weighted average          608.05           422.27           774.40           466.69
Pensioner                 372.65           274.90           593.82           381.91
Disabled                  526.25           395.16           547.16           341.61
Unemployed                535.88           608.64           508.11           643.89
Employed                  367.32           351.63           502.54           380.34
Children                  849.02           579.98           1339.29          590.09
Other                     367.32           351.63           502.54           380.34
In brief, numbers in Table I have been received by (i) re-classifying total actual household related
expenditures of the consolidated budget in three project sites and one model (country average) recioient
region (see Table A at the end of Annex) to get expenditures breakdown by different social groups, (ii)
calculating an average per capita reduction in expenditures for each of social groups in eac : of
participating regions and a respective increase in expenditures in the model recipient region, and (iii)
comparing those values to assess an amount of per capita savings generated by the resettlement. A more
detailed description of how these values have been estimated can be found below, in the Methodclogy
section of this Annex.
Knowledge of the social structure of potential out-migrants for each of the project sites (see Table 2) allows
to calculate average per capita savings shown in the first line of Table 1. This calculation illustrates that
for each thousand of out-migrants the consolidated budget will save on average $608,000 per annum.
- 54 -



Table 2. Structure of out-migrants by project sites
Persons/families      Total number of
migrants
Susuman                                                 2114                  6002
Disabled                                                238                    631
Single mothers                                          211                    514
Families with 3 or more children                        182                    961
Old-aged pensioners                                     1305                  3393
Budget sector employees                                 178                    503
Norilsk                                                 4599                  15105
Repressed                                               434                    738
WWII veterans                                           419                    964
Disabled                                                2546                  7129
Families with 3 and more children                       1200                  6275
Vorkuta                                                 3688                  6422
WWII veterans (work experience > 15)                    257                    591
Old aged pensioners (work experience > 35)              1333                  3732
Residents of Promyshlenny                               2098                  2098
This also allows to calculate the total consolidated budget savings triggered by the project. These savings
are presented in the first line of Table 3. The total annual savings on the cash basis arnount to $17.1
million. Table 3 also presents origin of these savings.
Table 3. Reduction of consolidated budget expenditures on social payments and other household
related expenditures (USD per year)
Total        Vorkuta         Norilsk     Susuman District
Total                 17 061 307.23  2 711 618.21    11 548 593.90    2 801 095.13
Reduction of expenditures on pensions,  359 067.85     58 729.85      197 561.17       102 776.83
other payments to pensioners and disabled,
unemployment benefits and other
Reduction of expenditures on health care,   7 516 804.59   1 017 641.18    5 785 315.47  713 847.94
education and social policy, including child
allowances
Other sources of savings (reduction in  204 431.58     50 523.98       1 164.18        152 743.42
amount of transfers between different
levels of budget, reduction of expenditures
on Federal programs and Northern
shipments, etc.)
Reduction of expenditures on housing,  8 981 003.21   1 584 723.20    5 564 553.08    1 831 726.93
utilities and transportation         I_I
Given relatively small amount of expenditures on child allowances, the major part of savings presented in
the second line of Table 3 will be generated by consolidation of social infrastructure (schools, hospitals,
etc.). Hence it is apparent form Table 3 that the bulk of savings will be generated by consolidation of
housing and infrastructure. This consolidation will be achieved through (i) shutting down one and
- 55 -



resettling two other settlements in Vorkuta region, (ii) demolition of dilapidated housing and shutting down
relevant infrastructure in Norilsk, and (iii) consolidating infrastructure (including social) in Suwuman
District. Details of consolidation plans are presented in Annex 12. In addition, annual cost of maintaining
housing and infrastructure subject to consolidation in Vorkuta and Susuman regions - and hence potential
for savings on consolidation - is presented in Table B at the end of this Annex.
Given importance of housing and infrastructure consolidation for achieving the desired level of consol dated
budget savings, and the need to generate savings originated from full closure of facilities (boilers, heaters)
the project is designed in a way that allows to achieve the desired effect of downsizing. This is the rat, onale
behind closure of economically non-viable community Promyshlenny in Vorkuta. In Susuman cistrict
where settlements will become small bases for primarily temporary labor force working during the sunmuer
period the residents will have an option either to migrate to the "mainland", or resettlement to a place where
housing and infrastructure services will be maintained in full scope at public expense (usually, the "district
center") or stay in the downsized settlement with full obligation for private pay for heating. In Norilsl: after
departure of out-migrants belonging to the targeted social groups, dwellers of dilapidating housing will be
offered an opportunity to upgrade their living conditions by moving into apartments released by
out-migrants. Hence planned "pocket" consolidation of housing and infrastructure will still be achieved.
The second group of quantified benefits is associated with a change in well-being of out-migrants after
resettlement. For most social groups (although, notably not for all) reduction in out-migrants' income after
resettlement (due to elimination of Northem-specific benefits) is more than compensated for by a reduction
in the cost of living.  Hence for the majority of out-migrants the well-being shall increase, and on the
whole, this represents a benefit of the project.
Impact of this factor on the result of cost-benefit analysis is presented in Table 5.
Of course, two above groups of benefits do not exhaust all positive consequences of the project. However,
lack of available data and problems with quantifying some of expected results have not allowed to irclude
all of them in the cost-benefit analysis. Among those benefits that have been left out from the cost-benefit
analysis are (i) reduction in the burden of mandatory northem benefits after elimination of the mancdatory
nature of such benefits for newcomers (excluded due to highly volatile number of newcomers and
uncertainty about a timetable of phasing out those benefits), (ii) savings generated by the energy and
infrastructure monopolies because of contraction in services provided to the North (excluded due to kLck of
data on tariff and cost structure), (iii) savings produced by local budget restructuring programs on top of
simple consolidation of infrastructure and housing (excluded due to unfinalized status of such plans at a
time when cost-benefit analysis was performed), and (iv) positive changes in social and environmental
extemalities (excluded due to difficulties with quantification).
It is apparent form the sheer nature of the unquantified impacts that, if included, all these factors would
have only increased net present value of the project.
- 56 -



Costs. Total project cost comprises the following expenditures on support to out-migration:
*   Local government's co-financing in the form  of (i) transportation allowance (airfare for
out-migrants, plus cost of forwarding five tones of luggage per household) in Vorkuta and Norilsk,
(ii) additional financial allowance to the poorest families and reimbursement of VAT on cargo
transportation in Magadan, and (iii) partial funding of the local PIUs;
*   Cost of housing and infrastructure consolidation, including necessary demolition and conservation
activities in the shut down settlements;
*   Loan repayment and service expenses.
The average per capita annual cost of the project (at present value) is $1,959.
Main Assumptions:
Main assumptions and cost-benefit analysis methodology.
Each participant in the project is offered a migration subsidy. The base amount of the subsidy financed out
of the World Bank loan is US$2,400; the base amount may be adjusted by a coefficient which depends on a
migrant's social category (single pensioner, etc. - see details on subsidy calculation in Annex 2).  In
addition, the project envisages co-financing of the migration subsidy by the local authorities. The total
number of migrants expected to participate in the project is 27,529 people.
Out-migrants from Vorkuta and Norilsk are offered a base migration allowance paid from the Loan. In
addition, the local budget pays an actual cost of transportation of all migrants and their baggage (one
20-feet container per family) to a new residence. For the migrants from Susuman, the subsidy amounts to
70% of the base subsidy, plus transportation costs (travel and transportation of a 5-feet container to
Moscow), which, roughly, makes up the same US$2,400 financed by the loan. The local budget provides
an additional allowance for the poorest families, which may total up to 30% of the base subsidy. The local
authorities' appropriation for this purpose is limited to Rbl. 6 mln. (approximately USD 240,000 at an
average exchange rate for 1999).
Analysis has been performed on an assumption that (i) proportion of family members that will opt not to
follow the main recipient of the subsidy will be negligible, (ii) an average participation rate will not vary
significantly across targeted categories of the population, (iii) approximately 70 percent of out-migrants
will chose Central Russia regions for new residence, the rest 30 percent will move to another location
within the North (no reduction coefficient has been applied to the value of housing subsidy for
intra-regional migrants), (iv) cost of infrastructure demolition will be minor relative to the total cost, (v)
loan repayment terms will be regular ones for Bank investment loans in Russia; and (vi) loan funds will be
transferred to the participating regions on a grant basis, i.e. without any fee from a sub-national to the
federal budget. Discount rate used in Net Present Value calculations was 10 percent.
Given that value of the Northern benefits varies between targeted social groups (pensioners, disabled,
unemployed, children, rest of Northem residents) and between project sites, cost-benefit calculations have
been performed for each of categories in each of three regions. Per capita net effect has been subsequently
aggregated to a project site level using number of potential migrants in targeted social groups. Budget
direct savings triggered by out-migration were assessed as a difference between per capita reduction in
consolidated budget expenditures in the North (PN) and per capita increase in relevant expenditures in the
model recipient region (PS).
- 57 -



Annual savings from one migrant moving to a new place of residence can be computed as a sum of (:) G -
average per capita annual budget savings on provision of public services - amount of savings depends on
infrastructure consolidation option: if a settlement is shut down, savings are computed on the basis oi total
annual expenditures on its maintenance (see Table B for details); in the case of partial migration,
expenditures contraction equals cost of maintaining housing and infrastructure that become redundart and
may be shut down, and (ii) delta P - savings on the cost of individual payments to households which is
equal to a difference between individual payments in a northem and recipient region
Y =G+P N-P S
Technically speaking, growth in housing and infrastructure expenditures in recipient regions has to be taken
into account. However, considering relatively small number of potential migrants and their likely wide
dispersion across
regions of the central Russia, it has been assumed that increase in expenditures in a recipient region ux ill be
limited to individual social payments to arriving migrants. This means that no noticeable grox&th in
recipient regions' expenditures on housing and communal services, healthcare, education, and
transportation is expected. This assumption is supported by a review of the earlier out-migration's irnipact
on recipient regions, which was conducted in the course of project preparation, and by an underutilization
of social infrastructure capacity in majority of recipient regions. However, for a bigger scale project such
assumption might need to be reconsidered.
The cost of a migrant resettlement is calculated as a sum of the migration subsidy (S), mat-.hing
co-financing by the local authorities per migrant (F), and per capita cost of repaying and servicing the
World Bank's Loan (a):
C =S +F +I
Upon calculation of the annual per capita savings and costs, Net Present Value of moving one migrant in a
relevant social group was calculated. To get NPV of the project, per capita NPV for each of targeted
social groups was multiplied by a number of potential migrants in relevant groups in each of project sites.
Subsequently, NPV calculated for the three project sites was aggregated to the project level, wit.l the
simultaneous incorporation of the federal component cost. Savings were calculated in 1998 prices, and
then, using an integrated deflator (simple average of GDP Deflator and CPI), all values were transfo--med
into 1999 prices. All variables were calculated in USD equivalent (using the averaged exchange rate for
1 999).
Results of cost-benefit analysis. Results of cost-benefit analysis, which was carried out in accordance with
the above methodology, are presented in Tables 4-6.
- 58 -



Table 4. Annual Per Capita Reductions in Consolidated Budget Expenditures in the Project Sites due
to Out-migration, by social groups, dollars
Weighted Total      Vorkuta          Norilsk         Susuman
District
Pensioner                    776,16           648,18          1050,20           798,45
Disabled                     762,76           714,39           770,24           697,25
Unemployed                   545,41           644,10           509,22           720,21
Employed                     367,32           351,63           502,54           380,34
Children                     872,02           603,62          1361,56           613,81
Other                        367,32           351,63           502,54           380,34
Table 5. Annual Per Capita Increases in Enlarged Budget Expenditures in a Model Recipient region
due to Out-migration, by social groups, dollars
Weighted Total      Vorkuta          Norilsk       Susuman District
Pensioner                  403,51           373,28           456,38            416,54
Disabled                   236,51           319,23           223,08            355,64
Unemployed                  9,53             35,46            1,11              76,32
Employed
Children                    23,00            23,64            22,27             23,72
Other
Table 6. Annual Per Capita Enlarged Budget Savings due to Out-migration, by project sites and
social groups, dollars
Weighted Total      Vorkuta          Norilsk          Susuman
District
Weighted average           608.05           422.27           774.40           466.69
Pensioner                  372,65           274,90           593,82           381,91
Disabled                   526,25           395,16           547,16           341,61
Unemployed                 535,88           608,64           508,11           643,89
Employed                   367,32           351,63           502,54           380,34
Children                   849,02           579,98           1339,29          590,09
Other                      367,32           351,63           502,54           380,34
By multiplying weighted averages by the number of potential out-migrants in each of the project sites -
- 59 -



6,422 in Vorkuta, 15,105 in Norilsk, and 6,002 in Susuman - annual per capita budget savings were
aggregated to the project level. Results are presented in Table 7.
Table 7. Annual Savings under the Project, by project sites and components of the consolidated
budget, dollars
Total         Vorkuta         Norilsk         Susi man
Dis rict
Total                                  17 061 307.23    2 711 618.21    11 548 593.90    2 801 )95.13
Including:
Federal budget                       1 109 323.74    132 338.58       11 873.04      965 112.12
Extra-budgetary funds                359 067.85       58 729.85      197 561.17      102 776.83
Regional and local budgets          10 213 528.09    2 520 549.77    5 959 772.15    1 733 '06.17
Quasi-budget expenditures of Norilsk    5 379 387.55                5 379 387.55
Nickel
Tables 4-7 present results calculated on the basis of budget cash outlays. Table 8 summarizes additional
impact of accounting for a change in budget overdue payables and in out-migrants well-being. As a -esult,
is presents the total annual value of quantified economic benefits of the project. The data sugge't that
sub-national governments would be major beneficiaries of the project. This is the reflection of the fait that
about 80% of all budget savings associated with the project derive from closing of social assets and
housing in the North. Reduction in federal social payments constitute much smaller, while still signilicant,
savings.
Table 8. Value of Annual Economic Benefits of the Project, by project sites, dollars
Total         Vorkuta         Norilsk        Susumran
Distri nt
Total                                 28 584 033.30   3 825 813.71   22 039 540.91    2 718 678.68
Including:
On the cash basis              17 061 307.23   2 711 618.21    11 548 593.90    2 801 095.13
Due to a change in budget       6 297 325.14    1 491 714.45    4 594 881.21    210 72'.48
overdue payables
Due to a change in out-migrants    5 225 400.93    - 377 518.94    5 896 065.80  - 293 145.93
well-being
Expectedly, an annual economic value of the project exceeds its financial total by over $11 million. Such
result is determined by a higher per capita budget overdue payables in the northern regions relative to the
rest of Russia, and even compared with the southern parts of the participating regions, to which
intra-regional migrants will head. The positive effect also arises from a fact that reduction in household's
- 60 -



income after resettlement is smaller than a difference in the cost of living between northem and recipient
regions for the majority of out-migrants (although due to a high share of working population in Vorkuta
and Susuman, well-being impact of resettlement appears to be negative in these regions).
Finally, Table 9 presents results of the net present value and payback period calculations.
Table 9. NPV and Pay-back period of the project
Total           Vorkuta           Norilsk       Susuman Rayon
Industrial Rayon   Industrial Rayon
Value of annual economic    28 584 033.30    3 825 813.71     22 039 540.91     2 718 678.68
benefits, dollars
Total project costs,       52 015 388.17    10 349 893.88     31 820 735.09     9 844 759.21
dollars
Net present value, dollars    238 992 519.27    27 908 243.27  188 574 674.03    22 509 601.97
Payback period, years          3.07              4.31             2.64              4.81
These results prove sufficient economic efficiency of the project. Achievement of cost recovery in
slightly over three years should ensure project's sustainability and replicability.
- 61 -



Source Tables
Table A. Budget expenditures, regional coefficients and population by participating and recipient
regions
Model recipient region (Central Russia) - actual, 1998
Indicator
Expenditures on housing and utilities, thous. $               9475103
Coal subsidies to population, thous. $
Expenditures on social protection, thous. $                   6471661
including
- child allowances, thous. $                                  1353324
Expenditures on health, thous. $                               6461144
Expenditures on education, thous. $                           9736458
Expenditures on transport, thous. $                            1852303
Expenditures on Federal programs, thous. $
Northem shipment, thous. $
Total budget expenditures, thous. $                          74220522
Credit debt, thous. $                                          1274216
Budget tax revenues, thous. $                                 54601636
Transfers and mutual settlements                               3016417
- including
- from Federal budget
from oblast budget
- from/to rayons budgets
Extra budgetary funds
Amount of pensions paid, thous. $
Amount of disability pensions paid, thous. $
Unemployment benefit, thous. $
Demographic data
Population                                                   147105000
Number of pensioners receiving pensions                      23800000
Number of disabled receiving pensions
Number of unemployed                                           1900000
Number of employed                                            57900000
Number of children                                            31367000
- including those - recipients of child allowances
Subsistence minimum, $/month                                     49,47
Rayon coefficient
- 62 -



Magadan Oblast - actual 1998
Indicator                       Shirokii   Susuma   Magadan   Magadan
n rayon                Oblast
Expenditures on housing and utilities, thous. $          282    3841,1    31486,8      62563,3
Coal subsidies to population, thous. $
Expenditures on social protection, thous. $                0      163,2      873,8       3368,7
including
- child allowances, thous. $                              0       26,5       16,1       1022,8
Expenditures on health, thous. $                        24,2    1414,1      4486,7      17681,3
Expenditures on education, thous. $                    237,5    2651,4    12191,2        28295
Expenditures on transport, thous. $                        0       92,4     1698,9       2095,4
Expenditures on Federal programs, thous. $                                  2980,4         26,5
Northern shipment, thous. $                                                             32117,7
Total budget expenditures, thous. $                    515,1   10947,9    57107,3    190304,6
Credit debt, thous. $                                  300,1    1875,3    17813,7       18830,5
Budget tax revenues, thous. $                                    6362,4    45581,8     90907,6
Transfers and mutual settlements                                           14711,6      52399,3
- including
- from Federal budget                                                                 52399,3
- from oblast budget                                            3021,1
- from/to rayons budgets                              241,6    1231,1
Extra budgetary funds
Amount of pensions paid, thous. $                      115,4      2579                  35431,7
Amount of disability pensions paid, thous. $             5,2      220,8
Unemployment benefit, thous. $                           0,5      256,4                  1545,4
Demographic data
Population                                              1041     20787      130600      239800
Number of pensioners receiving pensions                  153      3608       25000       46610
Number of disabled receiving pensions                      8       378        3171        3664
Number of unemployed                                      22       420        2400        3958
Number of employed                                       589     10199       37100      119400
Number of children                                       241      4991       29300       38703
- including those - recipients of child allowances                3800                   38703
Subsistence minimum, $/month                           203,7       110        151,2       110,2-
Rayon coefficient                                        1,8        1,8         1,8         1,8
- 63 -



Komi Republic - actual 1998
Indicator                      Promyshlenny    Vorkuta    Komi Rep.
Expenditures on housing and utilities, thous. $           265,1      25986,6      13217(1,8
Coal subsidies to population, thous. $
Expenditures on social protection, thous. $                57,2       3709,1       2745t',5
including
- child allowances, thous. $                              57,2       2397,8        355j,1
Expenditures on health, thous. $                          140,4      11177,6      6367E,7
Expenditures on education, thous. $                       377,6      16165,7      11403( ,6
Expenditures on transport, thous. $                        67,1        830,5        7572,2
Expenditures on Federal programs, thous. $                                            14,3
Northern shipment, thous. $                                                         28767
Total budget expenditures, thous. $                       955,2      63146,9      60121t,8
Credit debt, thous. $                                     789,9      27298,8      2360C,5
Budget tax revenues, thous. $                                        49316,3      354562,3
Transfers and mutual settlements
- including
- from Federal budget                                                            23665,5
- from oblast budget                                                 9505,7
- from/to rayons budgets                                                               0
Extra budgetary funds
Amount of pensions paid, thous. $                         229,2      24334,6
Amount of disability pensions paid, thous. $               35,2       2948,2
Unemployment benefit, thous. $                            101,6        962,3        6505,4
Demographic data
Population                                                 2163      177300       1160700
Number of pensioners receiving pensions                     478       38100        246300
Number of disabled receiving pensions                        73         1663        22400
Number of unemployed                                        115        3801         366Z 0
Number of employed                                          901       77700
Number of children                                          520       33861        268000
- including those - recipients of child allowances
Subsistence minimum, $/month                               69,2         69,2          53,1
Rayon coefficient                                           1,6          1,6
- 64 -



Krasnoyarskii Kray - actual 1998
Indicator                    Norilsk        Norilsk       Norilsk      Krasnoyarsk
Indust.       Indust.        Indust.        Kray
Rayon (city     Rayon          Rayon
budget)     (enterprise      (total)
budget)
Expenditures on housing and utilities, thous. $  3952,7      108961,4      112914,1        197971,2
Coal subsidies to population, thous. $
Expenditures on social protection, thous. $        12,9       19066,7       31950,1        40957,3
including
- child allowances, thous. $                       5,6             0          5556        18531,1
Expenditures on health, thous. $                49190,3             0       49190,3        150741,1
Expenditures on education, thous. $             46016,7           0,4         46017       206692,9
Expenditures on transport, thous. $               541,9       21615,7       22157,6        21109,5
Expenditures on Federal programs, thous. $           0                            0            15,3
Northern shipment, thous. $                          0                            0          2604,1
Total budget expenditures, thous. $            137997,7                     137997,7      974795,5
Credit debt, thous. $                          113605,0                     113605,0        55007,7
Budget tax revenues, thous. $                  121858,6                    121858,6       847770,1
Transfers and mutual settlements
- including
- from Federal budget                                                                      2709,8
- from oblast budget                                                                       8239,8
- fromlto rayons budgets
Extra budgetary funds
Amount of pensions paid, thous. $               27606,6       27606,6       27606,6
Amount of disability pensions paid, thous. $     1344,7         1344,7        1344,7
Unemployment benefit, thous. $                    211,9         211,9         211,9
Demographic data                                                                  0
Population                                      238900         238900        238900        3092300
Number of pensioners receiving pensions          32844          32844         32844         696000
Number of disabled receiving pensions             3273           3273          3273
Number of unemployed                             20668          20668         20668          59000
Number of employed                                                                         1395500
Number of children                               39118          39118         39118
- including those - recipients of child          28428         28428         28428
allowances
Subsistence minimum, $/month                      157,3         157,3          157,3           49,8
Rayon coefficient                                   1,8            1,8           1,8
- 65 -



Table B. Actual budget expenditures on maintaining infrastructure that will be shut down under the
project in Vorkuta and Susuman regions
Rudnik and Zarechnii (Vorkuta) - 1999, actual, $ thousands,
Current Costs on Maintenance                                               618.5
- housing                                                                  220.1
- roads and illumination                                                   47.6
- cleaning and development of territory                                    54.9
- boiler house and heat network                                            148.7
- school #3                                                                104.1
- kindergarten #50                                                         15.5
- suspension (pedestrian) bridge                                           27.6
Capital Investments                                                        90.6
- Preparation of housing and social infrastructure facilities for the winter period  90.6
- major repair of housing and facilities                                   0.0
- repair of roads and streets                                              0.0
TOTAL                                                                      709.1
Population                                                                 1,242
- 66 -



Promyshlenny (Vorkuta) - 1999, actual, $ thousands
Current Costs on Maintenance                                         830.6
- housing                                                            220.1
- roads                                                              0.0
- cleaning and development of territory                              54.9
- gas network                                                        36.0
- boiler house and heat network                                      350.0
- school #15                                                         124.3
- kindergarten #107                                                  23.5
- culture center                                                     16.0
- skating rink                                                       5.8
Capital Investments                                                  50.3
- Preparation of housing and social infrastructure facilities for the winter   50.3
period
- major repair of housing and facilities                             0.0
- repair of roads and streets                                        0.0
TOTAL                                                                880.9
Population                                                           2,098
Bolshevik (Susuman Rayon) - 1999, actual, $ thousands
Boiler stations                                                      233.5
Water pumping stations                                               7.2
Housing maintenance                                                  207.0
Bath and laundry combinat                                            9.3
Sanitary cleaning station                                            3.0
Sewerage                                                             5.4
Fire brigade                                                         6.2
Social sphere                                                        106.5
TOTAL                                                                577.9
- Preparation of housing and social infrastructure facilities for the winter   10.3
period
Consolidation of dilapidated housing                                 0.4
Population                                                           595
- 67 -



Maldiak (Susuman Rayon) - actual 1999
Boiler stations                                             203.4
Water pumping stations                                      61.0
Housing maintenance                                         250.5
Electric-shop                                               15.7
Bath and laundry combinat                                   29.3
| Sanitary cleaning station                                   5.0
Sewage disposal system                                      6.1
Transportation enterprise                                   100.7
Construction shop                                           16.1
Social sphere                                               76.6
TOTAL                                                       764.3
Consolidation of dilapidated housing                        2.4
Population                                                  174
Belichan (Susuman Rayon) - 1999 actual, $ thousands
Boiler stations                                                                151.0
Bath and laundry combinat                                                      9.7
Housing maintenance                                                            320.1
Social sphere                                                                  130.2
TOTAL                                                                          610.9
- Preparation of housing and social infrastructure facilities for the winter period  9.9
Consolidation of dilapidated housing                                           0.2
Population                                                                     407
Shirokii (Susuman Rayon) - 1999, actual, $ thousands
Boiler stations                                                                 392.3
Water pumping stations                                                          20.4
Housing maintenance                                                             369.2
Electric shop                                                                   5.6
Bath and laundry combinat                                                       40.8
Sanitary cleaning station                                                       2.4
Sewage disposal system                                                          6.2
Sewerage                                                                        30.3
Transportation enterprise                                                       26.9
Social sphere                                                                   140.9
TOTAL                                                                           1,035.1
- Preparation of housing and social infrastructure facilities for the winter period    29.5
Consolidation of dilapidated housing                                            2.5
Population                                                                      1,011
Table I presents results of comparison of a reduction in actual consolidated budget expenditures on each of the social groups in the project si es and
- 68 -



an increase in respective expenditures in a model recipient region. It should be noted that this comparison has been undertaken for a specific case of
the project. In particular, the project design envisages no new housing construction in recipient regions. Hence, new residencies of out-migrants will
comprise only existing housing stock, with the whole infrastructure already attached and functioning. Consequently, the local budget in the recipient
region will bear no marginal housing and infrastructure expenditures upon resettlement Moreover, the same consideration extends to the social
infrastructure. Capacity of hospitals and schools that were erected in accordance with the size of the housing stock is underutilized in recipient regions.
Hence in-migration will cause no increase in recurrent costs (apparently, this assumption would not necessarily fit a larger-scale project, and thus will
need to be re-assessed in such case). It should also be noted that an increase in budgetary arrears is not accounted for. Hence the table shows only
actual budget savings, establishing the minimum annual benefits accrued to the enlarged budget.
Actual per capita budget expenditures on each of the targeted social groups are different among project sites. This difference is due to four factors.
First, regional coefficients are different between project sites. Second, features of each of the social groups are also different. For instance, households
belonging to the same social group are entitled to a different amount of social benefits because some of the latter depend on the length of tenure in the
North. This average length of service is different among project sites. Third, the size of budget-supported infrastructure is also very different between
project sites. And finally fourth, project sites differ by the discipline of budget payments. Hence even absolutely similar households receive different
actual payments from the budget in different project sites. Similarly, actual expenditures on maintaining infrastructure also differ.
Savings by the type of expenditures have been received on the basis of data in Tables A and B (both are presented at the end of Annex). Reduction in
per capita consolidated budget expenditures (drawn for each type of expenditures from Table A) is multiplied by the number of out-migrants, and
complemented by annual savings on maintaining infrastructure that will be shut down as a result of out-migration under the project (Table B).
'This means that an average reduction in the household income due to elimination of Northem privileges is lower for most social groups than an
average reduction in the cost of consumer basket due to lower prices in recipient regions. The only exception is working population in Susuman
region. For them reduction in the cost of life after resettlement does not suffice to compensate for reduction in salaries after elimination of the Northem
multiplier coefficient.
In fact, meetings of focus groups arranged in three project sites in the course of project preparation have demonstrated that 94 percent of potential
participants in the project would gladly participate in the scheme offered by the project.
Experience of spontaneous (and hence voluntary) migration from the North in recent years shows that slightly over 2/3 of all migrants go to the
mainland Russia. That is why in calculations we take the ratio of intra- to inter-regional migration as 30 % to 70%. Another assumption in
calculations is that unemployed intra-regional migrants remain unemployed, while unemployed inter-regional migrants get job in a recipient region.
The latter assumption is considered realistic given that inter-regional migrants will have a choice between all regions of the mainland Russia, and
hence are likely to go to a place where they will find a job.
This assumption has been made on the basis of the technical evaluation of consolidation plans developed by the authorities in three project sites.
This evaluation has been performed during the project preparation by a team of Finnish consultants hired by the World Bank. According to it, neither
economic, nor safety, nor enviromnental considerations justify in most reviewed cases more broad conservation works than just cutting off
infrastructure lines (electricity, heat, etc.) and shutting down infrastructure facilities (boilers, electrical transformers, etc.) in an appropriate manner.
Apparently, such works will not require any significant financing.
Index soc. implies the social category of a migrant (pensioner, disabled, unemployed, children, etc.)
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Given that the major part of savings quantified in the cost-benefit analysis comes from  housing
and social infrastructure consolidation, the main risk is associated with inability to achieve the
planned level of consolidation. Ability to consolidate, in turn, depends on the success in
triggering sufficient out-migration of targeted groups of population. At a 75 percent participation
rate, the project cost can be re-couped only in over a five-year period. At the participation rate
lower than 50 percent, achievement of consolidation benefits becomes problematic. However,
given results of surveys conducted during the project preparation among the targeted population,
these risks are negligible. An absolute majority would like to take an advantage of resettlement
under the suggested scheme.
- 69 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Northern Restructuring Project
Table 1. Cash Flow Summary
Nominal year                                1             2            3             4            5            6
Total savings (revenues), S thousand      0.00        17,061.31     17,061.31    17,061.31     17,061.31    17,061.31
Total expenses, $ thousand               7,545.44     3,600.00      3,600.00     3,600.00      3,600.00     3,600.00
Cash flow balance, $ thousand           -7,545.44     13,461.31     13,461.31    13,461.31     13,461.31    13,461.31
Present value of cash flow balance, $   -7,545.44     12,237.55     11,125.05    10,113.68     9,194.25     8,358.41
thousand
Cumulative present value of cash, $     -7,545.44      4,692.11     15,817.16    25,930.84     35,125.09    43,483.51
thousand
Project's NPV, S thousand               118,597.68
Payback period, years                        4.82
Nominal year                    7            8            9             10           11           12
Total savings (revenues), $ thousand   17,061.31    17,061.31    17,061.31     17,061.31    17,061.31     17,061.31
Total expenses, $ thousand        9,420.00      9,060.00     8,700.00      8,340.00     7,980.00      7,620.00
Cash flow balance, $ thousand       7,641.31     8,001.31      8,361.31     8,721.31      9,081.31     9,441.31
Present value of cash flow balance, $  4,313.32     4,105.94      3,900.61     3,698.69      3,501.24     3,309.12
thousand
Cumulative present value of cash, $   47,796.83    51,902.76     55,803.37    59,502.06     63,003.30    66,312.42
thousand                          .
Nominal year                     13-          14           15            16           17
Total savings (revenues), $ thousand    17,061.31    17,061.31     17,061.31    17,061.31     17,061.3]
Total expenses, $ thousand          7,260.00     6,900.00      6,540.00     6,180.00
Cash flow balance, S thousand        9,801.31      10,161.31    10,521.31     10,881.31    17,061.31
Present value of cash flow balance, $   3,123.00      2,943.37     2,770.59      2,604.90     3,713.04
thousand
Cumulative present value of cash, S    69,435.41     72,378.78    75,149.37     77,754.27    81,467.31
thousand
Table  1 presents cash  flow  for seventeen years of the Loan repayment period.   A  major
assumption  is that actual resettlement envisaged  under the project (including  intra-regional
resettlement of people not participating in the project, but affected by the planned consolidation of
housing and social infrastructure) will take place within a one year period.   This assumption
- 70 -



might look unrealistic. However, experience of the previous resettlement programs in the project
sites proves that, on practice, this is exactly the regular speed for such processes. To give but one
example, several settlements in the Susuman area that were suggested for participation in the
project during an identification mission in early 1999 already ceased to exist by fall of 1999, due
to a complete exodus of population.
Unlike the economic analysis, savings accounted for in calculation of cash flow take no account
either of budget overdue payables or of any changes in out-migrants well-being after resettlement.
In other words, this presents a pure financial analysis performed on the basis of actual budget
outlays. Table 1 shows that even on the pure cash basis, the project cost can be recouped in less
than five years. The payback period for the calculation, which takes into account changes in (i)
out-migrants well-being after resettlement and (ii) budget outlays on the accrual basis (i.e. for
economic analysis), is 3.07 years.
- 71 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Northern Restructuring Project
Procurement
The procurement of goods and services of the Bank financed components will be done in accordance with
the Bank's procurement guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in
January 1995 including all revisions up to January 1999 and Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999. The project
activities not financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with national regulations and donor
agency regulations acceptable to the Bank. The project elements, their estimated cost and procuremnent
methods are summarized in Table A. The procurement capacity assessment of the implementing agency
was completed during the appraisal mission. It is on file with the RPA's Office. The conclusion of this
assessment is that the Non-Commercial Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institutions
Development, because of its extensive experience in administering Bank-financed projects, has the capacity
to implement all Bank-specified procedures and requirements relating to the procurement oi; as
appropriate, Loan-financed goods, works and/or consultant services.  Project-specific procureinent
information, estimated dates for publication of GPN, etc. and the Bank's review process are fuither
described below. The identified Northern Restructuring Project PIU procurement office will use relevant
Bank standard procurement documentation and administer procurement actions in accordance with the
FER's Bank-accepted, computerized tracking and record-keeping system.
1. Procurement of Civil Works
Civil Works (US$5.06 million) under the project are to be financed by the local administrations in the
participating regions. Regional participants will use established, competitive selection public sector
procedures, which will be summarized in the Project Operations Manual and will be subject to Bank
acceptance, for the procurement of renovation services and consolidation and/or demolition works.
2. Procurement of Goods
Goods (approx. US$0.215 million) consisting of minor office equipment, publications and supplies
(including those under incremental operating costs) will be grouped to the extent possible and considering
project objectives, in package sizes that will encourage competitive bidding. The following method3 of
procurement will be followed:
(i) National Shopping (NS) procedures will be used for small contracts valued under US$50,300
each up to an aggregate amount of US$0.2 million. Contract award(s) will be based on
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least qualified three suppliers to assure
competitive prices.
(ii) Direct Contracting (DC) procedures will be used for the production of Migration Assistance
Certificates, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.015 million. The certificates will be official
documents of the Ministry of Finance with appropriate currency-type security features. Only one
supplier in Russia is certified and available for this production.
- 72 -



3. Selection Procedures for Services
Contracts for Consulting Services required for the Project will be awarded following the World Bank
Guidelines "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997,
revised September 1997 and January 1999. Contracts will be packaged to include a combination of related
skills and services, in order to make them attractive and increase competition as well as to reduce the
number of contracts to be managed by the PIU. The following methods of procurement will be followed:
(i) Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures will be used for eight consulting
services and training contracts, up to an aggregate amount of US$3.08 million equivalent.
(ii) Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications (CQ) procedures will be used for two
consulting services and training contracts, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.20 million
equivalent.
(iii) Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedures will be used for auditing services, up to an aggregate
amount of US$0.20 million equivalent.
(iv) Individual Consultants will be hired under Section V of the Guidelines up to an aggregate
amount of $1.05 million equivalent.
(v) Consultant services engaged under competitive selection and initially financed under the
Portfolio Development Loan may, if the initial solicitation has so indicated and performnance has
been satisfactory, be continued and financed under separate contract(s) by the NRP Loan following
its effectiveness, up to an aggregate amount of $1.27 million. [See footnote to Table "A
Procurement Methods.]
4. Notification of Business Opportunities
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in "Development Business" and will be updated
annually. For consultants' contracts above US$200,000. Specific Procurement Notices/Requests for
Expression of Interest will be advertised in "Development Business" (in the English Language) and in a
suitable local newspaper.
5. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Scheduling of Procurement. Procurement of goods and services for the project will be carried out in
accordance with the agreed procurement plan included in the Operations Manual. This plan will be
updated as necessary and included in the periodic project management reports for Bank review and
comment.
6.     Summary of Procurement Capacity
The Non-Commercial Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institutions Development
(FER), the Ministry of Finance's designated implementation agency for the Northern Restructuring Project,
has a significant history of capable implementation administration across several Bank-financed loans. The
FER has developed and/or installed documentation and procurement procedures tracking software that
allows the FER Procurement Department to monitor required procurement procedures and the contracting
and implementation of loan-financed goods, works, consultant services and, as appropriate, operations
- 73 -



expenses transactions. Of all Russian Federation project implementation / services units developed to date,
the FER is viewed as among the most experienced and capable. The envisioned NRP activities nevertieless
represent a potentially bold departure from projects to date, in that some activities will be taking place in
very remote and difficult regions, and will be in part implemented by entities new to the processes dictated
by Bank financing. The Loan is thus a "pilot" activity to determnine whether different administrative and
financial approaches can be more effective at helping Northem residents migrate to more suitable locations
and help government entities reduce the excessive cost of supporting infrastructure and services in the
Federation's Far North.  The experimental nature of this "pilot", coupled with uncertainties c f the
Federation's marketplace, dictate that -- although the FER has demonstrated its capacity to well perform
functions required under Loan administration - the risk of the Project is "High" with regard to the general
environment, but "Average" with respect to implementation administration.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
E-xpenditure Category             1GB              NCB           Other'        N.S.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                              0.00             0.00           0.00           5.06         5.06
___________________________       (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                              0.00             0.00           0.14           0.00        0.14
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.12)        (0.00)       (0.12)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00           5.80           0.00         5.80
(0.00)           (0.00)         (4.93)        (0.00)       (4.93)
4. Migration Assistance               0.00             0.00           69.28          6.55        75.83
Allowances
(0.00)           (0.00)        (69.28)        (0.00)      (69.28)
5. Front-end fee                      0.00             0.00           0.80           0.00         0.80
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.80)        (0.00)       (0.80)
6. Incremental Operating              0.00             0.00           6.24           0.00         6.24
Costs3                               (0.00)            (0.00)         (4.87)        (0.00)       (4.87)
Total                              0.00             0.00           82.26          11.61       93.87
(0.00)           (0.00)        (80.00)        (0.00)       (80.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes goods to be procured through international shopping, national shopping, consulting services,
services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and
incremental operating costs related to managing the project.
3/ In cases where the PIU/implementing agents make purchases of miscellaneous office supplies, etc., the
purchasing entity shall use national shopping procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
4/ The above table does not include project-related goods and services to be financed by the Portfolio Development
Loan ($1.37 million). These goods and services will be procured under the relevant Bank Consultant Guidelines
(1981) and the procurement plan approved by the Bank as part of the PDL-NRP sub-grant agreement.
Solicitations for these services will indicate the possibility that the Consultant(s) will, subject to adequate
performance and the following effectiveness of the NRP Loan, be eligible to continue defined services beyond E n,
e.g., Phase I, on a sole-source basis, but funded under a separate contract financed by the NRP Loan.
- 74 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
SeJection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category   QCBS   QaS    SF8    LeS        CQ     Other   N.B.F.  Total Cose
A. Firms              3.08    0.00    0.00    0.20      0.20    1.27    0.00      4.75
(2.62)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.17)   (0.17)   (1.08)  (0.00)   (4.04)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    1.05    0.00      1.05
___________________   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.89)  (0.00)   (0.89)
Total  3.08    0.00    0.00    0.20     0.20    2.32    0.00      5.80
, (2.62)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.17)   (0.17)   (1.97)  (0.00)   (4.93)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Other = These funds represent the contingent (and sole-source) continuation of initial consulting
services (under new, NRP Loan-financed contracts) that were competitively awarded and
contracted under the supporting PDL Project (firms), and the selection of individual consultants
financed under the NRP Loan (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines) [See also Footnote 4 of
Table "A'.]
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 75 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
(i) Goods: Prior review of bidding documents, including review of evaluation, recornmendation of award
and contract will be conducted for any ICB procedures, direct contracting and the first two contracts under
National Shopping regardless of their value.
(ii) Consulting Services: Terms of reference, projected budgets and proposed procurement method for all
consulting and training assignments will be subject to prior Bank review. Request for Proposals (PFP),
short lists, termDs and conditions of contracts, evaluation reports and recommendation for award, and
negotiated contracts will be prior reviewed by the Bank for contracts for individual consultants above
$50,000 equivalent and firms above $100,000 equivalent and/or amendments which, respectively, raise
base contracts above these levels. All documents, recommendations involving sole source contracting and
"reasonableness of price" will be subject to Bank prior review.
After award of contract, should any material modifications of specifications or terms of reference or wliver
of terms and conditions of a contract, and/or contract ceiling proposed to increase above 15% o the
original amount, the Bank will reserve the right to prior review of such modifications (inclt ding
modifications to contracts for consulting services).
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                 Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement               Prior Review
Expenditure Category                                   Metho1                 (US$ mil ions)
1. Works                         n.a.                     n.a.                      n.a.
2. Goods                   above US$100,000            ICB/DC (1)              $0.015 million
$50000 - $100,000    International Shopping - n.a.      n.a.
below $50,000        National Shopping (3)        $0.13 million
3. Services              Firms: above $100,000          QCBS (8)                $3.08 million
Individuals: above $50,000  Individual (several)        $1.05 million
4. Services (financing   Firms: above $200,000          QCBS (2)                $1.27 million
shared   w ith   PDL)__    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: $5.54 million (77% of
total procurement)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
While the overall procurement risk assessment is rated as "High" this is attributed to the general
environment in Russia and the pilot nature of this project. It is noted that the risk is rated as "Average"
with respect to implementation administration.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 76 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
It is expected that the proceeds of the loan will be disbursed over a period of five years, which includes six
months for completion of accounts and submission for withdrawal applications. This schedule is shorter
than most for Russia and ECA projects, it is based on the projected disbursements for Migration Assistance
Allowances over two migration periods in the summers of 2002 and 2003. It also takes into account the
time needed after migration for the closure and demolition of buildings. The project completion date is
estimated to be March 31, 2004 and the closing date is estimated to be September 30, 2005.
Table C below sets for the allocation of loan proceeds. In addition to the loan and counterpart funds, a
sub-loan of $1.37 million from the Portfolio Development Loan (PDL) is expected to cover
pre-implementation costs prior to loan effectiveness. This financing is crucial in order for key activities
related to establishment of LPIUs and the public awareness campaign in order for the Migration Assistance
Program to begin in a timely fashion prior to the application campaign. The PDL sub-loan will cover the
cost of equipment for the LPIUs, training of LPIU staff, technical assistance for part of the development of
the information system and the pubic awareness campaign.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in USSmillion          Financing Percentage
1. Goods                                    0.06           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
83% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
2. Consulting Services and Training         3.74                          100%
3. Migration Assistance Allowances                                        100%
3(a) Vorkuta City                           16.38
3(b) Norilsk City                           38.05
3(c) Susuman District                       14.85
4. Incremental Operating Costs                                            100%
4(a) in support of FER                      3.92
4(b) in support of LPIUs                     1.73
5. Unallocated                              0.47
Total Project Costs                         79.20
Front-end fee         0.80
Total                                       80.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Some of the proceeds of the loan are expected to be disbursed on the basis of Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs) as follows: (a) goods costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (b) services for contracts
for (i) individuals costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (ii) firms costing less than US$100,000
equivalent each; (c) incremental operating costs. Disbursements against goods and services exceeding the
above limits would be made against full documentation and respective procurement guidelines.
- 77 -



SOE procedures will also be used for the reimbursement of expenditures made for Migration Assistance
Allowances. The Loan Agreement specifies the special procedures that will apply to the withdrawval of
funds under Categories 3(a), 3(b) and 3(c) above. There are two special forms for the SOE withcfawal
applications for these categories:
*   Withdrawal applications (requesting reimbursement in US dollars) received by the Mo;,cow
Country Office of the World Bank within 120 days of the value date as defined in Section 1.02(w)
of the Loan Agreement;
*   Withdrawal application (requesting reimbursement for the US Dollar equivalent of a stated
Russian ruble amount) received by the Bank outside the 120 day period of the value date.
Each withdrawal application covering expenditures related to the Migration Assistance Allowances needs
to be supported by the following detailed statement:
*   The date when the certificate was submitted by the migrant to Sberbank of Russia in the
destination region;
*   The name of the migrant;
*   The nominal dollar value of the certificate;
*   The exchange rate applied by Sberbank on the value date;
*   The Ruble amount deposited by the Federal Treasury to the migrant's designated account.
SOEs will be certified locally by the PIU. Related documentation in support of SOEs will not be submitted
to the Bank, but will be retained by the PIU for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the zudit
report for the year in which the last disbursement is made. This documentation will be made available for
review by the auditors and Bank supervision missions and/or program  evaluators.  If ineligible
expenditures, including those not justified by the evidence furnished, or amounts in excess of agreed
disbursement percentages are financed from the Special Accounts (SA), the Bank will have the right to
withhold further deposits in the SA. The Bank may exercise this right until the Borrower has: (a) refurded
the amounts involved, or (b) (if the Bank agrees) submitted evidence of other eligible expenditures that the
Bank can accept to offset the ineligible amounts.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower would establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US Dollars in a commercial bank, acceptable to
the Bank. During the early stage of the project, the initial aggregate authorized allocation of the Special
Account will be limited to US$500,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the loan have
reached $4.0 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to an authorized allocation of $1.0 mil.ion
by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal. The minimum amount of each application for
expenditures from Categories 1,2 and 4 is 20% of the authorized allocation. Application size for
expenditures under Category 3 is not restricted. Replenishment applications should be submitted at least
every three months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting
documents.
The Borrower will be responsible for the appropriate accounting of the funds provided by the Bank urder
the Loan, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring that audits of the financial statement. or
reports are submitted to the Bank. A computerized accounting system is being established at the PIU. The
Financial and Accounting Department of the PIU will maintain consolidated accounts for the project mnd
will prepare quarterly financial reports as part of PMRs.
- 78 -



Summary of the financial management capacity assessment
Executive Summary
The Northern Restructuring Project is being implemented on behalf of the Borrower, by the Foundation for
Enterprise Restructuring (FER). The project has been designed to effectively assist three northern pilot
regions in the areas of restructuring to reduce regional operating costs and to assist their residents with
voluntary relocation assistance. The challenge of designing the project to meet the varied requirements of
the migrant, the pilot region and the governmental bodies has been a daunting task.
With respect to the Financial Management areas, a main feature of the project has been designed to provide
the migrant with a certificate, which is valued in dollars, that hedges against valuation risks during the
period of migration. These certificates will assist the migrant to relocate, and by use of the Sberbank
network, ensure the certificate will be honored at any location in the Russian Federation. The controls of
the project have been designed to ensure the funds are paid to the migrant in a very timely manner, while at
the same time, ensuring against misuse or fraud.
The financial management unit of the PIU is staffed by very competent and experienced staff, and is guided
by a very thorough and clear Operations Manual, which covers both project and general PIU issues.
Reporting and audit requirements are clearly detailed with adequate Project and Entity statements prepared
in accordance with Bank guidelines and directives.
In conclusion, based on the assessment of the Project and FER as the implementing agency, the project
meets the Bank's financial management requirements.
Country Issues
The financial management capacity within the Russian Federation is currently the subject of a Country
Financial Accountability Assessment which will be completed in FY2001. Primarily because of other
implementation considerations, any weaknesses that may exist in the financial management capacity in
Russia have been mitigated for this project, by the use of an existing Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for
project implementation. An agency agreement has been signed by the Borrower and the Foundation for
Enterprise Restructuring (FER), assigning FER the role and responsibility to act as the implementing
agency. As detailed in the Project design and flow of funds descriptions, this Project utilizes the resources
of Treasury of the Russian Federation to act as a financial internediary between IBRD and Sberbank. The
review of Treasury with respect to reporting and auditing, required additional steps and reconciliations to
be undertaken by PIU, so as to ensure adequate reporting, control and audit.
The use of this experienced PIU is especially important with respect to financial management issues and
risks, drawing on its experience on successfully implementing other projects. The auditors, who are
selected from the list of auditors eligible to conduct Bank audits, have issues unqualified opinions each year
and have raised no material weaknesses or concerns regarding the operations and internal controls. The
PIU is in process of strengthening its financial management capacity through overall integration and
computerization of accounting systems.
Summary Project Description
(For additional background information please see sections B and C in the main text of this document)
- 79 -



The Northern Restructuring Project will facilitate the Government's goal to create a viable economy in the
North, and to create the fiscal and financial conditions for long term institutional reforms. Key nort'lern
policy and institutional reforms presume the solving of several interrelated tasks, which take into
consideration the main goals of economic transformations together with rational government support of the
North.
*   Reforming of methods and forms of State Northern policy, through legislative changes;
*   Restructuring of the economy of the Northern regions and increasing the viability of it's basic
enterprises and cities;
*   Reforming of migration support programs by the formation of new, flexible, affordable budget
programs; ensuring the maximum economic effect, based on motivation of population for migration
and on free choice of a new settlement; legalization of inter-regional migration programs;
* State regulation of northern labor markets - though the support of migration, as a resul- of
out-migration of disabled and unemployed population program implementation; transitior. to
contract employment of all new budget and non-budget sector employees; utilization of shift team
method of labor organization and restructuring of the existing settling system; development and
introduction of off-budget mechanisms for return to the "main" land;
*   Transformation of existing system of northern benefits and compensations into a market system
based on the realities of the current economy, including complete abolishing of state guarantees for
non-budget sector employees.
Under the Project an efficient scheme of assistance to migration that will ensure a voluntary migration md
a free choice by a migrant of a new place of residence will be implemented. Simultaneously the Project will
assist the economic restructuring of the pilot regions through implementation of jointly developed plan, in
conformity with each specific region plans of local restructuring; together with the creation of conditions
for implementation of pending institutional transformations in municipal economic policy. In addition the
Project should contribute to the decrease of social tension in the regions.
The main Project goals are the decrease of Government expenditures in the North, reduction in the amount
of socially vulnerable categories of population, and assistance to labor mobility. The project is of a pi lot
nature, and the migration assistance schemes developed and tested under the Project should be applicable
for the other northem territories. The Project implementation should contribute to reduction of artificial
attractiveness of the northem territories and allow for sustainable and long term project outcomes.
The Northern Restructuring Project, which seeks to provide overall migration assistance to over 8,000
households, consists of five components:
1)    Migration Assistance Component;
2)     Local Restructuring Component;
3)     Federal Policy Component;
4)     Monitoring and Evaluation Component;
5)     Project Management Component.
- 80 -



Oversight and accountability arrangements.
The Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institutions Development (FER) is a
non-commercial, non-profit foundation founded in July 1996. Presently, the founders are Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, Ministry of Industry Science and Technology,
Central Bank of Russia, Ministry of Transport, Leontief Center Foundation of Housing Reform, State
Committee for Construction, as well as Agency of Restructuring of Credit Organizations. FER is
implementing agency for MOF for four on-going Bank projects namely, Financial Institution Development
Project, Enterprise Support Project, Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project, and Regional Fiscal Technical
Assistance Project, as well as a new project, the Forestry Sustainable Project, which is targeted to be
effective by the end of 2001. In addition to this project presently under preparation, FER is leading the
planning and preparation of the Treasury System Modemization Project.
Govemance over the FER's activities is through the Foundation Board which is a supervisory body
consisting of fourteen members headed by two Co-Chairpersons (First Deputy Minister of Industry Science
and Technology, and Deputy Chairman of the Central Bank of Russia) with support of Executive Secretary
of the Board. Board meetings are conducted annually or more frequently as required. Minutes are kept for
all the meetings. The main functions of the Board are to approve:
? changes to the Charter
- major restructuring of activities
* the annual budget
e changes to the organizational structure and staffing (salaries)
3   the annual report of FER including audited financial statements
3   the structure and composition of Project Management Committees (PMC's)
At the Federal level the preparation and implementation of the project is overseen by Inter-Ministerial
Working Group (IMWG) which acts as Project Management Committee of FER. The IMWG reports to
the Deputy Prime Minister and includes representatives from the Ministry of Economic Development and
Trade, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labor and Social Development, State Committee for Construction,
Ministry of Federation, Nationality and Migration Policy, the Government Apparat, and the Federal Center
for Project Finance. The IMWG meets regularly, with frequency dependent on the amount of project
activity. The functions of the Committee are to:
*   define project objectives and activities
* approve project activities budgets and work plans
* resolve project implementation issues
*   define sources of project finance
*   approve project participating entities, sub-borrowers etc.
*   form contract evaluation committees
*   approve Project Directors
The Project Director reports regularly to the IMWG on project implementation.
The procedure of coordination between FER, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, and the
Ministry of Finance is defined in the Agency Agreement concluded between the above mentioned parties.
According to this agreement, FER is entrusted with the target utilization of the IBRD loan proceeds and
- 81 -



implementation of the complex activities under the Project implementation. The agency agreement deJines
the status, functions, authorities, reporting, and the fiduciary issues of procurement and financial
management.
At the local level, overall management of the Project implementation is performed according to the Prnject
Implementation Agreement, by the Coordination/Supervisory Councils and will comprise of key
stakeholders including representatives of the local administration, local legislators, major employers, major
labor unions, and representatives from the settlement to be closed. Day to day management of Project
implementation is performed by Local Project Implementation Units (LPIUs). Appeals committees will be
established in each of the pilot territories to consider questions, complaints, and claims related to the
Project implementation. Local administrations and regional executive authorities of the pilot territories will
assist as well in the implementation of the project.
Regulations and Procedures.
The activities of FER are regulated by national laws and Bank rules and procedures. The Operations
Manual, approved by the IMWG, provides clear definitions and instructions on the FER organizational
structure, functions of its management bodies, responsibilities of FER departments, job descriptions of
staff, employment policy, budgeting accounting procedures, reporting requirements and auditing.
The Operations Manual for implementation of Northern Restructuring Project includes implementation
regulations which address the areas of project description, project management systems, finanzial
procedures, implementation arrangements, reporting requirements and procurement procedures at the
municipal level.
Additional to the Operations Manual, are Instructions on Project Implementation, specifically tailored for
each of the project municipalities. These instructions, which will be adopted by the administrations of each
pilot territory, detail:
*   Legal structure
*   Organizational and implementation requirements
*   Monitoring
*   Financing and use of loan funds
*   Budgeting
*   Reporting
*   Documentation
*   Audit
*   General liability
Project Participant Agreements
The successful implementation of the project depends very much on the coordination of all proj-.ct
participants and not only operations of Federal PIU. Local PIUs will be established in three participating
regions. Operations Manuals and Instructions for each of the project sites will serve as a guidelines for ihe
operations of Local PIUs.
It has been evident that there has been good interaction is and cooperation between all Russian stakeholders
including the Federal Treasury, the Regional Treasuries, Sberbank of the Russian Federation, Branches of
- 82 -



Sberbank, FER, local administrations and migrants.
The Russian Federation issued a decree on the Government Program on Assistance of Migration, giving
overall direction and support for this project.
The following agreements have been reached between the key stakeholders:
*   Agreement between MOF and Sberbank for processing and payment of certificates;
* Implementation Agreements between project municipalities, MOF and FER.
* Agency Agreement between MOF and FER
Status of integration offinancial management systems in FER.
The process of integration of project accounting systems and entity accounting systems is underway in
FER. After implementation the computerized accounting system will support:
* Project accounting and reporting in accordance with World Bank requirements (PMR part 1,
financial statements);
* Statutory accounting and reporting;
* Preparation of FER financial statements compliant with International Accounting Standards.
The FER has undertaken steps to upgrade and strengthen the financial management system to handle
multiple projects. The present system, while adequate in technical accounting aspects, does not fully
integrate all project and entity accounting together with disbursement and reporting functions. The process
to completely integrate the financial management system has proceeded in the following three stages:
1.    Methodology update - Deloitte and Touche consultants were hired in the fall of 1999 to review and
upgrade methodology. As of August 10, 2000, the financial management consultant completed the
preparation of methodological instructions on integration of three systems. The following documents are
presented as part of the report: Charts of Accounts (project, RAS, IAS), mapping between RAS and IAS
Charts of Accounts and all accounts related to the projects, standard accounting entries and procedures,
recommended major project accounting transactions, forms for preparation of financial statements required
by International Accounting Standards. In November 2000, the Russian Federation issued a new Chart of
Accounts, requiring additional steps to bring the system into compliance with this new decree. This
additional step has been completed and the new Chart of Accounts has been adopted by FER.
2.    Implementation - FER has selected Platinum software and the software firm has been integrating
the methodology into the financial management system. This task will be completed shortly allowing ample
time for the third phase.
3.     Testing - While continuing to use the present financial management system, the final stage will be
the testing of the fully integrated financial system. The testing will require running dual systems and will
allow for comparison and correction, as well as a proper training and orientation period. This testing will
be undertaken during the third and fourth quarters of the year, and is a key step to ensure a smooth
transition to the new system on January 1, 2002.
The current assessment of the progress of FER in integration of the financial management systems,
demonstrate the completeness and adequacy of the plan, thus serving as a basis for the conclusion that there
will be a successful completion of this important task.
- 83 -



Financial Management Staffing.
The financial management staffing is clearly detailed and described together with flowcharts and terms of
references for each staff member, in the Operations Manual. There are two separate divisions within FER
which deal with the financial issues, the first being the Finance department and the second bein; the
Accounting department. The heads of each department report to the Director of the PIU.
The Finance department is responsible for project specific areas including disbursement and pioject
reporting. This department will hire consultants to work in each LPIU, to act as the finance coordinator.
These consultants will report to the Director of Finance.
The Accounting department is responsible for all accounting and reporting functions for the entity and is
under the direction of the Chief Accountant. This department is guided by a very detailed section within
the Operations Manual with respect to intemal control issues.
The staff of these two departments are highly educated, experienced and are exemplary in their
performance of duties.
Project Flow of Funds.
The flow of funds is detailed in Section 6 of the Operations Manual and is attached as Annex 14 tc this
report. The outline of the Section is a follows:
Section 6.1 - The scheme of funds and document flows in connection with housing allowances
Section 6.2 - The scheme of funds and documents flows in connection with the transportation
subsidy provided to participants from the Susuman district.
Section 6.3 - The financing of LPIU costs from Loan proceeds.
Section 6.4 - The arrangements for counterpart funding by the pilot territories.
During the appraisal of the project, the project team and the Government worked to develop a finalcial
flow mechanism to allow funds to be disbursed from the loan to the migrant when the housing certificate
was presented. Given that the migrants will have free choice of movement it is essential that a nationwide
network be used. Sberbank is the only viable option for these purposes and therefore discussions took
place with the management of Sberbank, which also handled the transactions for the housing certificate
program for retired military officers. Therefore the team designed a Migration Assistance Fund whereby
loan funds would be deposited at the time certificates were issued and funds would be channeled through
Sberbank to its local branch and into a special account of the migrant.
However, another issue was the timing of the funds. In Russia, housing contracts are almost all paid a: the
time of sale or the contract specifies a 30-day period for payment. It was assumed that the migrants would
have to use 30-day delayed payment contracts under the program. In discussions during the appraisal
mission, concerns were raised about the length of time it would take to make the payments througl the
proposed MAF mechanism and the potential risk of payments not being made within the 30-day contract
period. Therefore, the project team requested the Government to investigate this issue further to assess if it
would be a problem for the project. The option of channeling loan funds through the Federal Treasury
- 84 -



system to the local Sberbank branch was also discussed. As a condition of negotiations, the Government
was asked to agree with the Treasury on the financial flow mechanism based on the outcome of the timing
assessment.
The assessment showed that there were severe risks that the funds could not be disbursed from the
Migration Assistance Fund and reach the account of the migrant in time to make payment on the housing
contracts. This jeopardized the implementation and feasibility of the project. The Government also
reviewed in more detail the process used for the military housing certificates and found that because this
program was financed with budget funds the money was made available from the local branch of the
Federal Treasury to the local Sberbank branch and was then reimbursed from the Federal Treasury. This
process allowed the funds to be available in the needed time. Therefore, the Government project team
discussed with the Ministry of Finance and Federal Treasury the possibility of doing a similar process for
the project whereby the Federal Treasury would be reimbursed from the loan. Just prior to negotiations,
the Ministry of Finance and Federal Treasury officials agreed to this proposal and it was presented to the
Bank as fulfillment of the condition of negotiations.
While the Bank welcomed the results of the assessment and the proposed solution, it raised issues with
regard to the Govermnent's accounting system in the Federal Treasury and the accounting difficulties that
the Bank's standard disbursement policies would cause. The issues are also related to the fact that the
certificates are to be denominated in USD so that the migrant is protected from devaluation in the local
currency during the 9-12 month validity period of the certificate. The local currency value is determined on
the day the certificate is presented to the local Sberbank office by the migrant and the funds are deposited
into the migrants account in local currency.
When the Bank explained the normal disbursement procedures that would apply, two policies were raised
as problems for the Government: (i) according to Section 4.01 of the General Conditions, the Bank would
reimburse the Borrower in the currency in which the expenditure was made, which in this case would be
Russian Rubles (RUR); (ii) the Bank would apply the exchange rate prevailing at the time of
reimbursement. This raised the following problems for the Ministry of Finance's accounting:
1.    The Treasury department of the Ministry of Finance will open two account numbers, the first to
record the payment amount to Sberbank and the second to record the reimbursement of the advanced funds
from the Bank. These two accounts will of course be in rubles, and should be offsetting at the end of the
Project.
2.     Treasury concerns are that if the two accounts are not offsetting and reconcilable, there are
implications regarding the expenditure budget, the internal control systems, legislative and operative
regulations, and the subsequent review by the Accounts Chamber.
3.     At each stage of management and monitoring, exchange rate differences would arise leading to debt
management problems and constraints for the foreign currency planning that is being done by MOF on a
monthly, quarterly and annual basis. Given that there are expected to be about 10,000 certificates under
the project and treasury accounting is performed for every certificate, the management process for the
Treasury is complicated. As it is done manually, it would require additional staff to be hired by MOF
especially for this purpose.
4.     The practical solution proposed by MOF is to have the reimbursement from the Bank equal, in
ruble amounts, the advances to Sberbank, thus avoiding an expenditure or revenue possibility and all the
resultant problems that follow.
5.    It is impossible for the Bank to have the Project audit extend to cover the two Treasury accounts,
therefore a reconciliation of these accounts will be part of the Project internal control system and reports.
The Project will reconcile, on a monthly basis, the amounts advanced by Treasury with the amounts
- 85 -



reimbursed by the Bank There can be no reliance on the work of the Accounts Chamber as a Supreme
Audit Institution, as it is more politically focused and documentation audit orientated.
6.     At present, the Bank is in the process of a Country Financial Accountability Assessment, ard the
issues related to the Treasury malfunction and the Accounts Chamber ineffectiveness are key areas cf this
review. The CFAA will include direct recommendations to remedy these weaknesses. It is thought that the
Bank would include assistance to implement these recommendations in the CAS which will be presenred to
the Board in FY02.
7.     Given the uniqueness of the Project and the flow of funds as detailed above, several key steps were
introduced to mitigate risks: I)mitigate risks to the migrant by denominating the certificates in dollars; 2)
the use of Sberbank and Treasury mitigate the risks of funding delays; 3) by ring-fencing the Project with
proper internal controls procedures and reports, mitigate the risk of funds diversion.
The use of a Special Account was discussed as an alternative mechanism to repay the Federal Treasury.
However, there is a formal prohibition on disbursing funds in foreign currencies from Special Accounts to
third parties in the absence of the export contracts and license from the Central Bank. In the case of this
project, there are no formal reasons for receiving such a license.
Therefore, in order to avoid these problems, the Borrower requested the Bank to reimburse the payments
for Migration Assistance Allowances in USD and using the same exchange rate as the Value Date (the date
when the migrant submits the certificate to Sberbank and the RUR value is determined). Thes- are
exceptions for this project only and it is expected that the recommendation of the CFAA and assistance to
implement these recommendations would eliminate such problems in the Federal Treasury.
After exhaustive discussions, the following exceptions were granted by the Bank:
*   The Bank will reimburse the Borrower in USD for the expenditures made by the Federal Treasury
in local currency for the migration assistance allowances; and
*   For the purposes of the reimbursement, the Bank will use the historical exchange rate (as cf the
date when the migrant redeems the certificate and the ruble amount is determined) as the bas s for
determining the value of the eligible expenditure to be reimbursed.
In response to the Bank's requests, the Borrower has agreed to the following reimbursement requireme its:
*   Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) presented to the Bank will state, for each migration assistance
allowance paid: (i) the date when the certificate was redeemed by the migrant at the savings bank
(Sberbank) to open the special blocked account (value date); (ii) the nominal US dollar amount of
the certificate; (iii) the exchange rate of the Central Bank of Russia applied by Sberbank oi the
value date; and (iv) the ruble amount deposited by the Federal Treasury in the migrant's blocked
account.
* SOEs are, as a rule, to be submitted monthly.
*   The time between the value date and the receipt of the withdrawal application by the Bank shall be
no greater than 120 days, or the reimbursement will be done on the basis of the exchange rate at
the time of reimbursement (following BP12.00 - Annex A).
- 86 -



Auditing Arrangements.
The project financial statements will be audited by independent private auditor acceptable to the Bank. The
audit will be performed in accordance with International Standards on Auditing. The preparation of project
financial statements including appropriate disclosures, is the responsibility of FER. The Local PIU will
provide FER with all supporting documentation regarding the project expenditures. The terms of reference
for the project audit have been approved by the Bank.
In addition to the project audit, FER's Balance Sheet, Income statement and Cash flow Statement prepared
in accordance with IAS will be audited on annual basis by the same auditor.
As it was agreed under other projects recently assessed, a single auditor will be used for the audit of all
projects implemented by FER. The auditors have for previous years, submitted unqualified (clean) audit
opinions, and have not raised any issues of material weaknesses or ineligible expenditures.
Risk Assessment.
During the design of the project, considerable time and emphasis has been placed on minimizing all project
risks. The use of an established and superbly functioning PIU was a key factor, and the expertise of staff
in implementing IBRD projects cannot be over-emphasized.
The section detailing the Project flow of funds, details the agreements reached with respect to payments and
reporting. Two specific reconciliation reports will be prepared monthly:
*   Reconciliation of Housing Certificates - summarizes the amount of certificates issued and
approved by the MOF; amount of certificates redeemed by Sberbank; amount of certificates
cancelled; amount of certificates outstanding.
*   Reconciliation for Treasury Expenditures - summarizes the ruble amount transferred by Treasury
to Sberbank; the ruble amount reimbursed by the Bank in USD; the ruble amount reimbursed by
the Bank in rubles; Outstanding reimbursement to Sberbank.
FER has developed a comprehensive database which will be a key part of the migrant management system,
and this database will provide key information for reconciliation and control purposes.
The risk that any Local Restructuring Plan will be amended or repealed so to affect the municipality from
carrying out its obligations under the Project has been covered by the right detailed in the Loan Agreement,
which gives the Bank the right to suspend disbursements should such situations happen.
The Internal Control system of the PIU with respect to the disbursement and accounting functions, is very
adequate and complete. Given the size of FER, there are clear and correct segregation of duties, approval
and authorization requirements, reconciliation requirements and review duties.
An important aspect with respect to intemal control at the LPIU, is the use of an consultant specialist, hired
by FER and reporting to the FER Director of Finance. These financial specialists will work full time at the
LPIUs and act as the coordinator for the all financial aspects of the project including monitoring, reporting,
and verification. This consultant will work closely with the LPIU Chief Accountant. Terms of reference
for both positions are detailed in the Operations Manual.
- 87 -



Action Plan on strengthening financial management capacity of the project.
The following action plan was developed in agreement with the Borrower and details the actions reqaired,
the responsible parties, the deadlines for completion of the actions, and the current status of each item.
Action                                 Responsible Party      Completed By        Stat .s
1. Draft Operations manual                   FER              Negotiations      Completed
2. Draft Implementation Agreements                            Negotiations
(agreed with MOF, project municipalities    Project participants                Completed
and other parties)
3. Operations manual adopted in the
form and content acceptable to the Bank      FER                 Board          Completed
by IMWG
4. TOR for project audit agreed with the     FER                 Board          Completed
Bank
5. Agreement on housing certificate
processing acceptable to the Bank,      MOF, Sberbank         Effectiveness
executed between borrower and
Sberbank
Action item #5 is included as a condition of effectiveness in the Loan Agreement. Article VI, Sectior. 6.01
(d) states "an agreement on housing certificate processing, satisfactory to the Bank, has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and Sberbank".
Conclusion.
The conclusion is that FER has adequate financial management capacity to implement the project and
that the project will meet minimum financial management requirements as outlined in the Bank's
directive BP 10.02.
- 88 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Northern Restructuring Project
Project Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
PCD Schedule        _
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       18
First Bank mission (identification)              11/01/98                     11/01/98
Appraisal mission departure                      09/06/99                     05/22/2000
Negotiations                                     10/25/99                     04/06/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/01/2001
Prepared by:
Inter-Agency Working Group of the Russian Government with assistance from Project Preparation Unit in
the Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institutions Development
Preparation assistance:
Federal Center for Project Finance Grant ($830,000)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Andrei Markov                     Former Team Leader, Sr. Human Development Specialist
Hjalte Sederlof                   Current Team Leader, Principal Operations Officer
Kathryn Dahlmeier                 Operations Analyst
Alexander Tretyakov               Research Analyst
Vladimir Drebentsov               Economist
Anastassia Alexandrova            Operations Officer
Stan Peabody                      Principal Social Scientist
Timothy Heleniak                  Demographer
Frank Kenefick                    Procurement Specialist
Irina Kichigina                   Sr. Counsel
Jonathan Pavluk                   Sr. Counsel
Cliff Isaak                       Financial Management Specialist
Andrew Mackie                     Division Chief, LOAGl
David Freese                      Disbursement Officer
Peer Reviewers:
Mark Sundberg                     Sr. Economist, SASPR
Maninder Gill                     Sociologist, SDV
Ashraf Ghani                      Principal Anthropologist, SDV
- 89 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Northern Restructuring Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
*   Draft Project Implementation Plan prepared by the Government of Russian Federation with assistnce
from Foundation for Economic Restructuring and Financial Institution Development, December 1999
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*   Economic and Social Issues of Migration from the North (ESW)
*   Migration from the Russian North During the Transition Period (SP Discussion Paper)
*   Financial Management Capacity Assessment
*   Procurement Capacity Assessment
C. Other
* Concept Paper on the Northern Restructuring Pilot Project, Extract from Protocol #2 of the meeting of
the Inter-Agency Commission of the Russian Federation on Cooperation with International Financial
and Economic Institutions (September 22, 1999)
-   Housing and Infrastructure Consolidation Study - Norilsk
*   Housing and Infrastructure Consolidation Study - Vorkuta
*   Economic Analysis
*   Housing Cost Review
* Social Assessment
*   Focus Group Results
*   Evaluation of the Housing Certificate Option of Assisting Retired Russian Officers Obtain Housing,
Clare Romanik and Raymond J. Struck, the Urban Institute, June 1995
*   Migration from the Russian North: Profile, mechanisms of migration and adjustment in recirient
regions, Results of a survey of 600 recent migrants from the North conducted by the Netherlands
Economic Institute (May 1998)
*Including electronic files
- 90 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Northern Restructuring Project
Apr-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                 disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                          IBRD          IDA                   GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.          Orig   Frm Rev'd
P046061        2001 MOSC URB TRANS                                       60.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      60.00        0.00       0.00
P008832        2001 MUN WATER & WW                                      122.50       0.00                   0.00       0.00     122.50        0.00       0.00
P053830        2000 SUST FORESTRY PILOT                                  60.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      60.00        0.00       0 00
P05S587        2000 REG FISC TA                                          30.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      29.00        3.50       0.00
P050487        1999 STATE STATS SYST                                     30.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      29.10        5.10       0 13
P046496        1998 SOCPROTIMPL                                          28.60       0.00                   0.00       0.00       16.88      15.33       0.00
P050486        1998 COAL SECAL II                                       800.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      150.00     150.00     150.00
P042720        1997 ST PETERSBURG REHAB                                  31.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00        8.02       8.02       0.00
P008825        1997 EDUC INNOV                                           71.00       0.00                   0.00       3.00      58.52       17.46       0.00
P044200        1997 BUREAU OF ECON POL                                   22.60       0.00                   0.00       0.00        7.21       1.97       0.00
P050891        1997 ELEC SECTR REF                                       40.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      37.92       37.92      15.92
P008814        1997 HEALTH REFORM PILOT                                  66.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      50.93       34.54       0.00
P035764        1996 BRIDGE REHAB                                        350.00       0.00                   0.00     158.00      71.01      222.02       3.73
P045622        1996 COAL IAP                                             25.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00        9.35       9.35       8.10
P036973        1996 ENT HOUSING DIVST                                   300.00       0.00                   0.00      43.61     219.50      167.12       1 41
P042622        1996 CAP MRKT DEV                                         89.00       0.00                   0.00      33.75       37.89      68.40       2.11
P035761        1996 COMMUNITY SOC INF                                   200.00       0.00                   0.00      43.50      107.76     104.76      18.76
P008801        1996 BIODIVCONSV(GEF)                                      0.00       0.00                  20.10       0.00        6.86       7.78      -3.47
P008800        1996 ODS CONSP PHASEOUT(GEF)                               0.00       0.00                  60.00       0.00      37.57       37.45       0.27
P038571        1996 MED EQUIP                                           270.00       0.00                   0.00      37.70      22.68       60.38       6.68
P008831        1996 LEGAL REFORM                                         58.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      34.05       34.05      -0.45
P008837        1996 STANDARDS DEV                                        24.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00        5.33       5.33       5.33
P008803        1995 EGY EFF                                             106.50       0.00                   3.20       0.00      52.18       88.68      55.48
P008806        1995 URBAN TRANSPORT                                     329.00       0.00                   0.00      55 00       27.31      82.31       0.00
P040409        1995 EMG OIL SPILL MITIGATION                             99.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00       13.20      13.20       3.50
P008821        1995 ENV MGMT                                            110.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00       57.49      49.04       0.94
P008823        1995 PORTFOLIO DEVT                                       40.00       0.00                   0.00        1.81      15.24      17.05      11 45
P008827        1995 HOUSING                                             400.00       0.00                   0.00      30.00      196.77     226.77       0.00
P034579        1994 LAND REF IMPL SUPPORT                                80.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      49.08       49.08      -0.27
P008839        1994 ENTERPRISE SUPPORT                                  200.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      160.10     160.10       1.63
P008828        1994 FIN INSTS                                           200.00       0.00                   0.00      59.50      66.71      126.21      -0.18
P008811        1994 AGRICREFIMPL                                        240.00       0.00                   0.00     118.20        5.09     123.29       3.29
Total:     4482.20        0.00                83.30       584.08     1825.26    1926.23     284.36
- 91 -



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Apr-200 1
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbu sed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1995               A.O. Volga                    24.81    11.00    0.00    32.55   24.81    11.00    0.00   32.55
1996/98            Alpha Cement                   0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997/99            Aminex                         0.00    0.12     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.12     0.00    0.00
1999               Bitech-Silur                   17.50    7.50    0.00     0.00    0.00    7.50     0.00    0.00
1998               Borsteklo                      0.00    15.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    15.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Campina                        7.98    0.00     0.00     0.00    7.98    0.00     0.00    0,00
1998               DCC                            0.00    0.05     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00
1995               Depsona Z.A.O.                 0.00    1.50    0.00      0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1998               DreVo                          0.00    0.90     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.89     0.00    0.00
1995               First NIS Fund                 0.00    6.83     0.00     0.00    0.00    6.83    0.00    0.00
1994               Framlington Fund                0.00    8.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    8.00     0.00    0.00
2000               lkea MOS                       15.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    15.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               Mosenergo                      20.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    16.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               OMGC                           10.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    5.20    0.00      0.00    0.00
2000               Pan American                    0.00    9.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.00       0.00    0.00
1996               Pioneer First                   0.00    4.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    4.00     0.00    0.00
1993               Polar Lights                   4.50    0.00    0.00      0.00    4.50    0.00     0.00    0.00
1994               RTDC                            0.00    7.50    0.00     0.00    0.00    7.50     0.00    0.00
1998               Ramstore                       30.50    0.00    0.00     0.00   30.50    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               Russ Leasing Co                 0.00    0.60    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.60     0.00    0.00
1995               Russ Tech Fnd                   0.00    1.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1994               Russia Registry                 0.00    1.50    0.00     0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1995               SCF                             0.00    4.53    0.00     0.00    0.00    4.53     0.00    0.00
1998               Toribank                        0.00   12.24    0.00     0.00    0.00   12.24    0.00    0.00
1996               UNEXIM Bank                     5.77    0.00    0.00     0.00    5.77    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               ZAO Pakenso                     6.00    1.50    0.00     0.00    6.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       142.06    92.77    0.00    32.55   115.76   92.76    0.00   32.55
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2001               Ramstore 11                   30000.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1999               Russ Leasing Co                3000.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               SCF - RI                          0.00    273.10      0.00      0.00
2001               Bema Gold                         0.00      0.00   1000.00      0.00
1998               Depository Clear                500.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               Dukat Silver                      0.00      0.00   4900.00      0.00
1998               Elcoteq                           0.00      0.00    100.00      0.00
2000               Pan Amenican                      0.00      0.00   3500.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:     33500.00    273.10   9500.00      0.00
- 92 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Northern Restructuring Project
Europe &    Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                   Russian    Central   middle-                       -      - _
Federation      Asia   Income        Development diamond*
1999
Population, mid-year (milfhons)                         146.2       475      2,094                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method. USS) la                   2,250      2,150     1,200
GNP (Atlas m7othorL USS billions) /a                    329.0      1,022     2,513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
PoDulation f%)                                           -043        0.1       1.1
Labor force (%J                                           0.0        0.6        1.2     GNP                                Gross
per                              primary
Most recont estimate (latest year avallahle, 1993-99)                                   capita         \               enrollment
PovertY (% of population befow national Povertv line)     30
Urban Dopulation (% of totalrwoulation)                   73         67         43
Life expectancv at birth (vears)                          66         69         69
Infant mortality (Per 1, 000 livo births)                  16        22         33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                  3          a        16                 Access to safe water
Access to imoroved water source (% of population)           ..        ..        86
Illiteracy (% of Dopulation age 15+)                        1         3         16
Gross primary enrolment (% of school-age popDulation)    109        100        114           Russian federation
Male                                                   109        101        114               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 108         99        116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998       1999
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                      913.3      277.8     184.6
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                            33.8       1567      15.5                       Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                        21.9       31 4      45,7
Gross domestic savingslGDP                               34,7       20.4      32.9
Gross national savinos/GDP                                          16.0      26.7
Current account balancefGDP                                          0.3      11.2      Domestic
Interest pavments/GDP                                                1 A        1.6      Savings                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                      67.0      95.8
Total debt servicelexDorts                                          10.3      11.6
Present value of debt/GDP                                           59A4
Present value of debt/exports                                      187.6
Indebtedness
1979489  1989-S9      1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                    2.8     -6.2      -4.9        3 2       43           -Russian Federation
GNP per capita                                 -6.6      -6.6        0 7       4.8                  Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services                   1.7      -2.3       .3.0       2.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of Investment and GDP 4%)
(% of GDP)                                                                              10
Aqriculture                                              16.8        5.4        6.6
Industrv                                                 50.2       36.4      37.7
Manufacturinc                                                                                                               go ..  .  .15
Services                                                 33.0       58.2      55.7    -20.
Private consumption                                      45.1       65.8      54.5    -30
General government consumption                           20.1       13.8      12.6               -    GDI      _     GDP
Imports of goods and services                            21.0       26.6      28.3
1979-89  1989-99      1998       1999     Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                              -7.0      -13.2        2.4    20
Industrv                                                 -9.5       -5.2       8.1
Manufacturing                                                                          o .  .  ..
Services                                                 -2.3       -2.5       -0.1                   9     96   97
Private consumption                                       1.4       -2.6       -5.3    20
General government consumption                           -0.7        0.1        4.3
Gross domestic investment                               -20.5      -26.0        5.6                 Expons    -*Imports
Imports of qoods and services                            -3.9      -14.8     -29.9
Gross national product                                   -6.8       -6.8       0.2
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-qroup average, If data are missinQg the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 93 -



Russian Federatr on
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998     1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                        0
(% change)                                                                           1,000
Consumer prices                                  ..       ..      27.7      85.7      750 -
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..        ..      14.4      63.3     5s0
Government finance                                                                    250
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     0
Current revenue                                 ..        ..      30.2      33.5               94   95   96   97   98   tO
Current budget balance                          ..        ..      -2.8       1.6           -     GDP deflator    tCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..        ..      -8.3      -3.6
TRADE
1979     1989       1998      1999      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..        ..   74,888    75,306      100,000
Crude oil                                      .,       ..    10,276    14,089
Natural gas                                    ..       ..   13,502    11,352       75,000
Manufactures                                                    9,000    8,609
Total imports (cif)                              .        ..    60,438    41,261
Food                                           ..       ..   10,800      8,137                                          L
Fuel and enerqy                                                 1,654      451
Capital goods                                  ..       ..   15,856    10,167           0                               is
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..        ..        83        83
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..        ..        87        88                0 Exports     *imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..        ..        95        95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                   ..        ..   87,259    84,346      12-.
Imports of goods and services                   ..        ..   74,013    52,288
Resource balance                                 ..       ..    13,246    32,058
Net income                                       ..       ..  -11,900   -11,900
Net current transfers                           ..        ..      -409       534
Current account balance                         ..        ..       937    20,692
Financing items (net)                           ..         ,   -11,701   -16,865        I                     I .,  , -L
Changes in net reserves                         ..        ,,    10,764    -3,827          93   94   95   96   97   98   99
Memo:
Reserves includinq gold (US$ mi/tionsl          ..        ..    12,223    12,456
Conversion rate (locallUS$)                                        9.7      24.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            ..        ..  186,114   176,898
iBRD                                          ..       ..      6,424     6,809
IDA                                            ..      ..          0         0               G 5,365  A: 6,809
Total debt service paid                          ..       ..    9,100      9,834                                     0:57
IBRD                                           .        ..       383       520
IDA                                            ..      ..          0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               ..       ..         85                  F: 80,733
Official creditors                            ..       ..        822      -707                                  :68,696
Private creditors                             ..       ..      9,657     -200
Foreign direct investment                     ..       .,    2,764         746     |                  -N                     |
Portfolio equity                              ..       ..        296       368
World Bank program
Commitments                                   ..       .,      1,500       430      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 ..       ..      1,228       538      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                             '      *-        66       150      C - IMF                     G - Short-teri
Net flows                                      ..      ..      1,162      388
Interest payments                             ..       ..        317      370
Net transfers                                 ..       ..        845        18
Development Economics and Country Team.                                                                                #
- 94 -



Additional
Annex 11
Summary of Social Assessment
The Social Assessment for the project consisted of several studies, each of which was designed to enable us
to understand empirically the status of potential migrants and those who had already migrated from the
North. The questions changed over time as the project concept was developed and refined and, at the last
stage, the focus was on potential migrants in the specific communities selected for inclusion in the project.
The last work, a socioeconomic survey of almost 2,100 households in three regions, took place in October,
1999, just before the pre-appraisal mission for the project. The studies are discussed in turn, with special
attention being given to the household survey.
Exploratory Studies
The first two studies focused on the socioeconomic characteristics of potential migrants and recent
out-migrants, respectively. They were complemented by a demographic analysis of migration statistics
provided by the Russian State Comrnittee on Statistics. Together, the studies were designed to ascertain
whether or not people want to move; what motivated them to move to the North; what motivates them to
leave and constrains them from doing so; how they assess existing migration support programs; and the
process and aftermath of migration.
The studies revealed that most people moved to the north temporarily, expecting to work, save money and
return to the mainland; they wanted to return to the mainland either because they had completed their work
careers or they were discouraged by the steady erosion of their benefits and therefore lost their reason for
staying; they felt that the most energetic and best educated people, as well as the most successful people
had already departed, leaving behind those who had no resources to move on their own; they indicated a
high level of mistrust of officials and migration programs, thus little hope that they would eventually
benefit from them; and they especially disliked the fact that migration programs were not transparent and
gave migrants little or no choice of destination. In addition, potential migrants and those who do not want
to move feel that the principal beneficiaries of current migration support programs are housing contractors
in destination sites. Those who wanted to migrate but did not do so were primarily constrained by their
financial status, often due to wage and benefit arrears, as well as their perception of high costs and unique
needs, such as special medical treatment. The people who were eligible for migration support but chose not
to leave were either settled in the North and had nowhere to go or were constrained to remain for family
reasons. Recent migrants who were located in the mainland indicated that, for the most part, they
considered themselves to be better off in the new location; they were motivated to move primarily because
of the availability of housing, rather than employment; and they frequently ended up in very different
occupations than the ones they previously held. For the most part, they migrated to areas where they had
relatives or friends, but not necessarily to their place of origin.
These findings demonstrated that a reasonable migration support program would be welcomed, but it must
be transparent, participation must be voluntary and the destination preferences of participants must be
honored. Once project locations were selected, subsequent studies focused more specifically on the
characteristics, needs, attitudes and preferences of potential migrants in order to refine elements of the
program, both before and after migration, and to anticipate the impact of the program on the beneficiaries
themselves, as well as their former and destination communities. Focus groups and a household survey
were used to confirm earlier findings and to expand the project information base.
- 95 -



Focus Groups
Focus groups in the three participating regions identified clear differences between the areas regarding the
nature of migration in the respective area, the attachment of people to the North and the perceived human
costs of migration. Overall, it is clear that residents of Norilsk may be more reluctant to migrate than
people in the other two regions because they believe that their overall situation is more promising than they
would find elsewhere. Housing and services in Norilsk are satisfactory, thus there are fewer "push" l'actors
than in the other regions. In Magadan, there is already a high preponderance of seasonal migration. Much
migration has already taken place and an increasing share of the workforce in the gold mining area consists
of former residents of the area who migrated as families to the mainland and return as individuals for
summer employment. This has implications for the type of incentives that would encourage permanent
out-migration. In Vorkuta, focus groups elaborated the special concems of multi-generation families,
particularly those in which the employed persons and pensioners may have different priorities.
Despite differences between the regions, the focus groups revealed four common themes. First, thousands
of people on waiting lists never expect to receive the migration support to which they are entitled; thus their
hopes for the future are rather tenuous. Second, many potential beneficiaries will be uncomfortable with
intangible benefits, such as vouchers and the housing infornation system, until their utility and
dependability are proven. Nonetheless, their fears associated with the danger of carrying cash to the
mainland, or even transferring money, are likely to make them responsive to new ideas, even if untried.
Third, people are unfamiliar with mechanisms to redeem vouchers, such as through the use of real estate
agents, and afraid of being cheated, thus initial participants will undoubtedly need special assistance, if
only moral support, until reliable, non-exploitative mechanisms are proven to be effective and ividely
understood by target populations. Finally, any perceived differences between defined eligibility or benefit
levels and practice are likely to be interpreted as evidence of preferential treatment, and thus could easily
discredit the program. Consistent and transparent implementation will be critical for credibility.
Household Survey
The household survey covered a sample of over 2,065 households of people who are potential participants
in the project with an average household size of 3.2 persons. Although 66 percent of the respondents were
women, the gender distribution among all sample households was 52 percent female and 48 percent male.
The sample included eleven different sub-groups reflecting differences in targeting in the three regions. The
survey focused on family resources, migration history, interest in migration, support requirements,
migration preferences and other factors that have been identified as relevant to migration decisions and
success. All households were selected in the communities that are scheduled to be closed Promyshlenny or
have district services withdrawn (Shiroky and Maldiak). In larger communities, households are selected
from lists of members of specifically targeted categories of beneficiaries in the respective regions. Some
preliminary results of the survey were available during the pre-appraisal mission for use in discussions with
officials and potential beneficiaries to refine regional programs, identify likely destination locations and
ascertain follow-up requirements of participants.  The following analysis treats the whole sample
population, for the most part. More detailed analysis will be reported in a separate document in early
2000.
Findings of the survey confirmed most expectations and helped refine others.
Living Conditions and Problems. Respondents overwhelmingly said their conditions were poor and
deteriorating. Forty-one percent said they do not have enough money for food and another 39 percent said
they could buy food, but not clothes. Ninety-four percent spend more than 50 percent of their inco-ne on
- 96 -



food and 76 percent spend more than 75 percent. Although a relatively small proportion (30 percent) said
their housing was good, most said it was not (70 percent). The main problems are poor standard of living
(income, employment) and conditions in the North.
What are Your Principal Problems? (percent-partial responses)
First Problem            Second Problem
Low Income, Material Status                        43                          6
Need to Move out of the North                      21                         11
Unemployment                                        12                         0
Poor Housing                                        5                         15
Poor Health                                         5                          8
Worsening Economic Conditions                       1                          7
Although respondents were rather pessimistic about the future, they see migration as a way to improve.
Do you Expect Things to Improve? (percent)
Over the Next Year               After Migration
Improve                                      10                              36
Stay the Same                               33                               13
Worsen                                      42                               13
Do not know                                 15                               14
Desire to Migrate. Seventy-five percent of the respondents said they wanted to migrate from the North,
ranging from 95% of the respondents in Promyshlenny to 56% of the "repressed" population, former
prisoners of the gulag system. In the latter case, the low response reflects the fact that many of these
people are elderly and essentially have nowhere else to go. Forty-seven percent of the respondents said they
discussed moving at least once a week and 72 percent said that migration was important or very important
to them. Not surprisingly, in the overall sample, the people with worst living conditions were most anxious
to leave, and those who are not currently eligible for migration support had little expectation to leave the
North.
Although there is a stereotype of miners from the north vacationing regularly on the Black Sea, clearly that
era is over. The average length of residence in the North of respondents is 24 years. Only 14 percent over
the last five years and only 5 percent had moved from the north over the last 20 years. Respondent
households averaged 1.7 trips out of the north over the last 5 years, but 36 percent had not traveled at all
over that time. Those who traveled did so to vacation (27 percent), to visit relatives (18 percent) or to visit
parents and children (11 percent). Seventy-eight percent of respondents have relatives on the mainland.
These results indicate less direct contact and weaker ties to other areas than expected, and confirm the need
for the information components in the project.
Thirty percent of the respondents said they have decided where they want to migrate and 16 percent have
- 97 -



decided on one destination but are also considering another. Thirty percent of those have decided on a
destination are in contact with relatives or friends in the destination area at least once a month. Clearly,
preparations are underway, at least on a personal level.
Respondents were asked who in the household would participate in a migration assistance prcgram,
including members living elsewhere. Seventy-five percent responded that everyone in the household would
move; 12 percent said that some members would remain behind; and 3 percent said that additional relatives
should join the household party. Of those who would remain behind, 49 percent are children, 27 percent
parents and 13 percent grandparents. Some respondents mentioned more than category of relatives; the
most prevalent were grandchildren (42 percent) and brothers and sisters (20 percent). The extra-household
relatives that would join the migrating group are children (23 percent), parents (11 percent) and brathers
and sisters (7 percent) The second level addition is primarily grandchildren (20 percent), indicating that the
additional group would consist of children and grandchildren; just as those left behind would also be
primarily children and grandchildren, followed by parents and grandparents. These findings demonstrate
the validity of giving participants the opportunity to set their own household boundaries when migrating, to
enable them to constitute units that correspond to their needs.
Migration-Related Initiatives and Information. Although most respondents want to migrate, orly 20
percent said that they are likely to move in the near future.  Most have taken little initiative, however,
beyond looking for information.
Have You Taken Any Action Related to Migration? (percent)
Nothing                                                               41
Sought Information about Programs                                     24
Signed up for Program Waiting Lists                                   11
Looked in Newspapers for Jobs, Housing                                 8
Asked Relatives, Friends to Help Find Jobs, Housing                    7
Inquired about Moving Costs                                            3
Looked around for Housing, Employment Information                      2
Only slightly more than a third of the respondents are eligible for migration assistance programs, not all of
whom have signed up, and fewer expect to get migration support from the programs.
Migration Program Eligibility and Expectations (percent)
Eligible       Signed Up           Expect Results
Federal Program                     21               13                    20
Regional Program                    12               5                     12
Enterprise Program                   5               2                     6
Although potential migrations obtain information from different sources, they do not consider all sources to
be equally trustworthy.
- 98 -



Where do You Get Information About Other Areas? (percent)
Newspapers,    Local Administration, Trade   Family, Friends    Nowhere
TV, Radio               Unions
Housing                       43                      3                      31              20
Employment                     22                     2                      28              41
Health Services                22                      1                     27              47
Migration Services             36                     14                      7              39
By far, friends are relatives are considered to be the most trustworthy information sources, although this
varies from one topic to another.
How Much Do You Trust Information From these Sources? (percent)
Fully Trust      Trust      Partially       Do Not Trust
Trust
Family, Relatives, Friends               23            33           27                 6
Local Newspapers, Radio                  3             17           47                22
Advertising, Publications                1              4            20               62
Television                               2             13            49               25
Trade Unions                             I              8            18               37
Local Administration                     3             14            30               38
As expected, respondents indicated little trust of institutions, either for information or support; nonetheless,
they indicated a relatively high level of dependency on local government, in particular.
Migration Assistance and Decision-Making. Ninety-one percent of the respondent households said they
could not migrate without financial assistance. Although one-third said they did not expect to get help from
others, those who expected help identified a number of sources.
From Whom Would You Expect
To Get Assistance for Migration? (percent)
Only from Me                           32
Enterprise                             17
Federal Government                     17
Local Administration                   12
Relatives, Friends                      3
Trade Unions
Other Public Entities
- 99 -



The responses varied considerably from one region to another. For example, respondents in Norilsk
expected support from the enterprise, while those in Susuman District put faith in the Federal Government
and local government, respectively, and respondents in Vorkuta and Promyshlenny had higher expectations
for federal support.
The respondents' range of expectations is rather narrower, however, and overall rather pessimistic.
Do You Believe You Will
Really Get Help? (percent)
Yes                                              11
Perhaps Yes                                      16
Perhaps No                                      21
No                                              21
Not Sure                                        21
Do Not know                                      7
Specific migration support needs also varied, but the overall family-level constellation is consistent with
project offerings--housing, transport and household shipments.  As respondents could indicate m iltiple
needs, the results were aggregated to ascertain response patterns. The result of aggregation indicaie that
financial assistance is principal, followed by housing. The six most prevalent responses of those who
answered the question (94 percent of the total sample) are presented below.
What Kinds of Assistance Do You Need? (percent of aggregated responses)
Financial Help, Money                                               64
Housing                                                             10
Money for Housing                                                    7
Housing, Transportation, Shipment of Effects                         5
Transportation and Shipment of Effects                               4
Transportation                                                       3
Given the fact that housing is the most costly element of a migration package, the first response for many
respondents, financial help, is understood primarily to relate to purchasing housing. Consequently, housing
is the overwhelming need of potential migrants.
When respondents were asked to identify the most significant problems with existing migration assistance
programs. Responses were very widespread, with relatively little clustering. The lack of financial support
and choice of destination ranked first, although the ranking changed in second and third-choice responses.
- 100-



What are the Major Problems with Current
Migration Assistance Programs? (percent)
1st Answer      2nd Answer       3rd Answer
No Financial Support                              22               14                3
No Choice of Destination                          17                0                0
Waiting Lists are Too Long                        10               18                10
They are Not "Real" (no budget)                   10               18               26
I am Not Eligible for One                          7                4                4
Beyond the issue of specific benefits, the results show a clear mistrust of the current migration assistance
programs. That is, whatever provisions may be in the programs, if they are not funded, respondents
consider them not to be "real." This may account for the rather diffuse responses to this question.
A fundamental characteristic of the program is freedom of choice: participants will choose their migration
destination as well as their housing. Although we expect most participants to have clear preferences for
location, housing selection will be more complicated. Many migrants have support networks already in
place, or being developed, as indicated above, and others need more assistance in selecting a destination
and locating suitable housing. One important element of the household survey was the attempt to
understand what factors are important to respondents in selecting a migration destination and housing. To
achieve this, respondents presented with a list of 18 characteristics of locations and 20 housing
characteristics and were ask to rate each characteristic as either decisive, important, not important or not
applicable. For analysis, the first three responses were assigned a score (decisive = 3; important = 2; and
not important = 1) and an average score was calculated for each characteristic. The highest score for
location was good physical environment (2.26); for housing selection, the condition of the apartment ranked
highest (2.25). The nine highest ranking characteristics in each category are listed below.
Destination Selection Criteria          Ranking    Housing Selection Criteria          Ranking
Score                                         Score
Good Physical Environment                 2.26       Condition of Apartment              2.25
Good Climate (Better than North)          2.26       Type of Housing                     2.24
Quality of Medical Services               2.13      Water Supply                         2.20
I Can Select the Housing                  2.10      Heating System                       2.16
Settlement Type (city, town, village)     2.06      Access to Public Transport           2.06
Quality of Housing                        2.04       Size of Apartment                   2.04
Quality of Social Services                1.98      Telephone                            1.99
Friends/Relatives Living There            1.94      Kitchen Facilities                   1.97
Availability of Home Gardens              1.82      Age of Building                      1.96
The results were somewhat surprising in two regards: first, the spread was more even than anticipated, less
clustered; second, the ranking of family bonds is lower than anticipated. These, and other findings will be
- 101 -



analyzed in more detail in the final report of the survey, and the results will be factored prominently into the
design of the information database being developed in the project to ensure that prospective migrants o)btain
the information they need to make reasonable choices for themselves and their families.
In summary, the results of the survey make a strong case for the project, as such, as well as sp ,cific
components. They also both the need for migration assistance and the project approach, which is to
maximize the involvement of individuals in deciding their fate and minimizing bureaucratic procedures and
vulnerability. This also establishes a focused, powerful baseline for the social monitoring to be undertaken
throughout project implementation. Refinements of the analysis will enable the monitoring program to be
geared to the specific needs and constraints of individual target groups, greatly enhancing the learning that
will result from the program.
- 102-



Additional
Annex 12
Project Management and Coordination
PROJECT GENERAL MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
The Northem Restructuring Project (the Project) is managed both at the federal level and at the level of the
regions participating in the Project (participating regions).
At the federal level the general management of the Project is performed by the Inter-Ministerial Working
Group for the Coordination of Preparation and Implementation of the Project (IMWG). The day-to-day
management of the Project is performed by the central Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
At the regional level the general management of the Project implementation is performed by the
Coordination / Supervisory Councils of the participating regions. The day-to-day management of the
Project is performed by the Local Project Implementation Units (LPIUs). Local (municipal) administrations
of the project territories and regional governments of the project regions render assistance to the Project
implementation.
The Russian Federation Ministry of Finance performs a general control over the use of Certificates and the
targeted use of the Project's funds. The Federal Treasury, under the Ministry of Finance, will provide
funds to Sberbank for the Migration Assistance Allowances, which will then be reimbursed from the loan.
The Sberegatelny Bank of the Russian Federation (Sberbank) establishes and services blocked targeted
accounts of the Project participants, checks housing purchase agreements in the recipient regions, and
transfers funds of housing subsidies to accounts of housing sellers.
INTER-MINISTERIAL WORKING GROUP FOR THE COORDINATION OF PREPARATION
AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
The general management of the Project at the federal level is performed by the Inter-Ministerial Working
Group for the Coordination of Preparation and Implementation of the Project (IMWG). It represent the
Russian Federation Government's interests in the Project implementation.
The IMWG was responsible for overseeing project preparation on behalf of the Government and approving
all key decisions, as well as overseeing the preparation activities undertaken by the PIU. During
implementation it will be the key Government counterpart for the project and will oversee implementation
and take decisions as necessary.
The Inter-Ministerial Working Group is chaired by the Deputy Minister of Economy and includes senior
officers of the key federal agencies which are involved in the development and implementation of the
government policy on the development of the Russian northern areas (Ministry of Economy, Ministry of
Finance, State Committee for Construction, Architectural and Housing Policies, Ministry of Labor and
Social Policy, the Government Apparat and the Federal Center for Project Financing). The IMWG
meetings are held at least once every three months and are chaired by the IMWG head or by his deputy if
so is instructed by the IMWG head.
- 103-



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
The IMWG has selected a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), a specialized organization with experience in
implementing Bank projects, to perform a day-to-day management of the Project, to provide an analytical,
legal and accounting support to the Project and to ensure compliance with Bank procedures. The IMvWG
has selected the Non-Commercial Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institutions
Development (FER) as the PIU for the Project. The FER is a legal entity set up by the Russian Federation
Government for the work with Bank projects. The FER management bodies include representatives of the
key Project participating ministries and agencies; and has staff and an infrastructure to provide suppcrt to
the Project. The PIU reports to the IMWG.
The status, functions, authorities and reporting of the PIU in respect to the Project (including procurements,
loan accounting, etc.) are defined in the Agency Agreement with MOF and MEDT. Such agreement is
made upon coordination with the IBRD for a period of the project implementation. Under the Ag-ncy
Agreement, the PIU will be responsible for the administration of the Migration Assistance Program.
The PIU will be responsible for the organization and implementation of the Project. It will ersure
coordination between all stakeholders at the federal and local levels including the IMWG, the
Coordination/Supervisory Councils, local administrations, and LPIUs and other relevant agencies. The
PIU will oversee the implementation of all components and assist the LPIUs with the implementation o X the
Migration Assistance Component, including training of LPIU staff. The PIU will be responsible for all
procurement, disbursement and financial management aspects of the project. It will be responsible for all
reporting requirements to the Bank and the Government and will consolidate information received frorn the
LPIUs. It will oversee the work of consultants, organize seminars and training.
COORDINATION / SUPERVISORY COUNCILS IN THE PARTICIPATING REGIONS
The general management and control over the Project implementation at the regional level are performed by
Coordination / Supervisory Councils set up by decisions of appropriate executive bodies in the
participating regions. The consist of representatives of local governments/administrations, local legisla:zors,
major local employers, major labor unions and other public organizations registered in the region.
Decisions of the Council are agreed with the PIU and the IMWG and are mandatory for all Project
participants.  After the Project regulatory documents are approved by the Coordination/Supervi,3ory
Council, they are effected by the local government (with approval, if necessary, by appropriate legislative
bodies). The functions of the Coordination/Supervisory Councils are as follows:
I .    To performn the general management and control over the Project implementation at the local lev el;
2.     To coordinate activities of the regional and local governments, LPIUs, core enterprises and other
organizations and specialists in the area of the Project implementation at the local level;
3.     To coordinate with the PIU and the IMWG and to organize the execution of the Prcject
Implementation Plan at the local level, to coordinate regulatory and methodological documents relevart to
the Project;
4.     To control funds allocated for the project financing in the participating region including the local
co-financing of the Project;
5.     To monitor LPIUs activities;
6.     To approve lists of the Project participants prepared by LPIUs, to apply to the PIU for Certific Ites
and to dispatch such documents to the PIU as a substantiation for receiving Certificates;
7.     To develop, coordinate with the PIU, to present to the IMWG and the local government proposals
- 104-



conceming adjustments to improve the Project implementation strategy as well as recommendations for
introduction of its results at the local level;
8.     To review and approve reports of organizations and specialists employed to prepare and implement
the Project at the regional level.
LOCAL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNITS
Local Project Implementation Units (LPIU) provide organizational, informational and analytical support
for the Migration Assistance Component. A detailed description of the legal status, structure, functions,
reporting and financing procedures of LPIUs is given in the Regulation for Local Project Implementation
Units. Details on LPIU structure, staffing, financing and responsibilities are included in the PIP.
LOCAL ADMINISTRATIONS IN THE PARTICIPATING REGIONS
Local Administrations in the participating regions render assistance to the Project implementation in all
areas. Functions of Local Administrations in the project regions include as follows:
1 .    To set up Coordination / Supervisory Councils in the project regions;
2.     To assist the LPIUs in work organization and staffing (primarily in those cases when an LPIU is
organized as a Local Administration department);
3.     To organize the implementation process of local restructuring plans;
4.     To approve counterpart funds procedure for the Project from the local sources and to ensure
execution of local co-financing obligations;
5.     To adopt proposals developed by the Coordination / Supervisory Councils concerning adjustments
to improve the Project implementation strategy as well as recommendations for introduction of its results at
the local level;
6.     To assist with promotion of the Project positive image at the local level.
REGIONAL GOVERNMENTS IN THE PARTICIPATING REGIONS
The function of the regional governments in the participating regions include as follows:
1.    To fulfill obligations to preserve savings produced from the implementation of the Project in the
appropriate territory for a period of 3 to 5 years;
2.     To assist with the implementation of local restructuring plans in the appropriate territory;
3.     To disseminate the positive experience of the Project implementation within the region.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION MINISTRY OF FINANCE
The Russian Federation Ministry of Finance has within the Project the functions as follows:
1. organizes, based on the IMWG request and in accordance with the properly approved schedule,
Certificate printing with serial numbers allocated to appropriate regions;
2. maintains a single register of paid and redeemed Certificates that is monthly prepared by the PIU;
3. monitors the targeted disbursement of the Project funds.
- 105-



SBEREGATELNY BANK OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Sberegatelny Bank of the Russian Federation (Sberbank) performs financial settlements between
housing sellers and buyers as well as ensures monitoring of the targeted use of the housing subsidy tmder
the Project.
Local Sberbank branches in the recipient regions have the following functions:
1.    Upon presentation of the Certificate, to establish a blocked targeted account of a Project
participant (a Certificate holder) to where housing subsidy funds will be credited;
2.     To conclude with a Certificate holder a standard agreement for servicing the blocked targeted
account;
3.     To check the housing purchase agreement presented by a Certificate holder as to its compliance
with the following parameters:
conformity of the properly executed housing purchase agreement with the passport (or its
substitute) data of the Certificate holder;
conformity of persons indicated in the Certificate with persons who act as buyers in the housing
purchase agreement;
proper execution of the housing purchase agreement (availability of notarized signatures, seals,
personal data of contractual parties, rights to real estate and transactions with real estate certified by a
local government registration body), satisfaction of interests of all persons indicated in the Certificate;
conformity of the housing cost under the housing purchase agreement with the Certificate airrount
(the housing subsidy);
if the housing cost under the housing purchase agreement exceeds the Certificate amount (the
housing subsidy), a missing amount should be deposited to the blocked targeted account of the Certificate
holder or paid to the housing seller as an advance and evidenced by a receipt;
the housing size should not be smaller than the normative of the total (living) area of housing that
is established by the sub-national government of the Russian Federation in the recipient region for
registration of residents for the improvement of living conditions.
4.     To apply to the local branch of the Federal Treasury with request to transfer migration assistance
allowance funds from the Federal Treasury to Sberbank.
5.     Upon receipt of funds from the Federal Treasury, to transfer funds to the blocked targeted account
of the Certificate holder with a local Sberbank branch in a recipient region.
With attachment to the application of the following documents:
a Certificate coupon certified by a local Sberbank branch in a recipient region;
a notarized copy of an agreement (deed of assignment) received from a Certificate holder that has
been made between a Project participant and an authorized government executive body which shows that
the housing of a Project participant in the northern area has been surrendered in full;
a notarized copy of the housing purchase agreement registered in a local government body
authorized to register rights to real estate and transactions with real estate in a recipient region;
if the housing cost under the housing purchase agreement exceeds the Certificate amount (the
housing subsidy), there should be a statement of balance of the blocked targeted account of a Certif cate
holder with an amount equal to the difference between Certificate amount (the housing subsidy) anci the
housing cost or there should be a be a notarized receipt of a seller that he has received a part of the housing
price equal to the difference between Certificate amount (the housing subsidy) and the housing cost;
6.     To transfer the migration assistance allowance amount from the blocked targeted account a of
Certificate holder to a housing seller account;
7.     To dispatch to the PIU copies of payment documents, statements of blocked targeted accounts of
- 106-



Certificate holders with indication of a date of transaction and its amount, as well as Certificate originals
with indication that the housing has been paid in to allow to redeem Certificates.
The Sberbank perfonrs its function under the Project in pursuance of the agreement made with the
Government.
- 107 -



Additional
Annex 13
Policy Letter of the Governnent of the Russian Federation
GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Moscow
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Washington, D.C.
USA
April 26, 'o001
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
As I have already informed you by my letter of April 17, 2001, that the Government of the
Russian Federation approved the results of negotiations on the Northern Restructuring Pilot
Project. In line with the conditions agreed at the negotiations, the RF Ministry of Economic
Development and Trade, RF Ministry of Finance and the State Committee of Russia for
Construction, Housing and Communal Complex have prepared this letter about the RF
Government program aimed at the state policy reform regarding the Far North regions. Actions
described herein are stipulated by appropriate government decisions and documents determiriung
the key areas of social and economic policy in the medium and long term perspective.
Let me present the action program to your attention.
The Russian Federation state policy reform regarding the regions of the Far North and the reg. ons
granted the same status, is an integral part of the Russian Federation development strategy fir a
period up to 2010. The plans of the Russian Government in this area are of a comprehensive
nature. The North is considered an integral part of a single economic environment of Russia
where common economic conditions and "rules of the game" should govern. In future it is
expected that the government will move from a special "northern" policy to the regional policy
built on the basis of common principles and recognizing the specific conditions of separate
regions, including northern regions, as necessary. Such policy will allow effective economy
development in the northern regions based on comparative advantages and implementation of
single approaches and principles of social equity in the overall regional policy.
To implement the strategic approach to reform of the state policy of the Russian Federaiion
regarding the Far North regions, the RF Government has already taken a number of important
- 108-



measures. In particular, a special agency responsible for the northern policy was excluded from the
new executive authorities structure. The basic functions in implementation of the economic and
social policy regarding the northern regions were delegated to the RF Ministry of Economic
Development and Trade, which performs the same functions in relation to all Russian regions.
According to the new Tax Code of the Russian Federation, a prorate individual income tax is
introduced, which automatically cancels all exemptions regarding the income tax that were
previously enjoyed by the residents of the North.
In 2001 - 2002, the RF Government intends to implement the following actions.
1.    Streamline the existing migration programs, including Northern out-migration, acquiring
housing for the military, miners migration support, resettlement programs under the RF Ministry
of Emergency Situations, as well as any other migration programs, based on single principles.
Approaches to evaluation of the housing space cost per square meter on the territory of the
Russian Federation, form of the housing certificate, mechanisms for provision of budget funds to
support migration will be unified. It will allow the migrant to have a free choice of housing in the
primary and secondary market, as well as a higher transparency and social equity in distribution
and use of public funds allocated for migration assistance. Approaches to the northern
out-migration arrangements will be unified with other migration programs of the RF Government,
which is in line with the strategy aimed at rejection of a special northern policy.
2.    Start implementation of the Northern Restructuring Program. The objectives of this
Program include:
*     testing new schemes of migration assistance based on the principle of voluntary
participation, freedom of choice of a place of residence and optimization of the migration
assistance size.
*     continuous implementation of measures in the area of local restructuring with the purpose
of budget saving and maximizing economic outcome resulting from consolidation of surplus
housing, utilities and social infrastructure, closing of nonviable settlements, as well as improving
municipal economy and policy.
The Program implementation will start in 2001 and will continue till 2005. Experience gained
under this Program will be taken into consideration in the course of further northern policy
reform, development and implementation of federal and regional housing and migration programs.
3.    Facilitate implementation of new approaches in regulation of budget relations with
municipalities at the level of the RF subjects referred to the northern territories to stimulate
restructuring processes and reduction of inefficient expenditures at the municipality level. The
first steps will be made in this area in 2001 - 2002.
4.    Discontinue a mandatory provision of guarantees and compensations for the non-budget
sector workers in the Far North regions and in the regions granted the same status, by initiating
preparation and introduction of appropriate amendments in RF Law No.4520-1 "On State
- 109-



Guarantees and Compensations for Persons working and residing in the For North Regions and in
Regions Granted Same Status" of February 19, 1993. These measures will be taken at the end of
2001 - beginning of 2002.
5.    Reform the remuneration system for the budget sector workers in the northern territories
in accordance with the general trends of reform in the economy budget sector. These reiorms
include implementation of the target-program and per-capita norm mechanisms of financing of the
budget organizations and agencies in combination with the expansion of a contracting form of
hiring the budget sector workers, which will allow to give the Single Tariff Schedule a status of a
recommended document and to increase independence of specific organizations - spending units
in establishing the sizes and conditions of remuneration for labor with consideration of the local
labor market conditions. The first steps in this area will be made in 2003 - 2004.
Implementation of the above activities will make it possible to eliminate distorting incentives for
the inflow of migrants into the North, rationalize budget expenditures, make northern regions an
integral part of the overall economic space of Russia, create favorable conditions for restructuring
the economy of the North. In combination with implementation of other reforms in the Russian
economy, it will stimulate investments and general rehabilitation of economic situation in the
northern territories.
We hope that the Bank management and the Board of Directors will appreciate the sca:e of
objectives that the RF Government will have to achieve to fundamentally rebuild the social and
economic structure that had been formed for decades on a substantial part of the territory of this
country.
Yours very truly,
V. Khristenko,
Deputy Chairman
Government of the Russian Federation
-110-



IIPABHTEJILbCTBO POCCHICICOHI
'DEJIEPAWffI
r.MOCKBA
"26 "anpein 2001 ri
YBaxaeMuzi0 rocrog0HH ByJeIcoH!
Kam a yse cooS6zmu  B nHCbMe OT 17 a&ip7IA cr., IlpasrTe.mcTmo PoccHAcxcoi  exgepagRu
oA0o6pHno pe3yfIbrTaTbI neperoBopoB no IIznorTHomy npoeKTy nepeceneHza HeTpygocnoco6Horo H
6e3pa6oTHoro HaCeCICHHA H3 paiOHOB KpaiHero CeBepa, B COOTBeTCTBHH C corJIacOBaHHbIMH Ha
nIeperosopax YCJIOBH3MH MHHS9KOHOMpa3BHTHCM, MwH4rnoM r roCcTpoeM  Poccnz nogroToBneHo
HacToHIee TmcbMo o nporpamme flpaBweambcTBa PocCHgcicoii cPeAepauHH  no pe4OpMHpOBaHFHo
rocygapcTBeHHoA nOnJTHKCH B OTHOLUCHRe paioHoB KpaAHero   CeBepa-  ZSJIoXeHHBIe  B  HeM
gerCTBHA  lipegyCMoTpeHJ B COOTBeTCTBYIzIIIHx flpaBHTeJCICTBeHHbIX  peiIIeHHHX  H   OKyMeHTaX,
onpegenmisoux OCHOBHbIe HanipsBIeIHHA CogHaJbHo-SCoHoMHHeCKoH 1IOJIHTHIH Ha cpegHeCpo0HyIo H
goJIroCpO'IHyIO nepCneKrHBy.
pe,cTaBsnfo BaineMy BHHMaHHIO STy nporpamyMMy gerCTBH.
Pe4opMHpOBaHHe rocygapCTBeHHOii fIO0IHTHI1C POCCZiiCKOii DeAepaIHH B OTH0ofleHHe paAoHoB
KpaiHero CeBepa H UPHpaBHeHHEX K HHM MeCTHOCTeC  HBE3IeTCA HeOTmeMneMon Hacmio cTpaTerHi
pa3BHTHZ POCCZiiCICOZl 'DegepaixHH go 2010 r. JaHnl IIPaBHTepencTBa POCCZCECOii (De,geparuiz e 3TOZl
o6naCTZ HOCRT KOMIIJIKCHMHA xapaKTep, B HZ4X Cesep pacCMaTpHBaeTcr xcaxc opraHHrecicaa  nacTm
eZHHoro  SKOHOMHeCKOrO  nipocTpaHcTBa  POCCHH,   rge   gojixHi geecTBoBaTh    o6uwe
sxOHOMHMeCKHce YCJIOBHA H "npaszBa   mrpU".  B nepcneCTHBe    npenoionaraeTcA   nepelTa  OT
oco6o0z             lceBepHozl"             nOITHIKH              K              perHoHaJIhHOR
FLPE3HNAEHTY ME3RYHAPO0THOFO EEACKA
PEKOHCTPYKIgHIII ,IPA3BHITHI rocnogiy JygKE1hICY
BYJITDEHCOIY r. BaIrnHrToH, ocpyr KonyM6Hz, CIIIA
- 111 -



2
noJIHTHKe, noCTpOeHHOz Ha OCHOBe o6IIHx nHPHHInOB H yqHTbIBaMIOeH B Heo6xOJU!MOH Mepe
cneg4rnKy OTgeJbHbIX perHoHoB, B TOM HHCJIe ceBepHMx. TaKaa tIOSEHTHICa flO3BOJIHT D6eCneTHTb
3$4CKTHBHOe  Pa3BHTHe  SKOHOMHKH  ceBepHbIx  perHOHOB  Ha  ocHOBe  HX  cpagBHHTeJTHbIX
npeHMyI4ecTB H pea1H3OBaTh ezHHCTBO UOAXOgOB H flpHHUHrIbI COLHaHmHoA CripaBelJImBOCTH B
perHOHaIibHoi rIOJIHTHKH B IlenOM.
B genix peanH3aAHH cTpaTerHMecK>oro nogxoga K pe4opMHpOBaHHo rocygapcTBeHHoz
rIOJIHTHKH POCCHrICKOI DegepauHz  B OTHOIflHHe paHoHoB KpaAHero CeBepa  IpaBrTenbcTBo
PoccHricKori TeIepagmH  yie npegpHHAflO pqg BECHbiX Mep. B MaCTHOCTH, Z3 HOBOZ CTpykTypEi
opraHoB HCIIOJIHHTeCIbHO  B31aCTH HCKIIIO9eHO oco60e BegOMcTBO, OTBeTCTBCHHOC 3a ceBepHyio
nOJIHTHK3. OCHOBHMIe tYHKzHH no ocyIijecTBJIeHzIo 3KOHOMYH9CCICO  H COgHanJHOA HIOJIHTHKH B
OTHomeICHe ceBepHHIx perHoHOB nepegaHi MHHIcTepcmBy 3YOHOMHMeCKOrO Pa3BHTH1 z ToproBjiH
PoccHi>ICOR  DegepairHH, ocynecTBmaoe emy aHaJIorHHZHMe 4yHKLHH rIO OTHOIXe.iHHI} KO BCeM
perzCoaM PoccHH.
B  COOTBeTCTBHH  C HOBbIM HaaiorOBbIM KOgeKCOM POccHiICKOii 'tegepagxH  EsOgzTCa
tIpOrlOptIHOHaJlHOe HanorOO63OXCeHHe gOXOgOB H3HHeCKHX AHg, HTO  aBToMaTHHecYZH  OTMeHEeT
3ibrOTI no nOgOXOAHOMy Haniory,                      IpeTOCTaBCJMIeC1 )zTenIM CeBepa.
B 2001-2002 rogax IIpaBHe.ibcTBo POcCHAcKoii (tegepaiurn HaMepeBaeTCH ocyigecwBsTm
cnegyiougne MepEl-
1. YriopzgoHTE, cylgecTByioiwHe  MHrpaZHOHHIe H   nporpaMMbI, BmiaoIaz  r:porpaMMbI
mHirpaIHH c CeBepa, npHo6peTeHHR )KEHI3 AgJI BOeHHOCIyXCaIgHX, IIoAgXgepXcH MHrpaT4HH IaxTepoB,
nlepecenleHHA InO JIHHHH M3qC PocCHH, a TaKxCe 31o6b1e riocne,gyioiHe MHrpaLHOHHECe nporpaMMu,
Ha ocHoBe egHHbIx npHHILtHOB. Eygyr YHHIHItHpOBaHU ITOgXOAhI K OripegeJICHHIO CTOHMOCTH
KcBagpaTHOro  meTpa  XHJII,CT   Ha TeppHTOpHH  POCCHItCKOA  'DegepagHH, 4opMa  ):LH3IH1LHoro
CepTHIEHKaTa, MexaH3Mmu ripe,CTaOT3jIHHZ 6iOXPeTTHbIX Cpe,qCTB Ha rioggepwcKy MHrpagHII. 3To zgaCT
BO3MOXHOCTh of6eCIIeHTh MHrpaHTY CBO60HMHZ BbI60p KHJIbA Ha nepBHHHOM H BTOpHH'IOM pLHice,
a TatKe 6oabmuiyxo  nIpo3pa&HOCTB  H  coHanEU HYIO  cnpaBeg;nHBocTm  IIpH  pactpet;eAeHHH  H
HCEIOnb3OBaHHH rOCygapCTBeHHhIX CpegCTB MHrpagHOHHOH InO,gtgepZKH. IpIpCgCTOHT yHHPigHpOBaTh
noAIXOgbi K opraHH3a&tHH  MHrpaiHH  c CeBepa c AgpyrHMH  MHrpagHOHHbIMH  riporpammamz
IIpaBHTenIbcTBa PoccHHCKo4 CI)egepagHH, 'ITO HaXOgHTCH B pycJIe cTpaTerHH, HaripaB3ICHHCHz Ha o0a33
OT oCo60z CeBCpHOZ rIOIHTHKH.
-112-



3
2. HaHaTm  peannaiuno  IIporpaMMb  CogeHCTBhH    nepeceneHarn  HeTpyAocuoco6Horo a
6e3pa6oTHoro HaceJIeHHn H3 paHOHOB KpaAIHero CeBepa. 3a,gaaMH gaHHOC  EporpaMMU 3nmmuoc:
- oTIpo6oBaHHe HOBLIX CxeM Co0geHCTBHA MHrpaiHm,  oCHoBaHHJX Ha gO6pOBOJInHOCTH
yiaCTmi, CBo6oge su6opa MCCTa  HTweJICTBc   U OD ETHmHaJh{
pa3mepa MmrpagIUOHHOi IIOgepfKlH
- IIOCJneAOBaTeJTbHOe OCyIIecTBneIHe MepOnpHATaHl nIo MeCTHOMy pecTpylTypHpoBaHHlo c
tleJIEIo 6io,seTHok 3KcOHOMHH H MaICCHamHinaHH 3KOHOMHheMtccIHX peSyJIETaToB, fIoJIy'eHHMX B
pe3yJlTaTe XOHCoJiH,ail.H H36UTO9HHOH )IHJIHUIIHO-KOMyHaJI&HOH H COIlHaJIbHOH 1HHpacTpyCTypbL,
3aKCpUTHR HeSH3HecInoco6HUX HiCeJIeHHhIX IIyHITOB, a TaKcie COBepIIIeHCTBOBaHHR MyHHIllnaJIbHOH
SKOHOMHCH E TIOJIHT4KH.
OCygecTBJIeHze IIporpaMMb HaHiiHeTC$ B 2001 rogy E 6ygeT ripogonsaTmcz go 2005 roga.
0nbiT  peaJIEatlEa   gaHHOH  YIporpaMMbI  6ygeT  YiHTbiBaThC   B  npogecce  ganbHeHmero
peopmHpoBaHmq CeBepHoEd nOEHTHEKEH, paspa6oTRH peannaLiEz  begepaJmHmX H perHOHaJIEHMX
SHJIHEIIHbIX H MHrpaiLHOHHUX nporpaMM.
3. CogeiicmOams BHeCpeHHIO Ha ypOBHe Cy6&eKTOB POCCHrnCKOi (tegepatHH, OTHOCiHXCA
IC CCBepHbIM TeppITOprHqM, HOBIX IOgXOgOB nio peryJIHpOBaHHIO  Mes6ioxgceTHbIX OTHOIIIeHHH C
MyHHgIEnaaJIbHEIUM    o6pa3OBaHHAMH,  CTHMYJIHPYIOIMHX   npoigeccu   peCTpyITYPHpOBaHHq  H
coKpaI1eHm3 HepaA4OHaJlbHbX 3aTpaT  Ha YpOBHe MyHHgHIaIHTeTOB. IlepBwe Iuara B 3ToM
HanpaBJseiHH 6ygyr ocymecTBJIeib B 2001-2002 rogax.
4. OTMeHHTh   o6a3aTeJIbnHuf  xapaKTcep   rapaHTHEH  H KOMnIeHCaXHE  HgIi  p a6OTHHIEOB
BHe6IOg)IeTHoro ceKTopa B paHoiax KpaPHero Cesepa H ripHpaBHeHHEIX K HHM MeCTHOCTSX niyTeM
HHHWIHHPOBaHHH nogrOOTOBKH E BHeCeHEH COOTheTCTByIOUIHX noiipa3oic B 3aKoH POCCHIZCKOiI
4Degepaivn OT 19  eBpa anq 1993 r. Th 4520-1 "0 roCy,gapCTBeaHHiX rapaHTHsx E KOMjeIHc agLHX gjj
fiHI, pa6oTaionjHx H ripOSHBaiOII.iX B paHOHax KparHero CeBepa H npHpaBHeHHiX K HHM
MecTHocTAx". WgaHHie LIarH 6ygyTr IpeCgIPHH;Sr B XOHLge 2001-Hatasxe 2002 roga.
5. PeopMHpoBaTa  CHCTeMy onIiaTbi Tpyga pa6oTHrxoa SiOgXeTHOrO ceXTopa B CeBepHUX
TePPEHTOPH.X B COOTBeTCTBHH C 0$6iIHMH HanpaBJIeHHHMH pe4OpMIpOBaHHH  6iog1KeTHoro ceicropa
SKOHOMHKHE   TaHHabe petopMbi npegycMaTpHB1aOT BHegpeHHe nporpaMMHo-IeueBbIx H nogyzieBsx
HOpMaTHBHEIX MexaHESMOB  EHHaHCHpOBaHHA opraHHSaiEHfi H yipewgeHHE  6ogwieTHoi  ctepw B
coieTaHHH  C   pacimHpeHHeM  npaiTECHE oxHTrpanTHoro HaEMa pa6oTHHcoD 61S0geTHoH Cepl,
TITO       nO03BOIHT       npHgaT         peeKoMeHgaTeJIbHbiH        xapaicTep      EgHHOi1
- 113-



4
TapH4$HoHi  ceTre  H  fiOBbICHT   CaMOCTOffTejAHOCTh  1COHKpeTHLIX  opraHH3agHH-rtojiytaTeZen
6iogsemHux cpeecgTB B YCTaHOB3IeHEH  pa3MepOB H yCJIOBHH OnIiaTbI Tpyga C yerTOM OC06eHHocTeii
JIoKacJbHUX pbIHKOB ipyga. fepBble IuarH B 3TOM HanpaBneJHHH 6ygyT npeinpHiTN i3 2003-2004
rogax.
OCyIneC-rJIeHae   gaHHIX  MepOnpHRTHii   UO3BOJIHT   JIHIkBHZHpOBaTh  cKaca)aitie
CTZHIyJThI sae3ga Ha CeBep, pagHOHaJlK3HPoBaTb 6iogXeTHUIe pacxogLI, npempaTmT   ceBepHIe
perHOHUI B  opraHRmeccyio  HacTm  o6&ero  SICOHOMH'eCKoro npocrpaHcTBa PoccMa, co3zaTb
6flaronflpHTHUe npeAwocIJIKIi JIt  pecTpyrKTyparagH 3SKOHOMHICH CeBepa. B  coBox-flHOCTH C
peaJIu3arguez  gpyrHx  HarIpaBJIeHH1X  pe4opMHpoBaHHA  pOCCHZCKOZ  3KOHOMHKH  3-To  6ypeT
cnoco6c-moBaTb npHiBJIeeHHIO HHBCCTzHflHi H o6u1eMy 03;ROpOBfeHH1O 3KOHOMHNeCKC ciiyatlmH
B ceBepHuIx TeppHTOpHsX.
Hageemcaq, Yro pyiOBIoaCTBO Z CoBeT gHpenTopoE EaHKa rio MOCTOHHCTBy OgeHarr MacTrra6
3aAatl, KOTOpue npegcTouT periaTb IlpaBHTenSCTBy POCCHH AJIA KOpeHHoro  nepeycTporcTBa
9eC3THJIzeTHqMH 4opMHpoBaBiueroca CogHaJIbHo-siKoHoMHqIecKoro ymaga Ha 3HaHHTeJlbHoH  iaCTH
TeppaTOppH  HameH CTpaH J.
C rJIy6OiCHM yBa)KeHHeM,
3amecTHzT,eIIb UpegcegaTez3i IIpaBHTeCILcTBa
POCCHeZCKOii clegepaguH
- 114-



Additional
Annex 14
Financial Scheme for Project Implementation
NORTHERN RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Operations Manual Copy 01
Section 6. Financial Scheme of Project Implementation
Edition 1.0 Date
This document contains confidential infortmation, which is property of the Northern Restructuring Project. It may not be copied or used
for purposes that are not envisaged by its contents, or if it is not authorized by the respective management staff of the Northem
Restructuring Project. This document shall be returned to the staff responsible for its storage and record at first demand.
6.1. The scheme of funds and documents flow in connection with Housing allowances within The
Northern Restructuring Project
Minfin of Russia
Central Bank of Russia                                                                                 a      es
-    15           The Fedral                  the Federal Treasury
Corresponding                       Treasury of    *-11
1                Department of MOF          12            Russia
17                                1
142
I                    L                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Branches of
_   1      l                                    T                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sberbank
IBRD               Chief Administrat  of        2          SberBank                      bok   account
Fundsblceacon
13~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
13  |  Migrant         9
1'6                      FER5
Seller of thousin
101
115 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



I .   IBRD and the Russian Federation (Minfin of Russia - representative of the Russian Federation for
the purposes of the Loans) sign the Loan Agreement on the Northern Restructuring Project (Project), xhich
provides for allocation of a part of loan proceeds for financing the Migration Assistance Program under the
Project.
2.     Minfin of Russia and the Chief Administrator of Funds According to the Budgetary Code )f the
Russian Federation the Chief Administrator of Funds is a Governmental Agency of the Russian Federation,
obtaining the right to allocate the funds of the Federal Budget between the lower administrators and
recipients of the Budget funds, determined by the interagency classification of the federal tudget
expenditures. Due to the decisions taken during the negotiations on the Northern Restructuring Project the
Chief Administrator of Funds is to be determined in the Government Decree on Migration Assistance
Program by the time of the Project effectiveness sign with Sberbank of Russia the Agreement on servicing
the Migration Assistance Program under the Project.
3.    The Owner of the Certificate (a migrant) submits the Housing Certificate in the Sberbank branch
in receiving region and opens the target blocked account. On the assumption of Housing Subsidy amo-mt in
lUS dollars , determnined by the Local Project Implementation Unit, the Sberbank branch calculates the
amount of Housing Subsidy to be paid in the ruble equivalent according to the official exchange rate of the
Bank of Russia (exchange rate of US dollar to the Russian ruble) on the date the account was opened and
makes the corresponding mark in the Certificate.
4.     The Sberbank Branch informs the Territorial Body of the Federal Treasury and the Central office
of Sberbank, Moscow about: (1) opening of the target blocked account by the Certificate Owrer (a
migrant), (2) amount of Housing Subsidy to be paid under the Certificate in rubles, calculated according to
the official Bank of Russia exchange rate of US dollar to Russian ruble on the date of opening the account,
(3) number of the Certificate, (4) full name of the Certificate owner.
5      The Certificate Owner (a migrant) concludes a Contract with a housing seller on ho asing
sale/purchase in rubles (with determnent payment).
6.     The Certificate Owner (a migrant) submits an original Contract to Sberbank branch and gives an
order to Sberbank for the transfer of Housing Subsidy amount in rubles (and his own money) t) the
account of a housing seller. Sberbank checks: (1) identity of the Certificate owner and conformity with that
indicated in the contract on housing purchase, (2) conformity of the Housing Subsidy amount to be paid,
calculated on the date of opening of target blocked account and indicated in the Certificate with the
purchase price of housing indicated in the Contract, (3) transfer of the own money of the Certificate Owner
(a migrant) to a target blocked account (in case if the purchase price exceeds the amount of su'sidy
indicated in the Certificate), (4) check of the selling/purchase contract (signatures, seals (for legal entities),
requisites of contract parties, special notes of the Body, carrying out the official registration of property
rights).
7.     Within I day after the selling/purchase Contract is checked Sberbank branch submits to the
Territorial Body of the Federal of Treasury a copy of the Contract together with an application for m:ney
transfer in rubles to the target blocked transit account.
8.     Within 5 working days the Territorial Body of the Federal Treasury independently make, the
payment order and transfers the money of Housing Subsidy to the target blocked transit account thraugh
the correspondent account of Sberbank branch, for further transfer of this money by the Sberbank branch
- 116-



to the target blocked account of the Certificate Owner.
9.     Within 3 days after receipt of Housing Subsidy money in RUR from the Territorial Body of the
Federal Treasury Sberbank branch transfers the amount of money in accordance with the request of the
Certificate owner to the account of the housing seller opened in any Russian commercial bank and informs
the Territorial Body of the Federal Treasury and Sberbank of RF, Moscow, on the payment made by
sending (1) a copy of the memorandum order, (2) blocked account statement showing the date of
transaction and the amount transferred, (3) copy of the payment order, (4) blocked account statement
showing the date of transaction and the amount transferred.
10.    Sberbank branch sends to the Noncommercial Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and
Financial Institutions Development (hereinafter - FER), which is the Agent of MOF, to the Chief
Administrator of Funds the copy of housing sell and purchase Contract, the original Certificate with the
reference mark of housing paid and also the copies of the documents, stated in para 9 of this document and
confirming the fact of payment.
1l.    The Territorial Body of the Federal Treasury informs The Federal Treasury on the effected
payment by sending: (1) notification stating the amounts of expenditures incurred after the transfer of
Federal Budget funds for paying off the Housing Certificates and sections, subsections, target budget
items, types of expenditures, economic classifications and sources of financing (federal budget revenue
and/or federal budget revenue received from the territories) and (2) application for support of Housing
Certificates payment with funds from the Federal Budget specifying sections, subsections, target budget
items, types of expenditures, economic classifications and sources of financing, full name of Certificate
owner, series and number of the Certificate and the ruble amount paid. Copies of notification and
application are also faxed to FER.
12.    The Federal Treasury passes the notification and application, received from the Territorial Body of
the Federal Treasury to the corresponding department of MOF.
13.    FER compares the data of notification, received from the Territorial Body of the Federal Treasury
with the Housing Certificate stub, received from the Local Project Implementation Units (LPIU). If the data
on housing certificate, indicated in the application is true, FER prepares the draft Register list of Budget
funds transfer (or consolidated Register, if the applications are simultaneously received from several
recipient regions) with indication of target budget item, type of expenditures, classification, amount in
rubles and necessary comments. If FER finds a mistake, it informs the corresponding Territorial Body of
the Federal Treasury and the Chief funds Administrator. In order to correct the mistake Territorial Body of
the Federal Treasury takes appropriate measures provided for in the Russian Budget legislation, and
informs FER. In case of no mistakes FER sends the Draft hard copy of the Register to the Chief Funds
Administrator together with the covering letter, signed by the authorized representative of the FER.
14.    The Chief Funds Administrator, basing on the documents received from FER, prepares the original
of the Register in the PPS format of the Federal Treasury and hands it over to the corresponding
department of MOF via e-mail and also in a hard copy with the signature of authorized representative for
the reflection of expenditures at the account of the Chief Funds Administrator, incurred by the payments
for purchased housing under the Certificates and for carrying out the inter-payments of the Federal
Treasury with the Territorial Body of the Federal Treasury, if the payment for housing was made at the
expense of the Federal Budget revenue, received from the recipient region.
15.    Corresponding department of MOF signs off the received Register and hands it over to the Federal
- 117-



Treasury, which reflects the payments effected at the account of the Chief Funds Administrator.
16.   Upon the receipt of the documents confirming the payment for purchased housing from Sberbank,
FER makes their comparison with the Register and prepares and sends to the standard application for
reimbursement from the Loan account. The Application is signed by authorized representatives of Minfim
of Russian and/ or Chief Funds Administrator and /or FER. At that the method of statement of
expenditures is used, when all initial documentation remains in FER. In case, the period of time frorn the
date the target blocked account was opened and the recalculation of Certificates dollar equivalent ino the
ruble amount was made to the date MO of IBRD receives the reimbursement application does not eKceed
120 days the reimbursement application should be prepared in US dollars, at that the recalculation of ruble
expenditures into US dollars is done according to the official exchange rate of the Bank of Russia on the
date the account was opened (i.e. in fact the reimbursement is done according to the nominal Certificate
value in US dollars). In case, the period of time from the date the target blocked account was opened and
the recalculation of Certificates dollar equivalent into the ruble amount was made to the date MO of IBRD
receives the reimbursement application exceeds 120 days the reimbursement application should be prepared
in rubles for the amount transferred by the Territorial Body of the Russian Treasury to the Sbe-bank
branch.
17.   Upon the receipt of application IBRD checks it and in case of no objection charge off funds from
the loan account and transfers them to the Minfin account, indicated in the application. If the
reimbursement application is prepared in US dollars then the amount indicated in the application is charged
off in US dollars. If the application is prepared in rubles, then the amount in US dollars, converted
according to the intemal IBRD exchange rate at the date of payment, determined in the Loan Agreement
should be charged off. At that IBRD submits to the Minfin of Russia and FER the written confirmatio)n of
the exchange rate, used for the processing of this application.
6.2. Scheme of Funds and Document Flow as regards the transportation subsidy provided to the
Project participants from the Susuman district of the Magadan region
Basic Legal Documents:
Loan Agreement on  the Northern Restructuring Project (between the Intemational Bank for
Reconstruction and Development  (IBRD) and the Russian Federation (Minfin of Russia -
representative of the Russian Federation for the purposes of the Loan).
Project Implementation Agreement between Minfm of Russia, Ministry of Economic Development and
Trade, Non-commercial Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Instit.tions
Development (FER), Administration of the Susuman District, Magadan Oblast.
- 118-



Administration of
Susuman District
Minfin of Russia               .
district budget account )
Supervisory
Appropriate Department |                                      Board
II                       15         /r
5      4               /      / 
s  ]  /   /14/   9 1 3 | Pilot Project participant
///            | 0   ~~12  11
FER           .//                lI   l_
Transportation Agency
Main stages of the Scheme:
1.    According to the Project Implementation Agreement the Administration of the Susuman District,
Magadan Oblast sets up a Local Project Implementation Unit, LPIU as a department of Administration
with its own budget account.
2.     A Project participant submits to the LPIU an application for the participation in the Project
according to the standard form.
3.     The Coordination/Supervisory Council reviews and approves lists of Project participants prepared
by the LPIJ and the application to the FER for Certificates forms. The Application shall indicate the total
amount of the Migration Allowance in US dollars for each Project participant without splitting such
amount into the housing and transportation components. After the lists are approved, the LPIU sends these
documents to the FER.
4.     Upon receipt of the lists of Project participants, applications for Certificate forms with total
amounts of migration allowances in US dollars, the FER prepares and submits to the Ministry of Finance a
consolidated application for issuance of the Certificate forms for this pilot territory.
5.     Based on an appropriate order, Minfin of Russia issues and hands over the Certificates to the FER.
The FER organizers delivery of the Certificates to the LPIU.
6.     Upon receipt of the Certificates by the LPIU and based on the application of a Project participant
about breaking the migration allowance into the housing and transportation components, the LPIU
repeatedly prepares Project participant lists, indicating the total amount of the Migration Allowance in US
dollars and its breakdown into the Housing and Transportation Allowance for approval by the Coordination
/ Supervisory Council.
7.     The Coordination / Supervisory Council at its next meeting approves for each Project participant
the dollar amount of the Migration Allowance broken down into the Housing and Transportation
Allowances in the same currency and prepares appropriate Minutes. A copy of the Minutes is handed over
by the Coordination / Supervisory Council to the LPIU and then sent to the FER.
- 119-



8.     Based on the Minutes of Coordination / Supervisory Council meeting, the LPIU prepares and
hands over to a Project participant an Extract from the Minutes, indicating the dollar amount of the
Migration Allowance, and its breakdown into the Housing and Transportation Allowances.
9.     The LPIU prepares and sends to the Transportation Agency an Extract from the Minutes of the
Coordination / Supervisory Council meeting, indicating only the Project participants, who allocate a
portion of their Migration Allowance to cover transportation costs with indication of the amount in US
dollars.
10.    Calculation of the amount of Transportation Allowance, denominated in US dollars and to be paid
in Russian Rubles is made either by the LPIU or the Transportation Agency (this will be agreed later).
Option 1: Calculation is made by the LPIU. A Project participant apply to the LPIU and the latter
makes for him (1) a preliminary calculation of Transportation Allowance amount to be paid in the
Rubble equivalent according to the official present-day exchange rate of the Bank of Russia. (the
exchange rate of US dollar to the Russian ruble); (2) a preliminary calculation of the transpor:ation
costs based on the official tariffs of the Transportation Agency. If the cost of transportation services
exceeds the amount of the Transportation Allowance in Russian Rubles, the LPIU notifies a Project
participant about the amount, he needs to pay in addition using his own money. On the same iay a
Project participant should apply to the Transportation Agency for receiving an invoice.
Option 2: Calculation is made by the Transportation Agencv. With the Minutes Extract, confirmir,g the
Transportation Allowance amount, denominated in US dollars, a Project participant applies to the
Transportation Agency, which calculates the cost of transportation services and also calculates
Transportation Allowance amount to be paid in the Rubble equivalent according to the olficial
exchange rate of the Bank of Russia on the date of making out an invoice.
In case of any of these options, the date, when the recalculation of the Transportation Allowance into the
Russian rubbles was made, should be the same as the date of the Transportation Agency's invoic,, for
recalculation the exchange rate of the Bank of Russia (the exchange rate of US dollar to the Russian ruble)
on the date of the Transportation Agency's invoice is used.
11.    The Transportation Agency makes calculation of the cost of transportation services required by a
Project participant:
Option l: If the cost of transportation services in Rubles does not exceed the Ruble equivalent of the
Transportation Allowance, the Transportation Agency enters into agreement with a Project participant
for transportation and delivery of a container (if transportation of a container was requested i and
makes out 2 invoices in his name: (1) an invoice for passenger tickets; (2) an invoice for delivery of a
container.
Option 2: If the cost of transportation services in Rubles exceeds the Ruble equivalent of the Project
participant's Transportation Allowance, the Transportation Agency enters into agreement with a
Project participant for transportation and delivery of a container (if transportation of a container was
requested) and issues 3 invoices in his name: (1) an invoice for an additional amount to be paid cut of
Project participant's own funds (either for passenger tickets or for container delivery); (2) an invoice
for passenger tickets; (2) an invoice for delivery of a container.
The Transportation Agency issues invoices with indicating VAT amounts in a separate line. All invoices
- 120-



have to bear the same date, be issued for one Project participant and contain his identification passport
data. Originals are given to a Project participant for presenting them to the LPIU and for making payment
from it's own funds.
12.   If the Ruble equivalent of the Transportation Allowance exceeds the transportation costs, a Project
participant pays out of his own funds upon the invoice with the exceeding amount, receives from the
Transportation Agency a receipt, indicating the invoice number, amount paid and the date of payment, and
submits it together with the original invoices and other documents to the LPIU.
13.    Upon receipt of invoices, the LPIU checks: (1) identity of a persons to whom transportation
documents are issued and conformity with those indicated in the Certificate; (2) calculation of the
Transportation Allowance Rubble equivalent based on the exchange rate of the Bank of Russia on the date
of invoice; (3) accuracy of invoices made out for transportation services (signatures, stamps, requisites of a
transportation company, extraction of VAT in a separate line) and accuracy of agreement concluded for
container transportation and delivery services; and (4) when necessary, the availability of a receipt,
confirming the payment of the own money of the Project Participant. The check-up may be followed up by
2 options:
Option 1: If all required documents are available, properly issued and the Transportation Allowance is
properly calculated, the LPIU accepts documents for payment, enters data about the Transportation
Allowance into the data base of the Project, prepares a Consolidated Reference Document and a
payment order for 100% of services upon the Transportation Agency's invoice to be covered out of the
Transportation Allowance of a Project participant and the co-financing funds of the Susuman District
Administration, and makes the payment from its budget account to the account of the Transportation
Agency. The Consolidated Reference Document. The Consolidated Reference Document consists of:
full name and identification data (passport) of a Project participant, number of the Coordination /
Supervisory Council meeting Minutes with approval of such Project participant, amount of the
transportation subsidy in US dollars, number and series of the Certificate, transportation subsidy
amount in Russian Rubles calculated as on the date of the Transportation Agency' invoice, date and
number of invoice, the exchange rate used for calculation, an additional amount paid by a Project
participant, a VAT amount payable with co-financing funds, an amount payable with loan funds.
contains information about amounts of all Transportation Allowances payable for a day and is
prepared as a matrix, signed by a LPIU Chief Accountant and LPIU Head, and attested with the LPIU
seal.
Option 2: If submitted documents are not complete, improperly issued, have mistakes in the calculation
of the Transportation Allowance, the LPIU rejects the documents and notifies thereof in writing a
Project Participant and the Transportation Agency on the reasons for rejection.
14.   Every week the LPIU prepares an application in Rubles for reimbursement of costs incurred by the
Administration for financing Transportation Allowances for a previous week and sends such application to
the FER with attached Consolidated Reference Document and initial confirming documents. A package of
initial confirming documents consists of the following: (1) the Consolidated Reference Document; (2)
copies and originals of the Transportation Agency' invoices; (3) copy of the Transportation and Delivery
Services Agreement (when transportation of a container is covered); (4) receipt, confirming the payment of
a portion of transportation services by the Project participant; (5) payment order with bank's remark that
the LPIU has covered transportation costs of a Project participant. . The form of application is similar to
the one used for requesting funds for the LPIU financing out of the loan proceeds.
- 121 -



15.    The FER checks documents received from the LPIU, verifies received data with the lists of Froject
participants approved by the Coordination / Supervisory Council of the pilot territory and wi :h the
Certificate copies.
Option 1: If all required documents are available and properly issued, the FER prepares a payment
order to reimburse the amount of transportation costs paid by the LPIU/ Administration agair.st the
Transportation Agency's invoices less a VAT amount. Funds are transferred from the Special Account
of FER to the Susuman Administration budget account or any other account that may be specified by
the District Administration. All initial documents are kept in the FER.
Option 2: If any required documents are lacking or improperly issued, the FER rejects to pay, filly or
partly, and notifies in writing the LPIU about the reasons for rejection.
16. The Special Account is replenished using the statement of expenditures (SOE) method and in
accordance with the IBRD standard procedures.
6.3. Financing LPIU costs from Loan proceeds
Legal basis for financing the LPIU expenditures out of the IBRD Loan proceeds are determined in the Loan
Agreement between the Russian Federation and IBRD, in the Agency agreement between the Ministry of
Finance of the Russian Federation, between the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of the
Russian Federation and also in the Project Implementation Agreement between the Ministry of Finarce of
the Russian Federation, between the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of the Russian
Federation, regional Administration, Administration of a pilot territory and FER, providing in particular,
obligations of FER on financing of a certain part of LPIU expenses out of the IBRD loan and obligations of
a Pilot territory to the Ministry of Finance, represented by FER, on Project implementation and subm: ssion
of reporting on co-financing.
General procedure of financing of LPIU expenses (by expenditure lines) out of the loan proceeds is
described below. Detailed procedures of payment and the composition of supporting documentaticn are
described in the Instructions to the Pilot territories on Project implementation.
1.    Remuneration and social payments
Within the Project implementation period different specialists on different terms will be hired for work in
LPIUs. They will be employed under civil contracts (consultant contracts) with the FER. Payments will
be made by the FER through transferring the Loan funds from the Special Account to personal accouits to
be opened by the above consultants at the Sberbank. Social and income tax payments to the budget will be
made by the FER from Loan proceeds.
2.     Procurement of equipment and non-material assets
Depending on a pilot territory this expenditure line includes procurement of the following items: computers,
software, office equipment, and furniture. It is more appropriate to procure fixed assets under three party
contract between the supplier of equipment, Administration of a pilot territory - recipient and FER-payer.
At that, if the contract amount does not exceed $ 50 000, the City Administration or LPIU (assisted by the
FER) selects the supplier based on comparing at least 3 proposals from suppliers and selecting the lowest
bid. Once the FER approves the selection results, the parties sign the contract. As the most prooable
- 122-



variant for the contract to be concluded is the one with the term of 100% advance payment, the following
procedure of payments under the contract will be used. After the contract is signed the supplier bills an
invoice to the FER. FER verifies it with the contract terms and in case of no objection makes the payment
to the suppliers account. After the payment is received the supplier loads the goods (see the scheme below).
The goods are accepted by the Administration of a pilot territory (quality and quantity acceptance).
Administration
Suppliers     1  .contract _   /LPIU - recepient  1. contract _    FER - payer
-4. equipment
3. payment
4. invoice
The other option for procurement of fixed assets the contract to be concluded by the Administration of a
pilot territory. At that, the supplier is paid out of the funds of Administration with the further
reimbursement of expenditures from the special account to the account of Administration. In this case
Administration of a pilot territory prepares and sends to the FER the reimbursement application on
expenditures incurred and in addition to the usual supporting documents enclose the copy of a payment
order with the bank's reference mark, confirming the payment. Below the reimbursement scheme is
presented.
l.contract1
. 2.invoice          v               _ -5.reimbursement application
Supplier                             Administration                                  FER
6.reimbursement of
*  3.payment                         expenditures incurred
4.equipment
3.      Communications
Communication costs include e-mail services, Internet services and inter-city telephone calls.
The following is to be financed from the loan proceeds and from the funds of federal level co-financing:
* In Vorkuta - Internet services;
* In Susuman District of Magadan oblast - Internet services for the LPIU in Susuman District and
e-mail services and inter-city telephone calls for the LPIU branch in Moscow region;
* In Norilsk - Internet services.
Payments for communication services are to be rnade upon the applications of Administration of a pilot
territory in accordance with the procedure described above in item 2 of this subsection.
- 123-



Inter-city telephone calls for Susuman LPIU (Moscow region) is paid based on detailed listing of telephone
calls and application from the Administration.
4.     Car rental
Car rental should be provided under transport service contract with a transport company, taxi company or
private person (duly licensed individual entrepreneur). Payments under the contract may be effected upon
the application sent by Administration and using one of the above schemes, described in item 2 c(f this
subsection.
5.     Travel expenses
Travel expenses for LPIU consultants working under civil (consultant) contracts with the FER will in zlude
hotel expenses and ticket fare. Travel expenses for LPIU staff members includes hotel expenses, ticket fare
and per diem.
Business trips of LPIU staff members are to be authorized by the LPIU Head (if LPIU is establishec as a
legal entity) or by orders of the City Administration Head (if LPIU is established as a department of Pilot
territory Administration). I all cases these business trips are subject to prior agreement and approval e. f the
Project Manager at the FER.
For business trips of LPIU staff members travel expenses will be paid by the City Administration / _PIU
with the subsequent reimbursement of costs from the Special Account. For that, Administration/- PIU
prepares an application for reimbursement of expenditures signed by the authorized person from the
Administration, and send it to the FER together with supporting documents confirming travel expenses,
including advance payment report.
For business trips of LPIU consultants working under civil contracts with the FER, ticket fare and hotel
expenses will be paid from the consultant's own funds with the subsequent reimbursement of costs fromn the
Special Account. To this end, consultant will submit to the FER financial report on the business trip in the
form specified in the Operations Manual together with supporting documents confirming travel expenses.
FER will verify the financial report and attached documents and, in case of no objections, transfcr the
payment from the Special Account on the consultant's account at the Sberbank.
6.4. Arrangements for counterpart funding of Project implementation by the Pilot territories
Below general procedures of co-financing of Project implementation by the Pilot territories is presented. It
describes the procedures of co-financing by separate items of project expenditures. More detailed
procedures of co-financing and the composition of supporting documents are described in the Instructions
on Project implementation for the Pilot territories.
Upon the order of the Administration Head the financial department is to perform the systematic and
subject oriented inspections on verification of target oriented use of budget funds, allocated fs r all
expenditure items of co-financing under the Project (consolidation, transportation costs (Vorkuta, Norilsk),
VAT of transportation costs (Susuman District, Magadan Oblast), office rent, salaries, social and rther
corresponding charges . The copies of Inspection Acts are to be send to the FER and are to be used duiring
the Project audit.
- 124-



1. Transportation costs (Vorkuta and Norilsk). Costs related to the out-migration of Project participants to
new places of residence include transportation costs of the migrant and members of his/her household, as
well as luggage transportation costs (not more than a 5-ton container per household).
Transportation costs will be paid through covering the expenses incurred by the migrant rather than
through providing a cash subsidy. In accordance with the established procedure, migrant will pay for the
ticket and container, and afterwards provide the documents confirmning the costs incurred to the authorized
agency under the City Administration (LPIU in Norilsk). The agency will reimburse the incurred costs
from municipal budget funds provided by the City Financial Department or by the funds of other project
participating agencies on the Pilot territory. As an exception, the City Administration may consider a
possibility to provide advance payment of tickets and containers for especially needy categories of
migrants.
All primary documents on transportation costs will be kept at the City Administration/LPIU and subject to
regular audits by the City Financial Department.
LPIU accounts transportation expenses incurred during the Project implementation, includes this data into
co-financing reporting and sends it to the FER on the quarterly basis.
2. Payment of tax (VAT) component of transportation costs of Project participants from the Susuman
District. Magadan Oblast
Procedures of  transportation allowance amount determination, scheme of funds flow, including
arrangements for transportation costs tax component payment by Susuman Administration, and also
corresponding document composition and flow is determined and described in details in subsection 6.2.
For securing the fulfillment of it's obligations conceming payments for the tax component of transportation
costs, every year Susuman Administration is allocate necessary amount of funds under the secured budget
line, in the regional Budget.
LPIU is to record funds, assigned and spent by the Administration for tax and other duties payments,
connected to the Project participant's transportation costs. These data and corresponding source and
supporting documentation are to be included into the report on co-financing on a quarterly basis.
3. Consolidation costs: costs related to the demolition of released housing and social infrastructure.
Consolidation starts along with the out-migration, and should be completed about 6 months after the end of
out-migration process.
The determination of agency responsible for consolidation activities is specific to each participating pilot
territory.
Consolidation funds are allocated based on estimated cost of demolishing 1 sq. m of housing according to
the rates established for wooden, frame-and panel and other types of housing stock.  Completed
consolidation works will be certified in completion reports.
All primary documents on consolidation costs are to be kept at the authorized agency.
- 125 -



Records of consolidation costs are '.ept based on quarterly reports on the allocation of funds with attached
copies of payment orders prepared by the financing agency. Reports are to be submitted to the LPIU to be
included in the consolidated counterpart funding report and sent to the FER.
4. LPIU operational costs are covered from two funding sources: from Loan proceeds, and from
counterpart funds provided by the Pilot territory Administration.
The following costs are to be financed out of counterpart:
*   Wages and social payments of LPIU staff  Supporting documents under the above expenliture
category is to include information with detailed indication of charged and paid wages and ,ocial
payments as certified by the chief accountant and stamp of the Administration.
*   LPIU office rent. Office rent includes the rent itself, operational costs of the lessor (security
services, cleaning) and operational costs of outside organizations (energy, heating, water stpply,
etc.). The costs of the last two office rent components are to be included into the rental rate. RFental
cost is estimated as an averaged cost based on proposals of conmmercial real-estate agencies r on
the assessments of independent appraisers or is determined by the terms of corresponding --ental
agreement.
Accordingly, each of the following documents may be accepted as a supporting one: invoices, issued in
connection with terms of a rental contract; proposals of real-estate agencies; letter from the independent
appraisers confirming the assessment of the cost of the premises.
- 126-



IBRD 30825
I          ~~~~RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                   "l"' ."fSUSUMAN/MAGADAN__
NORTHERN RESTRUCTURING PILOT PROJECT   S%                                                                                           M eio  AINIROADE                                AMlo>
CELASTS IN PROJECT                                       Se                     UUMANARDISTRICT (.pp-iMaTe~,
OBLAST, KRAI, OR REPUBUC BOUNDARIESAUO                                                 GSOBSTR
S-                           ~~~~~~~~~~REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES  E-TSb                                                          Y Y.
'SWEDEN    Lk-"  '           c      "7    Sop to oS                                        AGD        p   oo,Omuc
r                                                     S~2  &So~                                                          TyoyA
OOA 'FINLAND                           K.      5o                                                     p       k                                                                         ~,  o~oo
CL~~~~~   ~~            TA/M R~~~AG                                                                                     K1 ) 
7-  .~ *-~UktkOkhot5k                                                                                                                                  \       *Co,GA                                                                 A N
BELARUSk ,-KOI                                    , 
02 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/3  NOtIT,,  r30                                                                                                                                                         0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.y
NoTk   6loloycAg.~~JAA
00  C  "'Y  '''' -V                                                   /                                                                                V                        N C61ymc6,u
\   h  I  TokOoo'okooo                                                oboroo,IE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I~
k4RlV09l    0 u/-                                                                                                  AA           ~Kit RO/S OO"~ 
0Cholyobo                                          3                                                                             I               I -C-k .,.1~    "P
K AZ AK  ST      T A     0 N,I               00p00 U,o                         CHINA         iV- N-l
73<    so.  0 100 000 300 200 00000oI0\"o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                            100            00                                                                              da
TI                                                ~~~~~~~~~~     ~       ~~~~~~          ~~KILOMETERS  Y ~ ~ - - --~o            aoocy               -
VORKUTA   MUNICIPALITY                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~Tsem,entzavodskoy  PILOT SETTLEMENT
INDUSTRIAL SITES      NORILSK  INDUSTRIAL AREA,-
N P~~~oooysober.oy  - ~    ~      x                   UIL-UPAREAS                                                                        ,---- -     -O
- - - ~~~~~~ 4  0           EUILT.UP ~~~~~~~~~INDUSTRIAL SITES                                  ~0DOD                                 .     -       
Ii>         N         L -                               SeVUTRYL     -  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~VORKUJTA MUNICIPAL  B  ORDER OF NOR IIK                     
BOUNDARY                      INDUSTRIAL AREA
IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN ROADS                                                .
(     /                ~~~~~~~~~MAIN ROADS            EUILT-UP AREAS
/  ogashor                               \                         o--RLUASA 61 r7j    ~ ,ohI
~~~4                                /        El    234~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5       DuOdinkO      L-  
Komso mIsky                                                    K.'~~~~                         ILOMETERS              ,,,
Zapcolyorny. A                                                                                                                                                           PZarec
/   Mulda  4, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kto05510 15 20 25 
x                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
APRIL 2000



