Report No. PID8680
Project Name                     Russian Federation-Northern (@)
Restructuring Pilot Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Other Social Protection
Project ID                       RUPE64238
Borrower(s)                      RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Implementing Agency
Address FOUNDATION FOR ENTERPRISE
RESTRUCTURING
Ministry of Economic Development and Trade
1st Tverskaya-Yamskaya, 1-3
Contact Person: Mr. A.V. Sharonov,
Deputy Minister
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                September 11, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         May 21 - June 3, 2000
Projected Board Date             December 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
The territory defined as the North by the Government of Russia covers 57
percent of the Russian land mass, most of which is tundra and permafrost.
This area contains the majority of nation's natural resources (oil,
natural gas, diamonds, nickel, etc.). Although largely located within the
Arctic Circle, industrial development of the North was among the strategic
priorities of the Soviet state. Northern enterprises received large
subsidies to cover the high costs of production associated with an
extremely harsh climate and remote location. Large-scale labor inflows to
the North were ensured by the Central Government to support the level of
economic activity. This began with forced labor camps during the Stalin
period and was later replaced by a comprehensive system of monetary and
non-cash incentives for work in the extreme conditions of the Arctic
territories. Subsidies to the Northern economy included artificially low
prices of inputs for Northern enterprises and utility companies;
centralized shipment and delivery of food and fuel to Northern territories
financed by the federal budget (commonly known as the Northern shipment);
and compensation packages for workers. The public costs incurred very
high due to the high cost of heat and housing maintenance in the North.
The Northern compensation package for workers included: (i) higher wages
through so-called Northern coefficients, (ii) publicly financed early
retirement, (iii) annual allowances for leave and travel to central Russia
and longer paid annual leave; (iv) relocation grants for transfer to the
North for long term residence and for return when nearing retirement age.
The overall system of subsidies and benefits equaled roughly 6t of GDP
annually. These policies resulted in an artificial economic structure in
the North and inflated population base that would not have developed under
market conditions.    Since 1992, the Government has been attempting to
create a viable economic base in the North by phasing out public support,
in line with the country's general transition objective towards a market



economy. The Government has significantly reduced federal subsidies to
Northern enterprises and industries, and prices for their inputs and
outputs were liberalized. The federally financed Northern shipment of
food and fuel was also drastically cut. As a result, much of the Northern
industrial base is undergoing, or will require, extensive downsizing and
restructuring in order to become economical. This has resulted in
redundancies, early retirement and growing unemployment. As a result of
the policy changes at the federal level, the Northern municipalities have
been affected in the following ways: (i) lower local revenues as the
industrial base contracts; (ii) reduction in federal transfers; (iii)
higher cost of inputs for heat and energy due to price liberalization;
(iv) increased demand for housing, health services and social assistance
from a larger non-working population. This trend will be aggravated as
the transition continues. Municipalities are finding it increasingly
difficult to cope with these developments. The pressures on the Northern
municipal budgets are higher than in other areas due to the need for
year-round heating. The Northern municipal budgets are continuously in
deficit, and non-payments and wage arrears are increasing. The social
tensions are aggravated as the municipality can neither provide sufficient
services and assistance within the community, nor help people to leave the
North. The solution to alleviate these problems would be downsizing the
municipalities, which requires an initial public investment. A large
portion of current Northern residents are eager to move from these
miserable places but are stuck due to lack of financial resources. The
previous public mechanisms for the return of this population to central
Russia -- building housing in the desired location -- no longer exist.
There is a need for new mechanisms to facilitate out-migration to
compensate for distorted Government policies of the past and to assist
households to leave these areas. These will not only reduce the costs of
social services, but allow the municipalities to demolish housing, thereby
significantly reducing costs. Over time, savings from these activities
will allow the costs of the publicly financed migration program to be
recovered.The North is a case of incomplete transition. The social
tensions and the inability of the municipalities to cope with change has
slowed the pace of industrial restructuring. Enterprises are unable to
divest their social obligations (i.e. housing, transportation and
kindergartens) to municipalities and, in some cases, are forced to keep
excess labor. In turn, the federal government is unable to further reduce
the direct and indirect subsidies and transfers from the federal and local
government budgets and the extra-budgetary funds, which currently account
for about 3% of GDP. This is a cost that is fiscally
unsustainable.Government StrategyThe Government is committed to putting in
place policy changes that are necessary to create a viable economic base
in the North and improve efficiency of industrial enterprises that should
operate with limited public support. This strategy includes, inter alia,
the following elements: (i) enactment of new Northern labor and social
legislation providing for higher reliance on market forces and the
eliminating distortive incentives that currently drive in-migration to the
North; (ii) accelerating economic restructuring of enterprises through
social asset divestiture and other measures that permit industrial
rationalization; (iii) allowing market driven contractual labor practices;
(iv) permit downsizing and/or closing of non-viable communities; (v)
improving efficiency in provision of municipal and social services; and
(vi) open possibilities for restructuring through the support of
out-migration. the government has recently made an unequivocal move
- 2 -



towards eliminating inherited exclusive treatment of the Northern
population. The new Government's ten year program of reform has
explicitly set a goal of making the Northern policy a regular part of
general regional policies, i.e. eliminating all specifically 'Northern'
mandatory benefits and privileges. The Program of Priority Measures for
2000-2001 has stipulated the first steps toward reaching this objective,
including: (i) new income tax legislation eliminates privileged treatment
of Northern salary increments, (ii) unfunded and partially funded mandates
shall be cut, (iii) 2001 budget doesn't provide funds for the Northern
privileges package, (iv) mandatory benefits for non-public sectors shall
be eliminated by end-2001.
2. Objectives
The project development objective is to test a set of actions to assist
municipalities in the Russian North to cope with the effects of economic
transition. These actions include: (i) voluntary out-migration assistance
schemes for people whose economic prospects are limited, and (ii) support
to strategies to draw on potential economic benefits resulting from a
decreased population. It is expected that these pilot experiences will
serve as a basis for similar initiatives in other Northern communities,
appropriately adapted by the community to its particular requirements.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Drawing on its extensive experience in restructuring in ECA countries, and
in Russia, as well as its experience in migration and resettlement
elsewhere, the Bank is bringing valuable new elements to the design of
reform. It assist the Government and municipalities to significantly
rethink their approach to Northern restructuring and migration, with a
particular emphasis on the key role of local communities and beneficiaries
themselves in the process. Thus, the emphasis on migration assistance
together with technical assistance for local restructuring, has become
understood and accepted in the pilot regions. The benefits of this
strategy are recognized by central and regional authorities, as well as
migrants. It is expected that the policy framework for reform in the
North will be significantly modified as a result. The Bank's involvement
has served to draw in broader constituencies and helped public authorities
recognize the need for broad stakeholder involvement and collaboration to
carry out the kind of changes that are expected as the Northern economy
moves towards a more liberal environment.
4. Description
The project will have five components:The Migration Assistance Component
will include a Migration Assistance Fund, which will provide allowances to
specific groups of population in the pilot regions to facilitate their
out-migration. The migration allowances will help migrants secure housing
in the central regions of Russia. The migrants will also be provided with
transportation of their household belongings and plane/train tickets. An
information system will be developed to provide information about housing
possibilities, and regional specifics about the job market, healthcare,
education and training opportunities, climate, etc. Housing searches will
be possible though the system and a paper version of the information will
also be distributed free of charge in the pilot regions. A public
awareness program about available migration assistance will be put in
place. Assistance will be available to allow migrants to contact real
estate agencies, and legal assistance for signing housing contracts. The
-3 -



Local Restructuring Support Component will assist the pilot municipalities
sites to reduce their dilapidated and unused housing stock; as well as
implement reforms in housing and utility services management. This
component includes the following activities: (a) technical assistance to
ensure compliance with the environmental management plan for the
municipalities' demolition of abandoned and dilapidated housing and other
facilities, which will be financed by local administrations;
(b) technical assistance for institutional reforms in housing management,
including: separation of ownership, management and service delivery
functions; competitive selection of contractors for service delivery;
reform of utility tariff setting and strengthening of targeted housing
subsidy services;
(c) training of municipal staff of participating Northern pilot sites;(d)
technical assistance in other areas of local restructuring, as identified
during implementation.The Monitoring and Evaluation Component will support
monitoring of the process and evaluation of the economic outcomes of
restructuring, social aspects of out-migration and the evaluation and
dissemination of project outcomes. The program will address real time
management needs as well as the need to maximize learning from a pilot
effort. It will include exit surveys of migrants about the services
provided by the program; tracer studies of migrants regarding their
situation following migration; annual studies of economic and fiscal
impact in the pilot sites; ex-post review of the cost of housing purchased
by migrants and effects of the program on the housing market in
destination regions.The Federal Component will provide assistance to
introduce regulatory procedures aimed at supporting the gradual
deregulation of the Northern economy. This will include: (a) provision
of advisory services on legal, economic, fiscal and social aspects of
Northern restructuring for the Federal Government, its agencies, regional
authorities and legislature; (b) support for applied research of Northern
policy including principles of public policy in the North and interaction
of Northern labor market and migration to the North; (c) support for
dissemination and consesus building activities, based on the experience of
the pilot project. The component also includes the development of a
national information system on housing and other regional information (re.
migration component).
5. The Project Management Component will finance project management costs
at the central and municipal levels.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               13.87
IBRD                     79.2
IDA
OTHER SOURCES
(UNIDENTIFIED)          1.41
Total Project Cost       94.48
6. Implementation
Project GovernanceThe issues addressed in this project are
interdisciplinary and multi-dimensional. The project touches upon
economic reform, municipal restructuring, labor mobility and the social
costs of transition. These issues are handled by separate ministries and
agencies in the Government and, unlike many other projects, this project
does not fall clearly into the domain of any one ministry. Therefore
- 4 -



project preparation and implementation will be overseen by an
Inter-Ministerial Working Group (IMWG) to coordinate the different
interests. The IMWG reports to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic
Affairs and includes the Ministries of Economic Development and Trade,
Finance, Labor and Social Development; the former State Committee on the
North; the Government Apparat; and the Federal Center for Project
Finance. The IMWG is headed by the Deputy Minister of Economic
Development and Trade.At the municipal level, the project also has many
important stakeholders, who were brought together to oversee project
preparation and implementation in each pilot site. The policy changes and
restructuring elements of the project require the support of these
stakeholders in order for the changes to be successful. Therefore,
Coordination/Supervisory Councils were established in each pilot site.
These Councils are responsible for general management and control over
pilot project implementation in the respective regions. The
Coordination/Supervisory Council comprise key stakeholders in each site
including representatives of the local administration, local legislators,
major employers, major labor unions, and representatives from the
settlement to be closed.Project Implementation Arrangements. At the
central technical level, the analytical, administrative, legal, financial
arrangements of the project are being handled by a Project Implementation
Unit (PIU), which reports to the IMWG. It is located in the Foundation for
Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institution Development (FER). The
FER is a non-commercial foundation which is currently responsible for five
World Bank-financed projects, in addition to this project.     The PIU will
utilize the central units of the FER including, Management Procurement,
Finance and Accounting.Local Project Implementation Units (LPIUs) will be
established in each participating region. In Vorkuta and Susuman the
local administrations decided to establish the LPIU within the municipal
administration. They will allocate staff and resources from the local
administration for the unit. In Norilsk, the decision was taken to set up
a non-commercial entity for the LPIU that would be jointly established by
the city administration and the main enterprise. In the future, this unit
is expected to take responsibility for implementing all migration
assistance program in the city regardless of the source of financing. In
all cases some costs for the LPIUs would be covered by the loan, but most
of the financing will be from the local administrations, and some
financing from the enterprise in the case of Norilsk.The project will be
implemented over a four-year period. This assumes that there will be a
six to nine month start-up period prior to launching the Migration
Assistance Program. There will be two years of migration during the
summer months and then another year and a half for the consolidation
activities to be completed. As implementation of the MAP is constrained
to the summer months, it is critical that implementation does not fall
behind schedule or an entire year could be lost. Therefore, preparation
and pre-implementation work is being done using funds from a grant from
the Federal Center for Project Finance.
7. Sustainability
The project is expected to test replicable and affordable models for
addressing issues of economic transformation at the local level. For
these models to be replicable, the following elements are critical:the
models are affordable: i.e. the savings generated by consolidation and
economic restructuring at the local level allow the costs of the
out-migration schemes to be recovered;the models are implementable; i.e.
- 5 -



reasonable in terms of the capacity available at local levels; and
distortive incentives for in-migration are removed in order to prevent
further in-migration to the North.Regarding the first point, savings
generated by the local consolidation actions (consolidation of housing
units, reduced expenditures on utilities and maintenance) are estimated to
generate sufficient resources to recoup the costs of the migration
scheme. On the second point, careful analysis is undertaken in order to
assign the local implementation groups those specific functions that they
would be able to perform, additional consultancies and training
envisioned. With regard to the third point, the Federal Government has
been reducing transfers and subsidies to the North, and the Duma is
expected to pass a law that will eliminate special privileges for new
Northern arrivals (condition of Board presentation of the Bank loan).
Likewise, the communities themselves will be introducing economic reforms
as part of their agreement with the Federal Government in order to receive
funding for the migration program, which will reduce the artificial
attraction of the North to individuals and households that can make a
living under circumstances of a normally operating economy, i.e. one
operating according to market-based principles. Such reforms will include
in particular the gradual introduction of cost-pricing in municipal
services.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project design has drawn exhaustively on relevant national, Bank and
other donor experience both in the areas of technical design and
implementation arrangements. Several of the lessons learned are as
follows:Work directly with municipal authorities. Experience has shown
that on issues of local restructuring it is necessary to work directly
with municipal level authorities who are responsible for housing
management and will benefit from budget savings to be generated
(Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project). The project is being
implemented directly at the municipal level and the authorities are
committed to implementing reforms. This lesson was reflected in the
overall design of the project.Reform municipal services. In the Enterprise
Housing Divestiture Project, the separation of the functions of ownership
management and provision of municipal services have proven to be important
to improve efficiency, as has the competitive selection of contractors for
service delivery. These lessons have driven the design of local
restructuring plans. The transfer of relevant knowledge and experience for
these measures will be possible because the Foundation selected to
implement the Northern Restructuring Pilot Project is also responsible for
implementation of the EHDP.Provide a Safety Net when Increasing
Cost-Recovery. A sufficient safety net needs to be in place for poor
households when increasing cost recovery for utilities and communal
services. This has been incorporated into the Norilsk plan where there is
a "safety switch" to slow the increase in cost-recovery if a certain
percentage of households requires assistance to pay these bills.Use
Housing Certificates instead of housing construction. Housing construction
and assigning housing to migrants proved to be an inefficient, costly and
ineffective instrument for migration assistance. There is also a large
risk for return migration in housing construction programs due to the
limited scope of choice for migrants. Housing certificates have proved to
be a workable mechanism for allocating housing subsidies to retired
officers. Based on this experience, the Migration Assistance Fund has
been designed using housing certificates as an instrument that will (a)
- 6 -



directly allocate subsidies to the final beneficiary and (b) ensure
voluntary selection of destination and specific housing. Under the
project the certificates will be used to purchase finished housing only,
because experience has shown that when certificates are used for
unfinished housing, the subsidy transfers from the migrant to the
construction firm and is less efficient (Government housing certificate
program for retiring officers). Use of National Banking System for
processing housing certificates. Sberbank has proven to be capable of
handling the payment of vouchers through its national network of branch
offices. There are established procedures for these payments and
interaction with the Federal Treasury and local branches of the Treasury.
Sberbank is the only bank with nationwide coverage, thus it is important
that a mechanism has been established and proven in an earlier program
(Government housing certificate program for retiring officers).Effective
Government oversight. Government oversight over PIU activities is
important to ensure Government responsibility for policy and
implementation. Oversight by the Government for this project will be
achieved through two methods. The Government has established an
Inter-Ministerial Working Group for the project, which has overall
responsibility for implementation and policy.     In addition, the
Supervisory Board of the Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and
Financial Institution Development (FER), which is the PIU for the project,
includes representatives of MOF, MOE, FCPF and other concerned
ministries.Early Establishment of a Coordination Unit. Experience in
Russia shows that early establishment of a coordination unit or use of an
existing unit improves project performance. Based on this experience, the
Government decided to use an existing PIU to implement this project. In
addition, the selected PIU has also been responsible for the
implementation of the Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project which has
been critical to implement lessons learned in that project. Local
implementation units are being designed and these units will be formally
established prior to Board presentation. Further, staff training and an
Operations Manual will be provided by the PIU.Readiness for
implementation. Agreements reached during the 1998 and 1999 CPPR, and the
1999 CAS identify triggers for the readiness of projects for
implementation. These include the establishment of a functioning PIU;
procurement documents for the first year of implementation prepared by
negotiations; sub-loan agreements and implementation agreements (if
necessary) prepared by negotiations and finalized project design,
agreement on implementation and repayment arrangements by negotiations to
avoid changes between the Board date and effectiveness. This project
meets all benchmarks for readiness for implementation.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        During the PCD review this project was rated a
Category C. At that time it was expected that demolition activities would
not take place under the project. However, local administrations made
significant progress in the development of their local restructuring
plans. As a result the environmental assessment category was reviewed
again and the project was rated a Category B. Dilapidated housing and
social facilities (i.e. schools) are expected to be consolidated and
demolished under the project. These activities will be financed and
carried out under the supervision of the local administrations. The
-7 -



project will not deal with any industrial sites.During project
preparation, studies were carried out on the consolidation of housing and
infrastructure in the pilot regions. These studies have served as the
basis of the Environmental Management Plan developed for the project.
Terms of reference for the demolition of buildings were prepared to ensure
that there are no adverse environmental effects from the demolition
activities. The loan will finance technical assistance to ensure that the
EMP is followed. Local administrations and the local environmental
protection offices will also supervise the work. A draft EMP has been
developed for the demolition work to be done under this project. The
plans include measures to dispose of hazardous materials and
rehabilitation of sites following demolition.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Hjalte S. A. Sederlof
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-2524
Fax: 202-477-0711
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
September 15, 2000.
-8-



