Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4611 RU
Loan Agreement
(Northern Restructuring Project)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 11, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4611 RU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 11, 2001, between the RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS  (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter dated April 26, 
2001, describing a program of policies and actions designed to support economic 
restructuring of the Borrower’s Northern territories (the Policy Letter) and declaring 
the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the above program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Page  2
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Agency Agreement" means the agreement between MOF, MEDT and FER, 
referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Agency Agreement; 
(b)
"Beneficiaries" means any residents of the Participating Localities 
eligible according to the criteria referred to in the Government Decree on the 
Migration Assistance Program to be adopted in accordance with Section 6.01 (c) of this 
Agreement, and their households, who shall have elected to participate in the 
Migration Assistance Program under Part A of the Project, and for whose benefit any 
amounts shall be payable under Migration Assistance Allowances granted in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of such program;
(c)
"Certificate" means the certificate referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of the 
Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d)
"Environmental Management Plan" means the plan setting forth the actions 
required to mitigate the adverse environmental impacts resulting from the 
implementation of the Project, as referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
(e)
"Federal Treasury" means the Borrower’s integrated system of the Federal 
Treasury,  or any successor or successors thereto;
(f)
"FER" means the Non-Commercial Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring 
and Financial Institutions Development, a legal entity organized and established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s law "On Non-Commercial Organizations", dated January 12, 
1996, and operating on the basis of its Charter dated July 5, 1996, as amended on June 
2, 1997, registered with the Ministry of Justice on June 27, 1997, or any successor or 
successors thereto;
(g)
"Implementation Agreements" means the agreements to be entered into 
between MOF, MEDT, and FER on one side and each respective Participating Locality and 
respective Regional Project Participant on the other side, pursuant to Section 6.01 
(a) of this Agreement, as the same agreements may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Implementation 
Agreements; "Implementation Agreement" means each and any such agreement;
(h)
"IMWG" means the Inter-Ministerial Working Group of the Borrower, 
established by the Government of the Borrower pursuant to Protocol No. âã-ï2-19ïð 
dated December 4, 1998, and referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
(i)
"Instructions to the Participating Localities" means the guidelines and 
procedures for the implementation of the Project approved by the IMWG, defining the 
responsibilities of the Participating Localities and LPIUs under the Project, as the 
same may be amended from time to time;
(j)
"Local Restructuring Plan" means, for each Participating Locality, a list 
of restructuring measures designed to enable the Participating Locality to realize the 
economic benefits of the Project, and the timetable for their implementation, which 
shall have been adopted by the Participating Locality, and which are referred to in 
paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(k)
"LPIU" means the Local Project Implementation Unit established in each 
Participating Locality;
(l)
"MEDT" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, 
Page  3
or any successor or successors thereto;
(m)
"Migration Assistance Allowance" means an allowance granted to a 
Beneficiary in accordance with the eligibility criteria, rules and procedures which 
shall have been established pursuant to the Government Decree on the Migration 
Assistance Program to be adopted in accordance with Section 6.01 (c) of this 
Agreement;
(n)
"Migration Assistance Program" means the program to be established by the 
Borrower pursuant to the Government Decree on the Migration Assistance Program to be 
adopted in accordance with Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, for the purpose of 
providing Migration Assistance Allowances under Part A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement;
(o)
"MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, or any successor or 
successors thereto;
(p)
"Operational Manual" means the manual approved by IMWG containing the 
guidelines and procedures for the implementation of the Project, as referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time;  
(q)
"Participating Locality" means any of the following: the City of Norilsk, 
the City of Vorkuta and the Susuman District of Magadan Oblast; and "Participating 
Localities" means, collectively, the City of Norilsk, the City of Vorkuta and the 
Susuman District of Magadan Oblast;
(r)
"Project Management Report" means each report referred to and  prepared 
in accordance with Section 4.03 of this Agreement;
(s)
"Regional Project Participant" means any of the following:  Komi 
Republic, Magadan Oblast, and other Regional Project Participants which may be agreed 
upon between the Borrower and the Bank; and "Regional Project Participants" mean, 
collectively, Komi Republic and Magadan Oblast;
(t)
"Ruble" means the currency of the Borrower;
(u)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(v)
"Sberbank" means the Savings Bank of the Russian Federation, a commercial 
bank organized and operating under the laws of the Borrower on banks and banking 
activity, and acting on the basis of its charter registered in the Central Bank of the 
Russian Federation on June 20, 1991, Registration # 1481; and
(w)
"Value Date" means the date when the Certificate submitted by a 
Beneficiary is assigned a Ruble value by Sberbank in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the Migration Assistance Program;
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the "Project 
implementation entity" shall be deemed as a reference to FER.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to eighty 
million Dollars ($80,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, services and Migration Assistance Allowances required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in 
Page  4
Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a  bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2005, or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower  of such 
later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower  of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower or the Guarantor notifies the Bank during said period of 
Page  5
its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of the 
General Conditions, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Bank may, upon the Borrower’s request, reimburse the Borrower from the Loan Account in 
Dollars, in respect of the expenditures incurred by the Borrower in Rubles for 
financing the Migration Assistance Allowances.
(b)
For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section, the exchange rate to 
be used shall be:
(i)
in the case of withdrawal applications received by the Bank within 
120 days of the Value Date, the exchange rate in effect on the 
Value Date in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
Migration Assistance Program;
(ii)
in the case of withdrawal applications received by the Bank 
outside the 120 day period, the exchange rate, as determined by 
the Bank in its common data store, as at the date when the 
withdrawal from the Loan Account is made.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, with the assistance of FER, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, and environmental practices and with the undertakings set forth in the 
Policy Letter, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the Participating Localities and the Regional 
Project Participants to carry out their respective obligations in respect of the 
implementation of the Project, in accordance with the provisions of their respective 
Implementation Agreements, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and environmental practices, and shall cause the 
Participating Localities and Regional Project Participants to provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project, and shall cause the Participating Localities and Regional 
Project Participants to carry out their respective obligations in respect of the 
implementation of the Project, in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
enter into the Agency Agreement with FER and into Implementation 
Agreements with each Participating Locality and Regional Project Participant, all 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
exercise its rights under the Agency Agreement and each respective 
Implementation Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, and except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Agency Agreement 
Page  6
or any of the Implementation Agreements, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a strategy for the 
application of the lessons of experience of the Project in governmental policy; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said strategy.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
Page  7
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause FER to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall cause FER to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of said financial statements reflecting the 
records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year as so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time have reasonably 
requested.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period, 
which:
(a) 
(i) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report, and (ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (ii) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the Governmental Decree on the Migration Assistance Program referred to 
in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Borrower or of the Participating Localities or Regional Project Participants to 
Page  8
perform any of their obligations under this Agreement;
(b)
any Local Restructuring Plan shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
the Participating Locality or Regional Project Participant to perform its obligations 
under the Implementation Agreement or to achieve the objectives of the Project;
(c)
the Borrower shall have failed to implement any of the substantive 
undertakings set forth in the Policy Letter or shall have taken any actions which 
shall make it improbable that the program set forth in the Policy Letter, or a 
significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(d)
the Operational Manual or the Instructions to the Participating 
Localities shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations 
under this Agreement, or of any Participating Locality or Regional Project Participant 
to perform its obligations under the Implementation Agreement or to achieve the 
objectives of the Project;
(e)
FER shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Agency 
Agreement; 
(f)
any Participating Locality or Regional Project Participant shall have 
failed to perform any of its obligations under its respective Implementation 
Agreement; and
(g)
the Agency Agreement or any of the Implementation Agreements shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the FER or of any Participating Locality or Regional Project 
Participant, respectively, to carry out their obligations under the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely: 
(a) 
any of the events specified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b) 
any of the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (g) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as  additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
Implementation Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, have been executed 
on behalf of the Borrower represented by MOF, MEDT and FER, and each respective 
Participating Locality and respective Regional Project Participant; 
(b)
the Agency Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and FER;
(c)
the Government Decree on the Migration Assistance Program, satisfactory 
to the Bank, has been adopted by the Borrower; and
(d)
an agreement on housing certificate processing, satisfactory to the Bank, 
has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and Sberbank.
Page  9
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Agency Agreement and Implementation Agreements have been duly 
authorized or ratified by their respective parties and are legally binding upon all 
the parties to those agreements;
(b)
that the issuance of certificates for Housing Allowances, referred to in 
paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement, in Dollar 
denomination, and procedures for redeeming said certificates by the Beneficiaries, are 
in accordance with the Borrower’s relevant laws and  regulations currently in effect.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower or an authorized deputy 
Minister of Finance for international financial relations is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Ilyinka Street 9
103097 Moscow
Russian Federation
Telex:
Facsimile:
112008
(7-095) 915-5887
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the City of Norilsk, Russian Federation, as of the day and year first above written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By /s/ V.B. Khristenko
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  10
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ James Wolfensohn
President
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
    60,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
83% of local expen-
ditures for other items
procured locally
(2)
Consultants’ Services
 3,740,000 
100% 
and Training
(3)
Migration Assistance Allowances
100%
Paid in respect of:
(a)
City of Vorkuta
16,380,000
(b)
City of Norilsk
38,050,000
(c)
Susuman District 
of Magadan
14,850,000
Oblast
(4)
Incremental
Operating Costs
100% 
(a)
in support of FER
 3,920,000
(b)
in support of 
LPIUs
 1,730,000
(5)
Front-end Fee
   800,000
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
   470,000
Total
80,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" comprises (i) salaries and 
benefits of FER staff and consultants employed for the purposes of Project management 
(all within a range for each position acceptable to the Bank), utility charges at a 
Page  11
rate not to exceed the rate in domestic prices payable by comparable organizations, 
locally-procured office equipment and supplies, costs payable in connection with 
rental of office space, maintenance of office equipment, systems and facilities, 
insurance, training, project-related auditing services, conferences, travel expenses, 
organization and attendance of conferences and seminars, dissemination of project 
progress information,  and other ordinary and necessary costs payable by FER on 
account of Project implementation, that would be payable by entities similarly 
situated on the territory of the Borrower and customarily regarded as a cost of doing 
business, including administrative costs such as travel allowances, communications and 
related expenses; provided, however, that the expenditures hereunder shall be as set 
forth in the approved budgets which shall have been adopted pursuant to the provisions 
of paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and; (ii) reasonable and necessary 
expenditures incurred in support of operations of the LPIUs, which would not have been 
incurred in the absence of the Project, on account of the carrying out of the LPIUs' 
activities related to Project implementation, management and monitoring, including: 
consultants' services,  lease of office space, office equipment and suppliers and 
office furniture, communication, attendance of conferences and seminars, 
transportation and travel expenses including Project-related travel costs, all within 
the limits of the annual Project budget approved by the IMWG and the Bank as referred 
to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (3)(a) until the LPIU has 
been established within the City of Vorkuta; 
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Category (3)(b) until the LPIU has 
been established within the City of Norilsk; and
(d)
payments made for expenditures under Category (3)(c) until: the LPIU has 
been established within the  Susuman District of Magadan Oblast. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each, (b) services under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms and $50,000 each for individual 
consultants, (c) Migration Assistance Allowances under Category (3); and (d)  
Incremental Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower, including but not limited to the following: 
statements of expenditures shall state, for each payment made for a Migration 
Assistance Allowance, the date when the Certificate was submitted by the Beneficiary 
(the Value Date), the nominal Dollar amount of the Certificate, the exchange rate 
applied by Sberbank on the Value Date, and the Ruble amount deposited by the Federal 
Treasury to the Beneficiary’s designated account.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: test measures that will allow 
Participating Localities to realize the economic benefits of restructuring and 
facilitate the implementation of sustainable municipal policies; and thereby to assist 
the Borrower in the development of a national strategy for restructuring of the 
economy of the northern areas. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:  Migration Assistance Program 
Implementation of the Migration Assistance Program, including provision of 
Migration Assistance Allowances to Beneficiaries in the Participating Localities to 
Page  12
facilitate voluntary out-migration, and a public information campaign. 
Part B: Local Restructuring Support
(1)
Provision of technical assistance to Participating Localities and Regional 
Project Participants for institutional reforms in housing management;
(2)
Provision of technical assistance to Participating Localities and Regional 
Project Participants to ensure compliance with the Environmental Management Plan in 
the demolition of abandoned and dilapidated housing and other facilities;
(3)
Provision of training in the area of municipal management to the staff of the 
Participating Localities and Regional Project Participants; and
(4)
Provision of technical assistance to Participating Localities and Regional 
Project Participants in other critical areas of municipal policy related to local 
restructuring, as will be identified during the Project implementation.
Part C:
Monitoring and Evaluation
Carrying out of surveys and studies to monitor the implementation of the 
Project, to evaluate the economic outcomes of restructuring, and social aspects of 
out-migration.
Part D:
 Federal Policy Support
(1)
Provision of advisory services and analysis on legal, economic, fiscal and 
social aspects of the Borrower's policy reforms in relation to its northern areas. 
(2)
Development of a national information system on the housing market. 
(3)
Dissemination of Project outcomes.
Part E:
Project Management and Coordination
Support for the operations of Participating Localities and Regional Project 
Participants related to Project management, including financing of incremental 
operating costs of the FER and LPIUs. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning January 15, 2007
3,335,000
through January 15, 2018
On July 15, 2018
3,295,000
Page  13
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines), and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
Page  14
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Direct Contracting
Services for the printing of housing certificates estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $15,000 or less in the aggregate may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract procured under Parts B and C.2 and the 
first two contracts under Part C.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audit of accounts may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under small consulting services contracts and training contracts, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  15
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project, the progress of the Borrower in carrying out the 
actions and policies referred to in the Policy Letter, and the progress of the 
Participating Localities and Regional Project Participants in carrying out their 
respective Local Restructuring Plans, and other matters necessary for the achievement 
of the Project objectives;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, by June 1 of each year starting in the year 2003, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by September 1 of each year starting in the year 
2003, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in 
sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project, of the action and policies referred 
to in the Policy Letter and in the Local Restructuring Plans, and the achievement of 
Page  16
the Project objectives, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure the carrying out of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual, which shall contain the operational guidelines 
and procedures for the implementation of the Project.
3.
During the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain an 
inter-ministerial working group (the IMWG), comprising representatives of the 
Borrower’s agencies as agreed upon with the Bank, which shall be responsible for the 
overall coordination and oversight of the Project, and approval of annual work 
programs and budgets related to Project implementation.
4.
The Borrower shall cause FER to take all actions as required in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 3.01 and shall assign to FER, under the Agency Agreement, 
the responsibility for the overall Project implementation, including: (i) preparation 
and submission to the Bank by December 1 of each year, of draft annual work programs 
and associated budgets for the Project (including incremental operating costs of FER 
and LPIUs), to be reviewed and agreed upon by IMWG and the Bank; (ii) preparation of 
bidding and contract documents and the undertaking of procurement procedures under the 
Project;  (iii) maintenance of Project records and accounts and arranging for the 
audit thereof; (iv) preparation and furnishing to the Bank progress reports and 
Project Management Reports; and (v) coordination of the implementation activities with 
LPIUs.
5.
The Borrower shall cause the Participating Localities to: 
(a)
establish and maintain, during the execution of the Project, LPIUs with 
staff and resources as defined in the respective Implementation Agreements, and to 
observe terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; and
(b)
maintain, during the execution of the Project, supervisory/coordination 
councils consisting of representatives of major stakeholders in the Participating 
Localities which supervisory/coordination councils shall be responsible for overseeing 
the implementation of the Project in their respective localities, monitoring the 
activities of their respective LPIUs and cooperation with IMWG and FER; and 
(c)
cause the Participating Localities to carry out their respective 
activities under the Project in accordance with the Instructions to the Participating 
Localities.
6.
The Borrower shall ensure that Project activities are carried out in compliance 
with the provisions and mitigation measures set forth in the Environmental Management 
Plan.
7.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
take all appropriate actions to enable the Participating Localities to 
implement their respective Local Restructuring Plans, in accordance with the timetable 
set forth therein; and
(b)
ensure that no commitments shall be made under the Migration Assistance 
Program, or payments made under Migration Assistance Allowances thereunder, for any 
Beneficiaries defined as conditional Beneficiaries for each Participating Locality in 
the Government Decree on the Migration Assistance Program referred to in Section 6.01 
(c) of this Agreement, until the respective Participating Locality has established, in 
accordance with criteria established by the Borrower acceptable to the Bank, that a 
level of cost recovery for provision of housing and communal services of 40% has been 
achieved in the Participating Locality.
8.
The Borrower shall carry out, and shall cause the Participating Localities and 
Regional Project Participants to carry out, Part A of the Project in accordance with 
the Government Decree on the Migration Assistance Program referred to in Section 6.01 
(c) of this Agreement and the provisions of the Annex to this Schedule. 
Page  17
9.
The Borrower, through FER, shall complete and submit to the Bank annual progress 
reports on the implementation of the Project, in the format and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank, by March 31 of each year starting in the year 2002.
Annex To  SCHEDULE 5
Procedures for the Payment of the Migration Assistance Allowances
1.
The Borrower shall provide Migration Assistance Allowances:
(a)
to all Beneficiaries under the Project - for financing the purchase of a 
housing unit in the place where the Beneficiary intends to establish his new residence 
(a Housing Allowance for the purposes of this Annex); and
(b)
without limitation upon the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) above, to 
Beneficiaries in the Susuman District of Magadan Oblast - for financing a portion of 
transportation costs associated with the move of the Beneficiary to the new residence 
of his choice (a Transportation Allowance for the purposes of this Annex). 
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that payments for the Housing Allowance shall be made 
to Beneficiaries as follows:
(a)
Following approval of the application from a Beneficiary for the 
Migration Assistance Allowance, a certificate shall be issued to the Beneficiary, 
confirming his entitlement to the Housing Allowance, in a specific amount and valid 
for a specific period of time, and subject to any stated conditions, in conformity 
with the provisions of the Government Decree on the Migration Assistance Program 
referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, the provisions of the Operational 
Manual and Instructions to the Participating Localities.
(b)
The Beneficiary shall furnish the certificate referred to in 
sub-paragraph (a) above to the local branch of Sberbank in the region where the 
respective Beneficiary intends to establish his new residence, together with any other 
information necessary to enable Sberbank to open the designated account in favor of 
the Beneficiary.
(c)
Upon signing and registering of a contract for the purchase of a housing 
unit in the place where the Beneficiary intends to establish his new residence, the 
Beneficiary shall submit the contract, which has been executed in accordance with the 
Borrower’s laws and regulations, to the local branch of Sberbank referred to in 
sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.
(d)
After examination of the contract, the respective local branch of 
Sberbank shall request the Federal Treasury to transfer an amount in Rubles equivalent 
to the amount of the Housing Allowance provided for in the Beneficiary’s certificate.
(e)
Upon receipt of funds, Sberbank shall make a subsequent transfer to the 
designated account of the Beneficiary referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this 
paragraph.
(f)
The Sberbank branch shall transfer the appropriate Ruble amount from the 
designated account of the Beneficiary to the account designated by the seller of the 
housing unit in accordance with the contract between the respective Beneficiary and 
the seller. 
3.
The Borrower shall ensure that payments for the Transportation Allowance shall 
be made to Beneficiaries in the Susuman District of Magadan Oblast as follows:
(a)
A Beneficiary shall submit to the LPIU of the Susuman District an 
application indicating the type of transportation costs and the required amount to be 
paid from the Transportation Allowance.
(b)
Upon approval of the Beneficiary’s application, the LPIU shall transfer 
the amount of the approved Transportation Allowance to the designated transportation 
Page  18
agency.
(c)
The municipal authorities of the Susuman District shall submit an 
application to the FER for reimbursement of the costs incurred for financing 
Transportation Allowances, at such intervals and under such procedures as shall be 
specified in the Implementation Agreement between the Borrower and the Susuman 
District of Magadan Oblast.
(d)
The FER shall cause payments to be made for reimbursement of the costs 
incurred by the municipal authorities of the Susuman District for financing of the 
Transportation Allowances to the municipal authorities of the Susuman District of 
Magadan Oblast. 
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $4,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the  Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the  Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the  Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the  Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the  Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
Page  19
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the  Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the  
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
Page  20
