                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR00001343



            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (IBRD-46110)

                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 80 MILLION


                                       TO THE

                                 RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                        FOR A

                     NORTHERN RESTRUCTURING PROJECT




                                     June 21, 2010




Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                  (Exchange Rate Effective June 21, 2010)

                                       Currency Unit = Russian Ruble
                                           1 Ruble = US$ 0.0322
                                         US$ 1.00 = 31.22 Rubles

                                                  FISCAL YEAR

                                           January 1 ­ December 31

                                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS           Country Assistance Strategy                   MAP          Migration Assistance Program
Central PIU   Central Project Implementation Unit           M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
EDB           Electronic Data Base                          MED          Ministry of Economic Development
EMP           Environment Management Plan                   MEDT         Ministry of Economic Development and
                                                                         Trade
FCPF          Federal Center for Project Finance            MOF          Ministry of Finance
FER           Financial Institutions Development            MOJ          Ministry of Justice
FM            Financial Management                          MRD          Ministry of Regional Development
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and     MTR          Mid Term Review
              Development
GOR           Government of Russia                          NRP          Northern Restructuring Project
GDP           Gross Domestic Product                        PAD          Project Appraisal Document
ICR           Implementation Completion and Results         PDO          Project Development Objective
              Report
IMWG          Inter-Ministerial Working Group               PMR          Project Management Report
IP            Implementation Progress                       PR           Public Relations
ISR           Implementation Status and Results Report      RF           Russian Federation
LA            Loan Agreement                                ROSSTROY     Federal Agency for Construction,
                                                                         Housing, and Municipal Economy
HCS           Housing and Community Services                SECAL        Coal Sector Adjustment Loan
Local PIU     Local Project Implementation Unit             TTL          Task Team Leader




                          Vice President:                 Philippe H. Le Houerou
                          Country Director:               Pedro Alba
                          Sector Manager:                 Kathy A. Lindert
                          ICR Team Leader:                Ivan Shulga
                          Primary Authors:                Ivan Shulga/Betty Hanan
                                                    Russian Federation
                                               Northern Restructuring Project


                                                               CONTENTS



Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  A. Basic Information .......................................................................................................i
  B. Key Dates....................................................................................................................i
  C. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................i
  D. Sector and Theme Codes .......................................................................................... ii
  E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................. ii
  F. Results Framework Analysis..................................................................................... ii
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ....................................................................iv
  H. Restructuring (if any)..................................................................................................v
  I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................v

  1.       Project Context, Development Objectives and Design.........................................1
  2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................7
  3.       Assessment of Outcomes ....................................................................................17
  4.       Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome...................................................22
  5.       Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ...............................................22
  6.       Lessons Learned..................................................................................................27
  7.       Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.....28

  Annex 1.  Project Costs and Financing.....................................................................31
  Annex 2.  Outputs by Component ............................................................................33
  Annex 3:  Economic and Financial Analysis............................................................39
  Annex 4.  Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .......43
  Annex 5.  Beneficiary Survey Results......................................................................45
  Annex 6.  Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results .............................................46
  Annex 7.  Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................47
  Annex 8.  Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................80
  Annex 9.  List of Supporting Documents .................................................................81
  MAP IBRD 30825 .........................................................................................................82
A. Basic Information
                                                                            Northern Restructuring
Country:                Russian Federation        Project Name:
                                                                            Project
Project ID:             P064238                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-46110
ICR Date:               06/22/2010                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            RUSSIAN
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:
                                                                            FEDERATION
Original Total
                        USD 80.0M                 Disbursed Amount:         USD 34.7M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 34.7M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process            Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:        12/03/1998     Effectiveness:             08/15/2002         08/15/2002
Appraisal:             05/22/2000     Restructuring(s):                             03/20/2007
Approval:              06/07/2001     Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                   09/30/2005         09/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Substantial
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
                                                                            Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:
                                                                            Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing                Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:            Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower            Moderately
                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:                Unsatisfactory




                                                  i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      8                    8
Other social services                                                 88                  88
Sub-national government administration                                 4                    4


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Improving labor markets                                               33                  33
Municipal governance and institution building                         33                  33
Other economic management                                             17                  17
Social analysis and monitoring                                        17                  17

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Pedro Alba                           Julian F. Schweitzer
Sector Manager:            Kathy A. Lindert                     Michal J. Rutkowski
Project Team Leader:       Andrei R. Markov                     Andrei R. Markov
ICR Team Leader:           Ivan Shulga
ICR Primary Author:        Ivan Shulga
                           Betty Hanan


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project development objective was to test measures that would allow participating
localities to realize the economic benefits of restructuring and facilitate the




                                                ii
implementation of sustainable municipal policies; and thereby assist the Borrower in the
development of a national strategy for restructuring of the economy of the northern areas.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target    Formally         Actual Value
                                             Values (from      Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval        Target          Completion or
                                              documents)       Values          Target Years
                Reduced expenditures emerging in the local budgets resulting from the reduced
Indicator 1 :
                population and closure of buildings.
Value           USD 326 mln annual        USD 25.0 mln                      USD 20.7 mln
quantitative or municipal budget          annual budget                     cumulative budget
Qualitative)    spending                  savings                           savings
Date achieved 01/01/2003                  09/30/2005                        09/30/2009
Comments
                PARTIALLY ACHIEVED. The 4th wave of out-migration (out-migration
(incl. %
                campaign) was not launched.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                   approval                         Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                  documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Quantity of applications handed for participation in the Project.
Value                                                                            10,082 applications
(quantitative     N/A                         no target set                      for 22,402
or Qualitative)                                                                  household members
Date achieved     01/01/2003                  09/30/2005                         09/30/2009
                  The PAD did not set a target for the no. of applications. However, it set a target
Comments
                  of 10,401 households to migrate (see indicator 3 below). The numbers are
(incl. %
                  derived from info in the database of the Foundation for Enterprise Restrctring &
achievement)
                  Fin Inst Dev (FER)
Indicator 2 :     Quantity of certificates issued
                                                                                 7,922 certificates
Value
                                                                                 issued for 17,592
(quantitative     NA                          no target set
                                                                                 household
or Qualitative)
                                                                                 members.
Date achieved     11/01/2008                  09/30/2005                         09/30/2009
Comments          The PAD did not set a target for the number of certificates to be issued.
(incl. %          However, it set a target of 10,401 households to migrate (see indicator 3 below).
achievement)      The numbers are derived from information in the database of the FER.
Indicator 3 :     Quantity of households that have migrated.
Value             N/A                         10,401 households                  4,527 households


                                                 iii
(quantitative                                                                (10,028 people)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2003                  09/30/2005                         09/30/2009
                PARTIALLY ACHIEVED. This number is based on three waves of out-
Comments
                migration. The 4th out-migration, which was to start in August 2008, did not
(incl. %
                materialize because of numerous delays with approval of necessary
achievement)
                documentation. It reached 44%.
Indicator 4 : Level of cost recovery from population change during the year
Value
(quantitative   N/A                       N/A                                N/A
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2003                  09/30/2005                         09/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        This indicator was not monitored.
achievement)
                Volume of consolidated housing and social infrastructure (total number of
Indicator 5 :
                buildings and square meters), including cumulative data
Value
                                                                             642 buildings
(quantitative   N/A                       no target set
                                                                             (404,689 sq meters)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2003                  09/30/2005                         09/30/2009
Comments        ACHIEVED. Since no volume was specified, one can argue that this target has
(incl. %        been met although much more could have been accomplished if the 4th wave
achievement) had taken place.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                        IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     06/28/2001          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     12/21/2001         Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                    0.00
  3     06/26/2002         Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                    0.00
  4     12/30/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     1.30
  5     06/25/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     1.98
  6     09/04/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     2.92
  7     04/28/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     7.65
  8     06/15/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     8.92
  9     12/22/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   11.64
 10     06/14/2005          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   13.58
 11     06/14/2006          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   28.97
 12     12/15/2006          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   32.58
 13     07/06/2007          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   33.72
                                                       Moderately
 14     02/17/2008     Moderately Satisfactory                                         34.22
                                                      Unsatisfactory
 15     08/13/2008         Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                   34.68
 16     12/24/2008          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    34.80


                                                 iv
 17    06/18/2009   Moderately Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory           34.80


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Expansion of project scope to
                                                     other
 03/20/2007       N       S       S          33.25   municipalities and increase
                                                     level
                                                     of migration subsidy




I. Disbursement Profile




                                              v
vi
vii
1.         Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

                                                   
                                                  
                  supporting the social
     3                                           4


protection sector of the Russian Federation.

1.1        Context at Appraisal

Until 1991, industrial development of the North was among the strategic priorities of the
Soviet State. Largely located within the Arctic Circle, the North covers 57 percent of the
Russian land-mass and contains the majority of Russia's deposits of oil, natural gas,
diamonds, and nickel, etc. Massive investments created an economic infrastructure that
required extensive federal subsidies and transfers to both enterprises and households to cover
the high costs of production associated with an extremely harsh climate and remote location.
Large-scale labor inflows to the North were ensured by the Central Government to support
the level of economic activity. This was initiated with forced labor camps during the Stalin
period and was later replaced by a comprehensive system of monetary and non-cash
incentives for work in the extreme conditions of the Arctic territories. As a result of this
policy, the North, with extremely harsh climate was saddled with a large population (10% of
the Russian population5) and an inefficient, often unviable industrial base6.

Subsidies to the Northern economy included artificially low prices of inputs for Northern
enterprises and utility companies, centralized shipment and delivery of food and fuel
financed by the federal budget. Commonly known as the "Northern shipment,"
compensation packages for workers included: (i) higher wages through so-called Northern
coefficients; (ii) publicly financed early retirement; (iii) annual allowances for leave and
travel to central Russia and longer paid annual leave; and (iv) relocation grants for transfer to
the North for long-term residence and for return when nearing retirement age. The overall
system of subsidies and benefits equaled roughly 6% of GDP annually.

Since 1992, Russia was attempting to transform its economy towards one based upon
market principles. The Government's economic program in 1992 provided a framework for
the direction of reform in the North to bring Northern policies in line with, and integrating
them into, a coherent national approach to regional management and development. The
economic program included: (i) enactment of new Northern labor and social legislation
providing for higher reliance on market forces and the gradual elimination of incentives for
3
  According to the PAD, the expected Effectiveness Date was on September 1, 2001, however, because of the glitch
in the system, both original and actual dates appear the same (August 15, 2002).

4
  The Social Protection Adjustment Loan (SPAL) was approved on June 25, 1997 and its companion operation ­
the Social Protection Implementation Loan (SPIL) was approved on June 25, 1997.

5
    Western countries with significant land within the Arctic Circle had only 1% of their population living there.

6
 Average January temperatures range from -15 to 45 degrees Celsius contributing to a cost of living that is on
average 4 times higher than in the rest of the country.


                                                            1
in-migration to the North; (ii) accelerating economic restructuring of enterprises through
social asset divestiture and other measures that permit industrial rationalization; (iii)
permitting downsizing and/or closing of non-viable communities; (iv) improving efficiency in
provision of municipal and social services; and (v) opening possibilities for restructuring
through the support of out-migration.

In 2000-2001 the Government introduced a Program of Priority Measures, including the
elimination of the Ministry of the North and presented to the Bank a Letter of Development
Policy for the Russian North. Actions under this program included: (i) new income tax
legislation eliminating mandated salary supplements and augmenting benefits for private
sector workers in the North; (ii) legislation removing the funds for Northern privileges; (iii)
planned cuts in mandatory benefits that would further reduce the federal subsidy; and (iv)
elimination of mandatory benefits for non-public sectors by early 2002. Together these
actions were to place the North on a more equal footing with other Russian regions, and
reduced its attractiveness for in-migration.

As an immediate response to the policy changes a massive out-migration started. This out-
migration was not uniform by age and social status; those who started out-migrating were the
young and educated. At the same time, there was a large increase in the share of the pension-
age population and in people who wanted to leave the North, but did not have the means to do
so. Social assessments conducted during project preparation indicated that the opportunity to
out-migrate was a high priority for many. Moreover, there were significant psychological
and physical health benefits to be derived from moving out of the North, particularly for
children.

Prior to the appraisal, the need for additional actions aimed at supporting the
disadvantaged groups of the population became clear. Reducing the financial burden in the
expensive northern environment offered the possibility for a win-win situation across the
major actors in the North. In contrast, without the opportunity to downsize at all levels, the
downward spiral of unemployment, over-burdened firms and municipalities, and reduced
federal subsidies was to make the North an even less viable location.

The Bank was requested to assist the Government in developing and testing innovative
schemes of out-migration assistance to: (i) supplement the resettlement programs with local
restructuring to help municipalities to draw the benefits from a more manageable population
base; (ii) provide support to people with limited economic prospects; and (iii) enhance the
role of municipalities and the citizens themselves in the promotion of out-migration and
restructuring.

The Project strategy was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy of June 2001 that
emphasized as key reform areas and priorities: (i) the need to devise cost effective ways of
providing assistance to residents and communities of the North, both for social and economic
reasons; (ii) establishing an enabling environment for private sector development, including
through a reduction in mandated social benefits and subsidies paid by enterprises; (iii) coping
with the economic and social effects of the downsizing of the industrial structure in the
North; and (iv) supporting the local economic restructuring to make the North economically
viable.



                                                2
1.2       Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

As per the Loan Agreement (LA), the PDO was to test measures that would allow
participating localities to realize the economic benefits of restructuring and facilitate the
implementation of sustainable municipal policies, and thereby assist the Borrower in the
development of a national strategy for restructuring of the economy of the northern areas.
The actions that were to be tested included: (i) voluntary out-migration assistance schemes
for people whose economic prospects were limited, and (ii) measures to allow municipalities
to realize potential economic benefits resulting from a decreased population. It was expected
that these experiences would serve as a basis for similar initiatives in other Northern
communities, appropriately adapted by the community to its particular requirements.

The wording of the PDO was slightly different in the main text of the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD), Annex 1 of the PAD, and the LA. The difference in wording, however,
did not alter the substance.

The Project had a single outcome indicator, listed both in the PAD and in the Minutes of
Negotiations of the Loan Agreement: reduced expenditures emerging in the local budgets
resulting from the reduced population and closure of buildings. However, the Project's
output indicators were somewhat different in each of these two documents:

      ·   The PAD's output indicators included: (i) out-migration taking place; (ii) local
          restructuring plans implemented; (iii) the effects of restructuring reflected in local
          budgets; and (iv) municipal management strengthened.

      ·   The Minutes of Negotiations output indicators included: (i) quantity of applications
          handed for participation in the Project; (ii) quantity of certificates issued; (iii) quantity
          of households that have migrated; (v) level of cost recovery from population, change
          during the year; and (iv) volume of consolidated housing and social infrastructure
          (total number of buildings and square meters), including cumulative data.

This evaluation measures attainment of indicators as per the Loan Agreement, as listed in the
ICR's datasheet.

1.3   Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

There were no revisions of the original PDO.

1.4       Main Beneficiaries

The primary target group of the Project was defined as specific categories of households
affected by economic transition or living in non-viable communities and who wanted to
move, primarily out of the North. All participants were to have the option to move to the
region (oblast) of their choice within Russia. These groups were expected to benefit from the
possibility to improve significantly the climatic conditions of their residence and to reduce
the cost of living in the regions of their new residence.


                                                     3
The target groups in each site were selected through a participatory process involving local
administrations, labor unions, employers and local groups in consultation with the Bank.
Based on the specific features of the economic restructuring taking place in the three Project
locations and on local priorities, eligibility by location was as follows:

      ·   In Susuman District eligibility was based on the downsizing taking place in the gold
          industry. A number of small mining settlements were being converted into seasonal
          settlements for a reduced number of company employees, and responsibility for
          servicing these settlements was being transferred to the gold mining companies. The
          Susuman Administration opted to provide "residual" households with an opportunity
          to move, to facilitate the downsizing process. Therefore, in addition to the households
          in the settlements to be converted to seasonal settlements, specific target groups from
          Susuman City were also included.

      ·   In Norilsk the target population was selected from economically and socially
          vulnerable households including: (i) non-working and old age populations; and (ii)
          households with characteristics that correlate with poverty (families with many
          children).

      ·   In Vorkuta the target population was to include two groups of non-working, old age
          people and all the residents of the non-viable settlement Promyshlenny, where all the
          surrounding mines had closed and 100% of housing was proved to be dilapidated.

In addition to those who were to receive migration assistance allowances, the remaining
households were to benefit from the Project, as the municipal government would be able to
provide better social services to a smaller community.

In addition to the primary target groups, other individuals and organizations not
mentioned in the PAD were expected to benefit from the Project. The federal government
was to benefit from the: (i) development of a new mechanism to support out-migration from
the North that would supplement the ongoing government programs and provide assistance to
socially vulnerable population groups; (ii) establishment of a legal framework for granting
housing subsidies and implementation of housing certificates; and (iii) reduction of the
obligation of the federal budget related to migration assistance as compared with the existing
legislative framework. Regional and municipal governments of the pilot territories were
expected to benefit from: (i) cost savings in local budgets due to release (demolishing) of the
excess public utilities and social infrastructure; and (ii) reallocation of the released housing to
people that had lived in dilapidated housing and unviable towns. Households remaining in
the participating municipalities were to benefit from the opportunity to improve their living
conditions by moving to better housing released by migrants.

In 2004 the categories of eligible migrants were broadened to enable the Project to provide
out-migration subsidies to all pensioners residing in participating localities7. The
broadening of the categories was a response to the finding that the originally proposed
category scheme did not result in the expected levels of out-migration since the eligible
categories had demonstrated low mobility and low interest in participating in the Project.
7
    RF Government Resolution   306 June 22, 2004.


                                                    4
 .5    Original Components

The Project had five components:

        Component 1 - Migration Assistance (US$76.23 million or 80% of total original
project costs) provided out-migration assistance allowances to specific groups of population
in the participating regions to facilitate their out-migration. The allowances were to help
migrants secure housing in other regions of Russia. The migrants were also provided with
transportation of their household belonging and plane/train tickets. An information system
was developed to provide information about housing possibilities, and regional specifics
about the job market, healthcare, education and training opportunities, climate, etc. The
component also supported a public awareness program about available out-migration
assistance. In addition, support was made available to: (i) allow migrants to contact real
estate agencies, and (ii) receive legal assistance for signing housing contracts.

        Component 2 - Local Restructuring Support (US$5.77 million or 6.1% of total
original project costs) assisted the participating municipalities to reduce their dilapidated and
unused housing stock as well as implement reforms in housing and utility services
management. It also assisted the participating municipalities in the management of assets and
provision of services transferred to them by municipalities in mono-industrial areas. The
component included: (i) technical assistance to municipalities and regions for institutional
reforms in housing management; (ii) technical assistance to municipalities and regions to
ensure compliance with the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) in the demolition of
abandoned and dilapidated housing and other facilities; (iii) training to the staff of
participating municipalities and regions in the area of municipal management; and (iv)
technical assistance in other critical areas of municipal policy related to local restructuring, as
identified during implementation.

        Component 3 - Monitoring and Evaluation ­ M&E (US$1.20 million or 1.3% of
total original project costs) supported monitoring of the process and evaluation of the
economic outcomes of restructuring, social aspects of out-migration and the evaluation and
dissemination of project outcomes. The M&E system was to address real time management
needs as well as the need to maximize learning from the new efforts. It included: (i) exit
surveys of migrants about the services provided by the program; (ii) tracer studies of migrants
regarding their situation following migration; (iii) annual studies of economic and fiscal
impact of the local restructuring plans in the municipalities; and (iv) ex-post review of the
cost of housing purchased by migrants and effects of the program on the housing market in
the destination regions.

        Component 4 - Federal Policy (US$3.34 million or 3.5% of total original project
costs) provided assistance to introduce regulatory procedures aimed at supporting the gradual
deregulation of the Northern economy. This included: (i) provision of advisory services on
legal, economic, fiscal and social aspects of Northern restructuring for the Federal
Government, its agencies, regional authorities and legislature; (ii) support for applied
research on Northern issues including interaction of Northern labor market with the overall
economy; and (iii) support for dissemination and consensus building activities, based on the
experience of the Project. The component also supported the development of a national
information system on housing and other regional information.

                                                  5
       Component 5 - Project Management Component (US$7.90 million or 8.3% of total
original project costs) financed project management costs for the Central Project
Implementation Unit (Central PIU) and the Local Project Implementation Units (Local PIU).

1.6    Revised Components

There were no revisions of the original components.

1.7    Other significant changes

There were four amendments to the Loan Agreement:

       ·   The first amendment, letter of January 9, 2003, countersigned on February 6,
           2003: (i) provided for delegation of responsibility for opening and maintaining
           the special account to the Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial
           Institutions Development (FER); (ii) added a new sub-category to Category (4) in
           Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement "Migration Subsidy Service" in the amount of
           US$150,000; and (iii) made changes in the provision of transportation allowances.

       ·   The second amendment, letter of December 23, 2005, countersigned on January
           27, 2006, changed the definition of the Local PIU, established in each
           participating locality to encompass also a team of consultants at the Local PIU
           Remote Office. It also included reallocation of funds (see below).

       ·   The third amendment, letter of March 16, 2007, countersigned on March 20,
           2007, extended the closing date to September 30, 2009 and made some changes in
           definitions.

       ·   The fourth amendment, letter of August 6, 2008, countersigned on August 14,
           2008, reflected the transfer of responsibility for project oversight from the
           Ministry of Economic Development and Trade (MEDT) to the Ministry of
           Regional Development (MRD).

The closing date was extended four times for a total of 48 months: (i) from September 30,
2005 to December 31, 2006; (ii) from December 31, 2006 to February 15, 2007; (iii) from
February 15, 2007 to March 31, 2009; and (iv) from March 31, 2009 to September 30, 2009.
The second was a technical extension to allow time to process Project restructuring.

The Project was restructured once. The last extension of the closing date, i.e. to September
30, 2009 was to allow time for the implementation of project restructuring. Although the
restructuring, including implementation of the fourth wave of out-migration was approved by
the Bank in March 2007, the Government's resolution to authorize its implementation had not
taken place by that time. Under the restructuring, the Project's scope was to be expanded
beyond the three participating localities. It also encompassed additional improvements in its
design, including increasing the level of the out-migration subsidy to maintain its real value
and preserve the attractiveness of the Project out-migration assistance scheme. The
restructuring was not implemented for reasons elaborated in Section 2.2. The Bank
cancelled US$45,309,468.59 at the request of the Ministry of Finance (MOF).

                                               6
There were two reallocations of loan proceeds: (i) December 23, 2005, and (ii) March 16,
2007. The first reallocation merged the 3 sub-categories (3) ­ Migration Assistance
Allowance into one to provide flexibility in the out-migration assistance allowances, which
had initially been established by each participating municipality. The second reallocation
increased/decreased amounts for certain categories/sub-categories of expenditures.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

The Loan Agreement became effective on August 15, 2002. Delays with effectiveness are
common in the Russian Federation. The Project was approved on June 7, 2001, and the Loan
took 14 months to become effective. Delays with effectiveness resulted in the first wave of
out-migration being delayed by one year. Also, in March 2007, at the request of the
Government, the Bank approved a project restructuring to expand its scope and inter alia,
include a fourth wave of out-migration. For reasons discussed under Section 2.2, the
restructuring was not implemented.

2.1    Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The ICR team rates Design and Quality at Entry as Moderately Satisfactory on the basis of
the core features of project design, the considerable analytical work to inform preparation,
including beneficiary surveys and legal analysis, consistency with Government and Bank
strategies, and complementarity with other Bank-supported projects.

The Project was innovative. The core feature of its design -- supplementing the out-
migration support with local restructuring actions -- fully reflected the PDO. It did so by
supporting participating municipalities to develop and implement local restructuring plans,
including implementing measures to help realize economic benefits resulting from a
decreased population, and allowing the municipalities to reallocate the released housing to
needy groups of the remaining population.

The Project was designed to facilitate and promote the Government's aim to create a viable
economy in the North through developing and testing of cost-effective arrangements for
assisting voluntary out-migration from Northern regions. These arrangements were to be
implemented in parallel with local socio-economic restructuring plans, and a broader set of
innovative elements of the national Northern policy.

However, there was a clear disconnect between the PDO and the choice of indicators,
which did not reflect the objectives of the Project. In addition, while the Project was trying
to reduce human suffering under extreme conditions, a fundamental element in the objectives
supported by the Project, this human element was not captured either in the PDO or in the
choice of indicators. Nonetheless, it was present in the underlying goals of the Project and
guided many of the actions of the Bank's team. More details on the choices made by the
Government and the Bank at various critical junctures of the Project are discussed under
Section 2.2.




                                               7
Quality of Project Design

Considerable analytical work was undertaken as part of project preparation. Specifically,
preparation work included two socio-economic studies followed by a socio-economic survey
to build the Project's information base, improve the understanding of the status of potential
migrants and those who had already migrated from the North, and ultimately to inform the
Project design.

The socio-economic studies found that most people had moved to the North temporarily,
expecting to work, save money and return to the mainland. Most households interviewed
and discussions in focus groups revealed that most people wanted to return to the mainland
either because they had retired or they were discouraged by the steady erosion of their
benefits. The survey revealed that the most energetic and best educated had already out-
migrated leaving behind those who had no resources to move on their own. Further, the
studies identified a high level of mistrust of officials and migration programs, including under
Federal Law 125 (on housing subsidies for citizens moving from regions of the far North and
areas of equal states), thus people had little hope that they would eventually benefit from
them. Not surprisingly, in the overall survey sample, the people with worst living conditions
were most anxious to leave, and those who were not eligible for migration support had little
expectation to leave the North.

People surveyed disliked the fact that migration programs were not transparent and gave
migrants little or no choice of destination. In fact, potential migrants felt that the principal
beneficiaries of migration support programs were housing contractors in destination sites.
Those who wanted to migrate, but had not yet out-migrated were primarily constrained by
their financial status, often due to wage and benefit arrears, as well as their perception of high
housing costs in other locations. Ninety-one percent of the respondent households said they
could not migrate without financial assistance. Seventy-five percent responded that everyone
in the household would move. While most respondents indicated little trust of institutions,
either for information or support, they indicated a relatively high level of dependency on local
government institutions. These findings demonstrated that a reasonable migration support
program would be welcomed, but it needed to be transparent, participation had to be
voluntary, and the destination preference honored. Once project locations were agreed upon,
subsequent work focused more specifically on the characteristics, needs, attitudes and
preferences of potential migrants to refine elements of the out-migration assistance program
and to anticipate the impact of the program on the beneficiaries themselves, as well as their
former and destination communities.

In addition, a detailed analysis of the existing legal framework was undertaken and a
complete list of Northern policy legislative and regulatory documents was compiled. The
system of Northern privileges was summarized, and proposals on revising the Northern
policy were prepared with recommendations made on amendments and additions to the
legislative and regulatory framework needed at the federal level.

In the view of this evaluation, there were several positive elements of the design. First,
given the rather unsuccessful experience with the implementation of other migration
programs being implemented in the North, the decision to concentrate the out-migration
process on a limited number of eligible settlements was the right one. It made it possible to
                                                 8
test measures to allow participating localities to realize the economic benefits of restructuring
as the Project aimed to assist the country in the development of a national strategy for
restructuring of the economy of the Northern areas. In addition, it made it possible to support
and follow-up implementation of local restructuring schemes more closely. Provisions for
out-migration under Federal Law 125 supported out-migration from all over the Northern
regions resulting in long waiting lists8. Second, the decision to test the housing certificate
scheme was a breakthrough to replace the prior approach under which the Government
financed construction of housing for the migrants without giving participants a choice of new
localities to migrate. The certificate scheme allowed individuals to choose the location of
their future residence rather than the program choosing a place for their reallocation. Third,
the Project was to test an incentive-based public out-migration scheme, which was to be
transparent, flexible, affordable, allowing migrants to choose the region to migrate. Fourth,
the support for local restructuring was important to help participating municipalities reduce
their dilapidated and unused housing stock and help them develop and implement reforms in
housing and utility service improvements. Fifth, assistance through the Federal component
provided support for the analysis and formulation of new regulatory procedures to promote
further restructuring in the North along market principles. Sixth, the Project supported
transparent and stable principles of fiscal relationships between participating municipalities
and regional authorities. Seventh, the Project complemented well the two Coal Sector
Adjustment Loans (SECAL I and II) by putting in the table major housing policy issues and
helping other elements of housing provision reforms (See Section 3).

Notwithstanding the above strong elements, the ICR team identified the following
shortcomings in the design. These are elaborated in more detail under Section 3. First, the
Project included a poorly designed monitoring framework, which had a disconnect between
the PDO and the output indicators. The indicators selected did not correspond to the PDO in
the Loan Agreement, and in most cases no targets were set for them. Second, the
implementation period (four years) was unrealistic given the experience with numerous
delays for loan effectiveness and implementation of projects in the Russian Federation (it
took 13 months after signing of the Loan Agreement for the Loan to become effective).
Third, the definition of eligible categories of beneficiaries was too narrow. The originally
defined categories demonstrated low mobility due to lack of own savings for co-financing the
purchase of housing, inability to move because of health status or low interest in the Project
because of the prospects for obtaining assistance from other government resettlement
programs. Fourth, the design lacked flexibility to reallocate funds among participating
municipalities on the basis of actual demands during implementation. The Loan Agreement
and the Federal Budget fixed a specific amount of financing for each participating locality.
Eventually, this was fixed through an amendment to the Loan Agreement. In addition, the
inclusion of Norilsk municipality as a pilot territory was made as a result of underestimating
the consequences of the relative economic prosperity of Norilsk and the high level of social
support provided by regional and municipal levels.




8
  More details on the differences between migration assistance schemes under Law 125 and the Project can be
found in Section X of Annex 7 (Government's contribution to the ICR).


                                                       9
Risk Assessment

The PAD identified twelve risks and six possible controversial aspects. The risks were
realistic although two of them, in the view of the ICR team, were under-estimated, as
discussed below:

      ·   "Issues identified during implementation are adjusted" was rated Modest
          identifying as a measure that supervision by the Bank and the Central PIU would
          ensure that appropriate program adjustment could be made. This proved to be
          difficult for at least two reasons. First, the narrow definition of criteria under the first
          and second wave of voluntary out-migration (2003-2004) caused slow pace of out-
          migration, which took long to correct under the third wave. Second, fixed amounts
          for migration assistance assigned to each pilot site necessitated lengthy processing of
          internal government documentation before amendments to the Loan Agreement could
          be made to allow reallocation of funds among the participating municipalities.

      ·   "Inflation does not depreciate the value of the assistance" was rated Modest. The
          argument that the subsidy amount was calculated in US dollars which should off-set
          any possible depreciation of the Ruble did not prove to be true as in fact there was
          considerable devaluation of the US dollar in relation to the Ruble. Moreover, the
          assumption that contingencies "had been included in the Project budget" to cover
          inflation did not work in practice as there was a lack of an adjustment formula for the
          size of housing subsidies at the time of implementation of the third wave of out-
          migration. This created difficulties in the selection of housing and use of housing
          certificates.

2.2       Implementation

Implementation performance can be divided into two phases: (i) between loan effectiveness
and October 2007, when the three waves of voluntary out-migration occurred; and (ii)
between the end of 2007 and September 2009, when the fourth wave of voluntary out-
migration was expected to take place.

First Phase: August 2002 ­ October 2007

The first phase, considered Satisfactory, was characterized by strong leadership from the
federal level, which ensured timely implementation of activities and close coordination with
municipal authorities. Although there were delays with effectiveness (the Project was
approved in June 7, 2001 and the Loan became effective on August 15, 2002), the Central
PIU successfully processed a number of contracts with initial financing from the Federal
Center for Project Finance (FCPF) to allow for urgent start-up activities prior to effectiveness,
including the development of the housing information system, and the public information
campaign. The June 2003 Aide Memoire reported that the migration assistance process was
gaining momentum and the Project's financial scheme based on housing certifications,
payments through the Federal Treasury and Sberbank, was working well.

The original closing date was extended from September 30, 2005 until December 31, 2006
to compensate for the one year delay in effectiveness and allow for the implementation of
                                                    10
the third wave of out-migration support. The revised scheme broadened the category of
eligible migrants enabling the Project to provide migration subsidies to all eligible pensioners
residing in participating localities.

On March 2007, the Bank approved an extension of the loan closing date by 30 months,
i.e. to September 30, 2009, and restructuring of the Project to: (i) expand its scope beyond
the original participating localities; (ii) increase the level of the out-migration subsidy to
maintain its real value and preserve attractiveness of the Project migration assistance scheme;
(iii) introduce uniform mandatory provisions for transportation costs from local budgets; (iv)
increase Government co-financing for the Federal Policy component; and (v) transfer
responsibility for financing of the Local PIUs to the participating localities. The restructured
Project was to maintain its original emphasis and combination of voluntary out-migration
assistance and local economic restructuring measures, and include a fourth wave of out-
migration.

Up to October 2007, when the third wave of out-migration was completed, implementation
had proceeded essentially as scheduled with the exception of delays in meeting conditions
of effectiveness. The Project financial scheme was working well, both the Central PIU and
Local PIUs were working effectively, the technical assistance provided under the Project had
been effective to help develop and implement instruments to generate savings for local
budgets, and the Project was providing a comprehensive approach to voluntary out-migration.

Second Phase: November 2007 ­ September 2009

The second phase was characterized by an overall lack of implementation and is
considered Highly Unsatisfactory. Despite considerable efforts by the Bank's team to
promote the resolution of issues at different levels of the federal government, the adoption of
the Government resolution endorsing project restructuring and providing for the fourth wave
of voluntary out-migration experienced significant delays (see Section 5.1 (b)). The
Government resolution was finally approved on October 2008; 19 months after the
restructuring had been approved by the Bank. In August 2008, the overall responsibility for
project oversight was transferred from the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade
(MEDT) to the Ministry of Regional Development (MRD).

During the November 2008 mission, it became clear that, for the implementation of the
fourth wave to take place, there was need for another extension of the closing date; an out-
migration campaign required at least 18 months to be implemented. It was agreed between
the Bank and the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and MRD that the Government would request a
final extension of 18 months -- until March 31, 2011.

Internal steps were also needed for the start of the out-migration scheme, including: (i)
signing the amendment to the Agency Agreement to allow the FER to implement the Project
on behalf of MRD (the Central PIU was part of the FER, which was coordinating
implementation at the time of three other Bank-financed projects); (ii) adoption of Financing
Instructions and agreement with Sberbank (commercial bank which implemented payments);
(iii) selection of participating regions and signing regional Agency Agreements with them;
(iv) establishment of the Inter-Ministerial Working Group; (v) amending the Operations
Manual according to GOR Resolution 772 and Financing Instruction; and (vi) establishment
of a project tender committee. Unfortunately, by September 2009 (10 months after the
                                                11
agreement was reached for the Government to request the extension of the closing date), only
three of the actions -- (i), (iv), and (vi) -- had been taken and the Government did not send the
request for extension of the closing date. On December 15, 2009, the MOF sent a request to
the Bank to cancel the undisbursed loan proceeds equal to US$ 45,309,468.59.

The following paragraphs address outcomes of implementation by component.

Migration Assistance Component. Although the Project did not meet its targets regarding
the number of migrants, the component was effective in pursuing a comprehensive approach
to voluntary out-migration. It supported development of the following mechanisms: (i) an
innovative migration assistance scheme, including provision of housing certificates; (ii)
logistical assistance to Northern residents migrating within Northern areas; (iii) assistance to
socially vulnerable persons migrating from Northern areas to recipient regions; (iv)
comprehensive information and legal support on migration issues; and (v) public relations
support to out-migration. However, as noted in Section 2.1, the definition of eligible
beneficiary categories was too narrow and the design lacked flexibility to reallocate funds
between participating municipalities on the basis of actual demands. Table 1 illustrates
projected and actual out-migration.
                                  Table 1 ­ Projected and actual migration
                          Projected out-migration        Actual out-migration       Realization of projections
    Pilot territories     based on PAD estimates                                               (%)
                           households       Persons     households      persons       households      Persons

Susuman district             2,114          6,002          1,428         3,338           68%            56%

Norilsk                      4,599          15,105          623          1,152           14%            8%

Vorkuta                      3,688          6,422          2,476         5,538           67%            86%

Total                       10,401          27,529         4,527        10,028           44%            36%

Local Restructuring Support Component. This component's focus and its inter-relation
with the Migration Assistance Component were sound. The component was successful in
supporting participating municipalities to develop restructuring plans to: (i) reduce dilapidated
and unused housing stock; (ii) develop and implement reforms in housing and utility service
management; and (iii) support management of assets and provision of services transferred to
them by municipalities in mono-industrial areas. The results achieved by the component
demonstrate that local administrations have benefited from substantial economic efficiency
gains thanks to the consolidation of housing and social infrastructure made idle as a result of
the out-migration process. Local restructuring plans generated US$20.7 million in cumulative
savings for local budgets due to decreased population and institutional reforms9. Table 2 in
Section 3.2 presents the economic effect of the consolidation of housing and social facilities
(more details can be found in Annex 3).



9
    Information generated by the Central PIU data base on the basis of information provided by the Local PIUs.


                                                           12
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Component.                    Although there were serious
shortcomings with the monitoring framework (see Section 2.1), what the Central PIU
monitored under the Project was effectively implemented. The M&E system included three
types of monitoring: (i) project implementation progress; (ii) economic and fiscal impact of
Project implementation; and (iii) social aspects of out-migration and evaluation and
dissemination of Project outcomes; these are further detailed in Section 2.3. As designed, the
system addressed real time management needs as well as the need to maximize learning from
the implementation of the out-migration scheme. Data was updated regularly into a database
that was maintained in the Central PIU with information provided by Local PIUs.

Federal Policy Component. This component was effective in: (i) supporting the design of
the normative and regulatory documentation for implementation of Federal Law 12510 and
monitoring of its implementation; (ii) providing advice to the federal government, regional
authorities and legislative bodies on legal, economic, fiscal and social aspects of the Northern
restructuring; (iii) establishing a comprehensive system of information and organizational
support for Northern migrants, and monitoring of migration, which helped the migrants to
implement their right for free choice of the recipient region; (iv) supporting the development
and maintenance of the housing market information system and the computerized migration
tracking database; and (v) supporting applied research on Northern policy issues, including
the budget policy in Northern areas, and interaction of Northern labor market development in
in-migration trends. The information systems were available on the web and offered valuable
initial information for potential migrants, housing search, and for establishment of contacts
with real estate agents in recipient regions. The housing information system emerged as an
instrument serving broader institutional development objectives in the areas of labor mobility,
housing market, private real estate sector development, and investment decisions for housing
developers. Unfortunately, despite repeatedly pleads from the Bank's team (recorded in Aide
Memoires) for the Government to take steps to ensure the sustainability of the system to serve
broader needs of housing markets, its sustainability has not been assured following the
transfer of migration responsibilities to MRD.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design, implementation, and utilization of M&E are rated Moderately Unsatisfactory due to
considerable shortcomings in the design of the monitoring framework, particularly the
serious disconnect between the PDO and selected indicators, and the team's failure to
correct those shortcomings during implementation. Whereas the PDO's objective sought as
an outcome the development of a national migration strategy through testing of different
measures, the outcome indicator focused on reducing expenditures of the local budgets
resulting from out-migration and output indicators focused on the actual number of
beneficiaries. The Project also failed to include targets for most indicators. Furthermore, the
PDO failed to capture the underlying Project objective of reducing human suffering under
extreme harsh climate conditions, a key consideration that influenced many decisions by the
Bank's team during implementation. There was no attempt to revise the results framework
during implementation, although the Project was formally restructured.


10
   Federal Law 125 on housing subsidies for citizens moving from regions of the far North and areas of equal
status


                                                      13
At the same time, the Project was monitored regularly during implementation. Project
progress monitoring was a key instrument of project management that ensured timely
receipt of comprehensive and regularly updated information on the out-migration process
at all stages of the assistance scheme. A number of monitoring and evaluation activities
were developed and these activities were effective in monitoring various aspects of project
implementation. The M&E system was supported by a comprehensive database designed for
the Project capable of providing three types of monitoring. This database was updated
regularly with information provided from the field. The system supported monitoring of: (i)
project implementation progress; (ii) economic and fiscal impact of the project realization;
and (iii) social aspects of out-migration. It also included data on purchases of housing by
migrants in the recipient regions. This information allowed the Central PIU and Local PIUs
to promptly address problems arising both in pilot territories and in the process of housing
purchased by participants.

The key element of the first type of monitoring was an Electronic Database (EDB), which
was updated regularly by the Central PIU. The EDB, developed at the beginning of project
implementation, included detailed information about households participating in the Project
and the history of their migration. This information was distributed to project staff weekly
and allowed them to improve project management and efficiently respond to identified
problems. The second type of monitoring was aimed at the evaluation of economic and
financial effects of the Project. This information was reflected in regular reports of Local
PIUs and Project Management Reports (PMR). The monitoring of social aspects of out-
migration contained a series of qualitative and quantitative sociological assessments aimed at
reviewing the attitude of residents of pilot territories to the Project and identifying
shortcomings of the assistance program. Three such assessments were conducted during
project implementation:

   ·   The first qualitative social assessment was conducted in February - April 2003 to
       define the attitude to the Project of residents of pilot territories. It had the following
       results:
       ¾ The amount of the housing subsidy was found insufficient to purchase housing
         outside the Northern region.
       ¾ Elderly respondents considered the certificate-based scheme of housing purchase
         as a cumbersome and technically complicated procedure.
       ¾ The existence of other more attractive migration programs in terms of the size of
         assistance discouraged some respondents in Vorkuta and Norilsk from
         participating in the Pilot.
       ¾ Young and middle-aged potential Project participants (especially in Susuman
         District) demonstrated the most favorable attitude to the Pilot and willingness to
         use the opportunities offered by the Project.

   ·   The second stage of social monitoring of migration took place from September 10
       through October 27, 2003. Data from the second stage facilitated the adoption of a
       new approach involving unification and broadening of categories eligible to participate
       in the Project. The approach was reflected in the Russian Federation Government
       Resolution No. 306.



                                                14
     ·   The third stage of social monitoring of migration was performed from September 9
         through December 8, 2004. The information gathered through this assessment
         enabled: (i) response to shortcomings on the information campaigns and performance
         of Local PIUs, and (ii) design of new approaches to define eligible categories for the
         third wave of migration assistance.

In addition, three quantitative social assessments were performed:

     ·   The first quantitative assessment (November 2003) was a survey to measure
         beneficiary satisfaction with the program. It showed that 75 percent of respondents
         were positive about the Project especially related to information and assistance
         provided through Local PIUs and the housing information database. Although only
         part of the participants used the database for selection of a specific location, the
         database helped potential participants to have an overall vision of the housing market
         in general. Participants were mainly dissatisfied with downgrading of living
         conditions as a result of moving to less comfortable apartments. Pensioners were
         among those less satisfied as they perceived out-migration not only as deterioration of
         living conditions, but as a dramatic reduction or complete loss of customary social
         protection offered in the North.

     ·   The second quantitative assessment (September 2004) identified the number of
         refusals to participate in the pilot project, as well as reasons for the refusal: (i) Vorkuta
         ­ 50%, (ii) Norilsk - 50%, and (iii) Susuman - 46%. The key factors, described below,
         were in part eliminated with the inclusion of new eligible beneficiary categories in the
         third wave of voluntary out-migration under the Project.

             ¾ Demographic composition of eligible project beneficiaries during the first and
               second waves of out-migration.
             ¾ Level of financial out-migration assistance offered under the Project, and
               novelty of certification scheme arrangements.
             ¾ Peculiar features of pilot territories selected for participation in the Project.
             ¾ Fear of out-migration to a new place of residence.

     ·   The third quantitative assessment (October 2005) identified the causes of return
         migration to Northern regions as follows11:

     ¾ The wish to work for additional years to be better off on the mainland.
     ¾ The wish to help children and grandchildren that had stayed in the North.
     ¾ Adaptation difficulties at the mainland.
     ¾ The original intension to purchase housing on the mainland and travel outside the
       North during summer.
     ¾ The wish to earn a "Northern bonus" for pension benefits.

It should be noted that no studies were conducted after the end of 2005 since the fourth wave of
voluntary out-migration did not take place.

11
   According to the Central PIU, this information captures reasons for return migration in general and not only
project participants.


                                                         15
2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The environmental impact of the Project was rated B and, on the basis of supervision
reports produced by project consultants, safeguard implementation is rated as Satisfactory.
Dilapidated housing and social facilities were expected to be consolidated and demolished
under the Project. Demolition of housing was financed with local funds and was carried out
under the supervision of the local administrations. The Project did not deal with any
industrial sites. On the basis of studies conducted during Project preparation, an Environment
Management Plan (EMP) was developed for the Project specifically dealing with demolition
aspects. The Project financed technical assistance to ensure that the EMP was followed,
including measures to dispose of hazardous materials and rehabilitation of sites following
demolition. Supervision reports from project consultants confirm that the EMP was followed
in all localities and hazardous materials were disposed off in a correct manner.

Financial Management (FM) is rated Satisfactory.               FM was systematically rated
Satisfactory and/or Highly Satisfactory during the life of the Project. Only in the
Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) of December 24, 2008, it was rated
Moderately Unsatisfactory as the overall project rating was downgraded due to lengthy delays
in taking steps to operationalize the Project restructuring. Reviews of financial management
arrangements in the Central PIU during the life of the Project demonstrated that the financial
management system, including accounting, internal controls, and reporting was effective. The
FM Department in the FER was adequately staffed and managed. FM records and reports
were submitted regularly and all of the external audits were prepared on time and with
unqualified opinions. The loan closed on September 30, 2009 after a long period of inactivity
owing to the inability of the Government to carry out a list of agreed actions for the
effectiveness of the new expanded migration scheme. The disbursements in the last year of
implementation only covered operating expenses of the Central PIU and amounted to
US$113,000. The Central PIU signed a contract for the final audit prior to the closing date,
putting aside the auditor's fee into an escrow account; the final audit is being completed and
will be available by the end of June 2010. Final project payments to consultants and operating
costs were finalized in October 2009 and, after that, the remaining balance of the Special
Account was refunded to the Bank. Only US$45.31 million or 57% of the loan proceeds was
disbursed. As noted in Section 1.7, US$45.31 million was cancelled.

Procurement is rated Satisfactory. The Central PIU managed procurement effectively.
Procurement was rated Satisfactory during the life of the Project with the exception of the ISR
of December 2008 where it was rated Moderately Unsatisfactory for reasons explained above.
Procurement under the Project included: (i) civil works (financed by local administrations);
(ii) limited amounts of goods; and (iii) consulting services procured under various types of
procurement methods as per the loan agreement.

2.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The Project successfully developed sustainable long-term structural policy changes. It
provided a comprehensive approach to support voluntary out-migration from the North and
developed a new mechanism that was successfully tested to supplement the existing
                                                16
migration programs while reducing federal and regional expenditures. It established a legal
and institutional framework which is being used to strengthen Northern region policy.

At the time of this ICR, support for the implementation of out-migration assistance is
expected to continue with financing from Law 125 as well as other programs supported by
regional authorities. For instance, recognizing the positive impact of the Project, the Norilsk
City Administration developed and is implementing a new municipal migration assistance
program that almost entirely follows the contents and procedures of the certificate scheme
offered under the Project (the only difference is the use of letters of commitment from the city
administration instead of housing certificates).

Finally, federal authorities informed the ICR team that lessons drawn from the Project
have already played an important role in adjusting and making amendments to Federal
Law 125. In its comments on the ICR, MRD confirmed the amendments being made to Law
125 on the basis of lessons learned from the Project.

3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The ICR evaluation found that the objectives of the Project were relevant and consistent
with the 2001 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and remain relevant to the current CAS,
development priorities in the sector, and of the Russian Federation. The 2001 CAS
emphasized the following key reform areas and priorities: (i) the need to devise cost-effective
ways of providing assistance to resident and communities of the North, both for social and
economic reasons; (ii) establishing an enabling environment for private sector development,
including through a reduction in mandated social benefits and subsidies paid by enterprises;
(iii) coping with the economic and social effects of the downsizing of the industrial structure
in the North; and (iv) supporting the economic restructuring to make the North economically
viable.

As noted earlier, the decision to focus initially in three localities to test measures to allow
participating localities to realize the economic benefits of restructuring was sound because
the Project aimed to assist the country in the development of a national strategy for
restructuring of the economy of the Northern areas. These were important development
priorities of both the Government and the Bank at the time of project approval. However, as
discussed in Section 2.1, the choice of Norilsk municipality as a pilot territory was made as a
result of underestimating the consequences of the relative economic prosperity of Norilsk and
the high level of social support provided by regional and municipal levels, which resulted in
much less than anticipated out-migration. Notwithstanding this, all in all, the relevance of
objectives, design, and implementation arrangements was Substantial.

3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The evaluation rates achievement of PDO as Moderately Unsatisfactory based on the
Project's failure to fully achieve its outcome indicator and most of its output indicators,
and the disconnect between the PDO and its outcome indicator. The ICR evaluation was
based on analyses of indicators and data linked to the development objectives of the Project

                                                17
as well as an evaluation of how project activities were linked to the achievement of the PDO.
First, the ICR team looked at the PDO and its corresponding outcome indicator.

The PDO, as stated in the Loan Agreement, was to test measures that would allow
participating localities to realize the economic benefits of restructuring and facilitate the
implementation of sustainable municipal policies; and thereby assist the Borrower in the
development of a national strategy for restructuring of the economy of the northern areas.
The achievement of the PDO was to be measured by "reduced expenditures emerging in the
local budgets resulting from the reduced population and closure of buildings."

The Project successfully tested the development and implementation of local restructuring
plans to facilitate the development and implementation of sustainable municipal policies
through the consolidation of housing and social facilities. According to the Government's
report, the local restructuring plans reduced expenditures and generated considerable savings
for local budgets due to decreased population, closure of building, and institutional reforms
(Table 2).

               Table 2 - Economic effect of the consolidation of housing and social facilities
                                                      2002       2003     2004      2005               2006
                                                                      US$ million
Annual budget savings from the consolidation of
                                                       3.4        5.3      8.6       11.4              14.7
residential buildings
Annual budget savings from the consolidation of
                                                       0.4        1.4      2.1       3.1               3.9
social facilities
Annual budget savings from the consolidation of
                                                       0.1        0.5      0.7       1.6               2.0
communal facilities
Annual budget savings from the consolidation
                                                       3.9        3.3      4.2        4.7              4.5
Total cumulative budget savings from the
                                                                  4.0        7.3         11.5   16.2   20.7
consolidation
Source: Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institutions Development

Recognizing the disconnect between the PDO and the outcome indicator, the ICR team
looked at other evidence to assess if the Project had contributed to developing a national
policy on out-migration. This evaluation found that the Project successfully tested: (i) a new
mechanism of Northern out-migration that supplemented the existing programs while
reducing respective expenditures; (ii) a voluntary out-migration assistance mechanism
realized with the housing certificate scheme; (iii) voluntary out-migration to areas with more
favorable climate conditions without long waiting lists and with cost of living in recipient
regions considerably lower than in the North; (iv) a new regulatory and legal framework
covering the procedures for providing housing subsidies, the out-migration process itself, and
implementation of housing certificates; (iv) a housing certification scheme, which proved to
be viable and suitable for further dissemination; (v) an advanced mechanism of monitoring
and financial control at all stages of migration; and (vi) the development and implementation
of an integrated electronic migrant information system. However, the Project partially
achieved its outcome indicator and did not achieve most of its output indicators.

3.3      Efficiency



                                                             18
The projected economic and social benefits of the Project are listed below, followed by the
results derived from project implementation. Annex 3 includes more information derived
from the Economic and Financial Analysis.

   ·   Reduced population and improved economic viability of participating
       municipalities. Between 2002 and 2007, about 100,000 square meters of housing
       released by project participants (2,300 apartments) were divested to pilot
       municipalities to upgrade the living conditions of citizens living in dilapidated and
       emergency conditions buildings and non-viable settlements. Demolition and
       consolidation of this infrastructure allowed the generation of incremental economic
       benefits that were not initially envisaged under the Project.

   ·   Assistance to up to 27,529 people to voluntarily migrate to destination of their
       choice. Although the target was not met, the Project provided comprehensive
       assistance to 10,028 people through the implementation of three voluntary out-
       migration waves. While the numbers might seem small, the human element of the
       project cannot be under-estimated. The Project provided an opportunity for voluntary
       out-migration to individuals who would have otherwise remained living under
       extreme conditions; it did so without long waiting lists, as normally experienced under
       Law 125. Lessons from the Project are being used in the implementation of
       government out-migration programs (see Section 2.5).

   ·   Comprehensive set of municipal downsizing activities.             Through the local
       restructuring component, the Project was able to test the linkages between cost
       effective migration assistance and measures on consolidation of the released housing
       stock and social infrastructure. As a result of voluntary out-migration of project
       participants, pilot municipalities received a considerable housing stock that was used
       to upgrade the living conditions of households living in dilapidated and emergency
       conditions. Technical assistance was provided to local authorities to develop key
       Northern policy areas, including the sustainable socio-economic development of
       Northern regions. In addition, instruments were developed and implemented to
       generate savings for local budgets due to reduced excessive labor and institutional
       reforms in the following areas: (i) modernization of Housing Community Services
       (HCS) management; (ii) reforms in the delivery of public communal services; (iii)
       attraction of private capital and introduction of competition mechanisms in the HCS;
       (iv) improvements in contractual relations; and (v) increasing the share of households
       in cost recovery while ensuring social protection of low-income groups and high level
       of payment collection.

   ·   Properly designed and tested mechanisms for sustainable migration support. The
       Project developed and tested a comprehensive mechanism of Northern voluntary out-
       migration that supplemented the existing programs while reducing respective
       expenditures. The tested mechanism allowed voluntary out-migration to areas with
       more favorable climate conditions without long waiting lists and with the cost of
       living in recipient regions considerably lower than in Northern regions.

   ·   Possibility of reducing transfers and subsidies to the North. The Federal budget
       liabilities on Northern out-migration (as compared to costs under the Federal Law No.

                                               19
          125) were reduced by about US$46.9 million as a result of implementation of
          activities under the Project12. The size of the housing subsidy under the Project was
          calculated based on the Russia-average price of standard housing while under Law
          125, the size of the housing subsidy was calculated based on the average cost of 1
          square meter of housing in the recipient region selected by the migrant as a place of
          new residence. Thus, people tended to select the most expensive recipient regions,
          which lead to increased burden on the federal budget.

      ·   Improved credibility in the Federal Government with the regions following
          successful experience of helping municipalities develop solutions to pressing and
          economic issues. The housing certificate scheme introduced proved to be viable and
          suitable for further dissemination under other out-migration programs. Law 125 has
          been amended and is in the process of being further amended to draw on lessons from
          the implementation of the Project. The certificate-based out-migration scheme
          developed under the Project ensured that migrants had a free choice of destinations
          areas, which was confirmed by the analysis of recipient regions. Project participants
          migrated to almost all regions of the Federation (75 regions). The preferred recipient
          regions included: (i) Belgorod Oblast, (ii) Krasnodar Kray, (iii) Kirov Oblast, (iv)
          Rostov Oblast, (v) Tula Oblast, (vi) Vladimir Oblast, (vii) Nizhny Novgorod Oblast,
          (viii) Voronezh Oblast, and (ix) Ivanovo Oblast.

3.4       Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

In line with the harmonized evaluation criteria for ICRs, the Project's overall outcome is
considered Moderately Unsatisfactory. While the Project's relevance was high, its
institutional contribution significant, and its contribution to the achievement of the
development objective considerable, this rating is based on the Project's failure to fully
achieve its outcome indicator as well as most of its intermediate indicators, and significant
shortcomings in the later part of implementation resulting in the cancellation of a large
percentage of loan proceeds. At the same time, the ICR team concluded that there were many
noteworthy outcomes to this Project meriting debate as to whether a higher rating would have
been more appropriate.           These contributions included: (i) the development and
implementation of a new mechanism of Northern out-migration that supplemented the
existing programs while reducing expenditures; (ii) putting in place a new regulatory and
legal framework covering the procedures for providing housing subsidies and implementation
of housing certificates; (iii) strengthening of out-migration policies and making them more
accountable and efficient; and (iv) development of an advanced mechanism of monitoring
and financial control at all stages of migration through the electronic migration monitoring
database.

As noted in the Quality of Entry section, a key challenge in rating the overall outcome of
the Project resulted from the serious disconnect between the Project's development
objective, which focused on assisting the Government in developing a national migration
strategy in the northern areas of the country through testing new actions, while the
outcome and output indicators selected for the Project focused on the actual
implementation of such policies. By Project closing, as stated above, the Project had

12
     This information was generated by the Central PIU database on the basis of information from Local PIUs.


                                                          20
significantly contributed to the establishment of a legal and institutional framework for
northern migration. Yet, its actual implementation of these policies fell significantly short of
expectations.


3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)    Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The Project was designed to provide assistance to the most socially vulnerable categories,
including non-working, old age population, and households with characteristics that correlate
with poverty, i.e. families with many children. Given that pensioners have proven to be a
most disadvantaged group in terms of access to public migration programs, the third wave of
the Project was focused on this category of migrants. This yielded the greatest socio-
economic benefits regarding the improved financial status of project participants. Out-
migration from Northern areas (noted for the high cost of living) to other regions enabled
people to reduce their living expenses in recipient regions due to the lower cost of health care,
transport, food, etc. Moreover, there were significant psychological and physical health
benefits derived from moving out of the North, particularly for children.


(b)    Institutional Change/Strengthening
During ICR discussions, both federal and municipal authorities recognized that project
investments resulted in substantial institutional development impacts at the federal and
municipal levels. The Project strengthened institutions and supported development of a
comprehensive support mechanism of Northern out-migration maximizing the socio-economic
benefits of the Project. Project investments also played an important role as catalyst for change
in the out-migration policy; this role was acknowledged by federal and municipal authorities
during ICR discussions. Staff highlighted the direct benefits of the Project in testing
comprehensive measures of support for out-migration, which have been analyzed for use in
federal and regional migration programs.

Each of the components supported institutional strengthening in their respective areas.
The Local Restructuring Support Component provided technical assistance to refine and
implement local restructuring plans. The Federal Policy Component provided support to:
(i) introduce regulatory procedures aimed at the gradual deregulation of the Northern
economy, and (ii) develop a national information system on housing and other regional
information. It also provided: (i) advice to the federal Government, its agencies, regional
authorities and legislative bodies on legal, economic, fiscal and social aspects of the Northern
restructuring; (ii) support of applied research on Northern policy issues including the budget
policy in Northern areas and interaction of Northern labor market development in-migration
trends; and (iii) support for dissemination of lessons learned under the Pilot Project, including
the development of information system on housing and other regional data. The Monitoring
and Evaluation Component provided support for: (i) monitoring Project progress; (ii)
economic and fiscal impact of the project; and (iii) social aspects of out-migration.

(c)    Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts



                                                 21
      ·   The housing information system emerged as an instrument serving broader
          institutional development objectives in the areas of labor mobility, housing market,
          private real estate sector development, and investment decision for housing
          developers.

      ·   Demolition and consolidation of non-viable settlements allowed the generation of
          incremental economic benefits that were not initially envisaged under the Project as
          local municipalities did not have to maintain at high costs non-viable settlements.

3.6       Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A

4.        Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

This evaluation recognizes that: (i) the Project had a substantial institutional development
impact at the federal and municipal levels, (ii) its role in testing comprehensive measures of
support for out-migration have been analyzed for use in federal and regional migration
programs, (iii) the Project promoted the development and implementation of resettlement and
local restructuring plans to improve overall financial and economic outcomes of out-
migration13, and (iv) Law 125 has and is being further amended drawing from lessons derived
from project implementation. However: (i) the fourth wave of voluntary out-migration did
not materialize because of delays in processing internal documentation, including adoption of
the Government resolution endorsing the Project Restructuring, and (ii) the excellent housing
data bases established under the Project have not been absorbed into the MRD or other
federal or regional institution to continue providing such services to potential migrants.
Taking into account the above, which puts into question the Government's commitment, this
evaluation concludes that the risk at the time of the ICR that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will be maintained is Significant.

5.        Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

The Bank's Task Team Leader (TTL) was the same during Project preparation and
implementation, except for assignation of temporary TTLs during the posting of the TTL to
headquarters on other assignments, once during preparation and once during implementation.

5.1       Bank Performance

      (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

The Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The
Bank engaged for over 18 months in high-level policy dialogue to discuss and reach
agreement on the mechanism to support and complement existing policies and programs on
out-migration from the North. The Bank promoted considerable analytical work, including
two socio-economic studies followed by a socio-economic survey to build the Project's
information base and improve the understanding of the status of potential migrants and those

13
     Annex 7 presents a matrix comparing the migration assistance schemes under the Project and under Federal Law 125.


                                                              22
who had already migrated from the North. Bank performance had some positive and less
positive elements as discussed under Section 2.1. These are:

       Positive

   ·   The Project was relevant and consistent with both development priorities of both the
       Government and the Bank.
   ·   The Project was innovative and because of no previous experience in the out-
       migration scheme to be supported, the Bank's team promoted detailed analytical work
       and a survey to inform its design.
   ·   Solid Project preparation resulted in sound identification of issues needed to be
       addressed by the Project to improve the overall policy and programs for out-migration
       from Northern regions, including: (i) the need to gradually eliminate all artificial
       incentives for migration to the North; and (ii) the need to develop and enact new
       legislation providing greater reliance on market forces, including in the area of labor
       demand in the non-budget sector and the need to introduce regulatory procedures
       aimed at supporting the gradual deregulation of the Northern economy.
   ·   The Project focused on a limited number of localities to test measures to allow
       participating localities to realize the economic benefits of restructuring.
   ·   The housing certificate scheme allowed individuals to choose the location of their
       future residence rather than the program choosing a place for their reallocation, as
       done in the past. The choice of location was a direct result of the survey where people
       had indicated that migration programs were not transparent and gave migrants little or
       no choice of destination.
   ·   The Project included local restructuring plans to complement out-migration assistance
       to permit: (i) the acceleration of settlement downsizing; (ii) reducing the size of the
       housing stock; and (iii) institutional reforms in the management of the remaining
       housing stock to help reduce the municipal costs and ensure the economic impact of
       out-migration assistance.
   ·   Project design ensured synergies with the two Coal Sector Adjustment Loans (SECAL
       I and II) by putting on the table major housing policy issues and helping other
       elements of housing provision reforms.

       Less positive

   ·   There was a disconnect between PDO and monitoring indicators, and lack of targets
       for most of those indicators. However, this evaluation recognizes that some 10 years
       ago when the Project was designed, the Bank was not as rigorous in the development
       of the monitoring framework.
   ·   The Project had an unrealistic implementation period -- four years-- when: (i)
       experience with implementation of Bank-financed projects in the Russian Federation
       demonstrated that projects took much longer to be implemented, and (ii) the Project
       was testing "new grounds" which was likely to take longer to develop processes and
       gain the trust of numerous stakeholders at the federal and municipal levels as well as
       potential participants.
   ·   The Project included a narrow definition of beneficiary eligibility categories.
   ·   There was a lack of flexibility in the Loan Agreement to allow for the reallocation of
       funds among participating localities on the basis of actual demands. Given the high

                                               23
          level of internal procedures necessary in the Federation to agree to changes defined in
          legal agreements, it was important to build flexibility within the legal instruments to
          allow for changes in the allocations.
      ·   The Bank did not recognize the merits of a Mid Term Review (MTR), which was not
          planned for at entry.
      ·   The Bank underestimated the factors prevailing in Norilsk, which would reduce the
          attractiveness for out-migration. Living standards in Norilsk were relatively high and
          historically the city had also had a high level of social services provided to the
          population.

(b)       Quality of Supervision

The Bank's performance at supervision is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. In assessing
the quality of supervision, this evaluation took into account the team's overall commitment to
the objectives of the Project and its engagement with the Government to ensure its success.
From the beginning of project implementation, the Bank's team promoted close collaboration
between federal and municipal authorities and between the Central PIU and Local PIUs. It
provided guidance during and between missions and worked with federal and local authorities
to help resolve implementation issues that arose.

As previously stated, project implementation can be divided into two phases, a more
successful one until the end of 2007, and a highly unsatisfactory one between the end of
2007 and project closing. The World Bank team's commitment to the objectives and human
dimensions of the project -- particularly to provide a chance to more people to benefit from
the possibility of significantly improving their living conditions by out-migrating from the
North -- was unwavering throughout implementation, as the evidence below presents. In
doing so, in the view of this evaluation, the Bank's team was understandably reluctant to take
a harsher stance and supported extensions of the closing date when, under other
circumstances or with another project, the many internal delays within government would
have likely resulted in the closing of the loan much earlier.

In this context, this evaluation finds that the Bank's team displayed considerable efforts to
try to expedite the implementation of actions by the various ministries of the federal
government through meetings and telephone conversations with officials from MOF, MEDT
and MRD, high level meetings between the Deputy Minister of MEDT and the Bank's
Country Director, and follow-up letters to confirm agreement of actions to be taken. Apart
from several exchanges between the Bank's team with MOF, MEDT and MRD, the following
actions were taken by the team during the period May 2007 ­ September 2009:

·         Letter dated May 4, 2007 to the Deputy Minister of MEDT highlighting key project
          operational milestones and dates for implementation following project restructuring.
·         Mission of December 2007 and follow-up letter to the Minister of MEDT noting the
          need to accelerate the signing of the Government's resolution endorsing the fourth
          wave of out-migration.
·         Letter of February 22, 2008 to the Minister of MEDT to follow-up on the lack of
          action and expressing concern that the adoption of the Government's resolution had
          been postponed to the end of March 2008.


                                                  24
·       Mission of June 2008 and follow-up letter to the Minister of MEDT noting concern
        that since the beginning of 2008 there was no progress in: (i) implementing the Project
        and the transfer of responsibility to coordinate project implementation from the MED
        to MRD, and (ii) delays with the adoption of the government's resolution.
·       Mission of November 2008 where meetings took place with the Ministries of Finance
        and Regional Development to identify bottlenecks and help resolve them.
·       Meeting in December 2008 between the Deputy Minister of MRD and the Bank's
        Country Director to help move the process forward.
·       Letter of December 15, 2008 from the Bank's Country Director to the Minister of
        MRD to stress the need to take action on pending matters to enable the restructuring
        of the project and the implementation of the fourth wave of out-migration.
·       Letter by the Bank's Country Director to the Minister of MRD outlining outstanding
        issues.
·       Mission of June 2009 and follow-up letter from the Bank's Country Director to the
        Minister of MRD noting that only one of the various agreed steps had taken place ­
        establishment of the Inter-ministerial working Group - and requesting that other
        actions be taken by certain dates.
·       Meeting between the Deputy Minister of MRD and the Bank's Country Director
        several weeks before the loan was to close.

Other positive points and shortcomings of supervision can be summarized as follow:

    Positive Aspects

    ·   Missions were effective in reviewing aspects of Project specific progress and
        challenges. For the most part, Aide Memoires reported on progress towards achieving
        the PDO.
    ·   Team composition was good, including participation of a Social Scientist and an
        Urban Specialist during the early stages of project implementation. Financial
        management guidance was systematic and timely.
    ·   The Bank's team effectively supported collaboration between municipalities and their
        operating agencies and helped solve disagreements, as well as promoted close
        collaboration between federal and municipal authorities and between the Central PIU
        and Local PIUs.
    ·   Financial management and procurement guidance was timely and effective.
    ·   Aide Memoires and ISRs identified key implementation issues and provided
        recommendations on how to solve them.

    Less positive aspects

    ·   No Mid-term Review (MTR) was undertaken, which could have helped identify issues
        and put in place mechanisms to solve them fairly early during the implementation
        process. Although neither the main text of the PAD nor the Loan Agreement
        mentioned a MTR, Annex 1 of the PAD -- under output by component -- indicated
        that that monitoring would be reported at the beginning of the Project and at the MTR.
    ·   The Bank's team could have taken the opportunity to restructure the results
        framework as part of project restructuring.


                                                25
(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Overall, Bank performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory on the basis of the Bank's role in
quality at entry described in Section 5.1 (a) and quality of supervision addressed in Section
5.1 (b).

5.2     Borrower Performance - Moderately Unsatisfactory

(a)     Government Performance: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Coordination between the Central PIU, Treasury, and Sberbank was excellent. The Inter-
Ministerial Working Group (IMWG) provided good guidance during the early stages of
Project implementation. Changes in composition of the IMWG were necessary after the
transfer of responsibilities for Project oversight. However, for reasons explained below, the
IMWG met only once (April 28, 2009).

Earlier and later stages of project implementation were affected by variations in
government performance.         Apart from delays in meeting internal conditions for
effectiveness, during the early stages of Project implementation, there was a high level of
commitment at all levels to implement the Project and actions were taken in a timely manner.

Later stages of project implementation were complicated by numerous delays in reaching
agreements on intra- and interagency key documents. This problem became particularly
acute at the stage of restructuring. Despite the fact that the Government Resolution on the
restructuring of the Project was taken on October 22, 2008: (i) the establishment of the Inter-
Ministerial Working Group with a new set of members was carried out only on March 30,
2009, and (ii) the supplementary Agency Agreement to allow the FER to implement the
Project was signed only on September 14, 2009. Such substantial delays eventually led to
the curtailment of work on its extension and expansion to additional Northern territories.

(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance - Moderately Unsatisfactory

Early stages of project implementation were characterized by strong commitment and
ownership of the Project by the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade14. The
Ministry demonstrated strong leadership and the Deputy Minister participated actively on
mission discussions and some field visits to participating municipalities. Recognizing the
importance of broadening the categories of beneficiaries given the initial experience during
the 1st and second wave of out-migration, agreement was reached by MEDT and the Bank to
restructure the Project to expand its scope and coverage.



14
 The Ministry of Economic Development and Trade became the Ministry of Economic Development after a
Government reorganization.


                                                    26
However, later stages of project implementation, following the approval by the Bank in
March 2007 of project restructuring, were characterized by lengthy delays in processing of
internal documentation. These are elaborated in various parts of this document, but the most
serious ones included the delays in the transfer of responsibilities for project oversight from
MEDT to MRD; adoption of the Government's resolution to proceed with the fourth wave of
out-migration; signing of the agency agreement to authorize the FER to implement the
Project on behalf of the MRD; and ultimately the partial cancellation of the loan proceeds.

The Central PIU played a strong role in coordinating project implementation at the federal
and municipal levels. The Central PIU was staffed with a competent cadre of staff. It
provided timely guidance to the Local PIUs and coordinated well activities with the MOF,
MEDT, and the Bank. Financial and procurement management functions provided by the
Central PIU were effective and timely. The Central PIU was successful in implementing the
Project's progress monitoring system, which generated weekly monitoring reports showing
the status of the Migration Assistance Component. These reports were developed using the
project database, which was regularly updated. The Central PIU produced Project
Management Reports (PMRs) in a timely manner, which not only reported on progress by
component, but also identified issues and a way forward.

Local level implementation was appropriate. Participating municipalities demonstrated
strong commitment toward the Project and its local restructuring, economic and social
objectives. The pilot municipalities contributed more counterpart funds than had been
originally envisaged. Participating municipalities established the Local PIUs during early
stages of implementation and maintained them with adequate staff throughout the period.
Both the Susuman and Vorkuta Local PIUs were particularly effective and proactive in
supporting beneficiaries at all stages of the application process for out-migration assistance,
including counseling and providing information to participants, and tracking their progress
through each stage of the out-migration process. While at the initial stages of Project
implementation the Norilsk City Administration did not demonstrate much interest in the
implementation of the Project, as the Project progressed and demonstrated positive social,
financial, economic and institution impact, the city administration increasingly showed its
support to the Project. In addition, recognizing the positive impact of the Project, the city
administration developed and implemented a new municipal migration assistance program
that almost entirely followed the contents and procedures of the certificate scheme offered
under the Project.

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

As discussed above, performance of the various agencies was mixed. However, given the
substantial delays in reaching agreement on intra- and interagency key documents, which
curtailed project implementation, and ultimately resulted in the lack of implementation of the
fourth wave of out-migration, the overall Borrower performance is rated Moderately
Unsatisfactory.

6.     Lessons Learned

The main lessons drawn from the implementation of this Project are the following:



                                                27
      ·   Sensitive policies require deep institutional roots for sustainable implementation.
          Development cannot depend on one ministry's champion. The turnover of
          management and staff within the MEDT and transfer of responsibility for Project
          oversight from MED to MRD, hindered project performance at a crucial time of
          project implementation when decisions had been taken for its restructuring.
      ·   Strengthening governance is essential to any reform. Both the Federal and Local
          restructuring components provided support to develop and/or amend federal and
          municipal reforms in housing and utility services management as an integral part of
          increased management capacity of the federal and municipal level.
      ·   A multi-sector approach can increase the reach and effectiveness of program
          activities. In this Project, the Government's approach was to include key ministries,
          which were critical to migration policy -- Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economic
          Development, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Regional Development, and local
          administrations.
      ·   The comprehensive approach to voluntary out-migration was essential in the
          effective demonstration of the cost-effective interventions supported by the Project.
          The out-migration supported included essential elements such as voluntary out-
          migration, choice of recipient location, local restructuring plans, comprehensive
          information, and public relations campaigns.
      ·   Monitoring and evaluation systems must be a core ministry function, not merely a
          PIU reporting obligation. The excellent housing data bases established under the
          Project have not been absorbed into the MRD or other federal or regional organization
          to continue providing such services to potential migrants.
      ·   Projects' design should build flexibility to adjust on the basis of experience during
          implementation; project legal documentation should reflect this flexibility and
          implementation particularities should be included in the Operational Manual. Two
          aspects affected Project implementation ­ narrow choice of eligibility categories and
          lack of indexation formula to adjust for inflation or depreciation of the US dollar
          against the Ruble. In this context, a MTR could have been helpful to help resolve
          these issues in a timely manner.
      ·   Selection of a limited number of participating municipalities and using a pilot as
          the vehicle was the right instrument to test measures to support and expand out-
          migration.

7.        Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)       Borrower/implementing agencies

The federal and local authorities contacted by the ICR mission commented positively on
the role the Project has played in helping improve the overall policy for out-migration. The
MRD commented that Federal Law 125 has been and is being further amended drawing on
lessons produced by the implementation of the Project.

In its comments on the draft ICR, the Ministry of Regional Development: (i) clarified two
important dates on the implementation of the project; (ii) requested the rephrasing of a
statement under Section 5 (b) regarding discussions during the meeting between the Deputy
Minister of MRD and the Bank's Country Director; and (iii) provided details on the
amendments being processed under Law 125. This ICR incorporates these comments.

                                                 28
Commenting on the draft ICR, the Ministry of Economic Development made two main
statements. First, it requested that the overall outcome of the Project be upgraded to
Moderately Satisfactory, noting "that the Project managed to produce outcomes relevant for
the Russian Federation. In addition to budget savings achieved in the course of its
implementation compared to the current public financing of northern resettlement activities,
the Project was instrumental in designing and introducing a new resettlement program, a
regulatory framework for such program, as well as in improving the current government
resettlement programs." Second, the Ministry requested consideration to upgrade the
Borrower's performance to Moderately Satisfactory emphasizing "that during the first three
waves of resettlement from the North (2002-2006), executive authorities and organizations of
the Borrower provided all-round support to the Project, and the above unsatisfactory rating of
the Borrower is based on delays and ultimately cancellation of the fourth wave of
resettlement (2007-2009)".

The ICR team reviewed the comments from the Ministry of Economic Development and
concurred that there was solid progress in project implementation up to 2007, as
recognized in the ICR. Further, the team recognized that had the fourth wave materialized
with good results, the ICR would probably give a higher rating for development outcome.
However, it was also agreed that the lack of progress for two full years significantly affected
the Project's achievement of its overall development objective. Many families in the North
were given false hope about out-migration. Therefore, the partial fulfillment of early results
must be balanced by the cost of inaction at the end. As such, the ICR team decided that a
Moderately Unsatisfactory rating was a better reflection of the overall development outcome.
Likewise, the Government's performance, which curtailed implementation in the last few
years of implementation, resulted in the Moderately Unsatisfactory rating.

The full Borrower's contribution to this ICR is included as Annex 7. Comments submitted
by various Government agencies have been taken into account and introduced as far as
feasible in the final version of this ICR.

(b)    Cofinanciers

       N/A

(c)    Other partners and stakeholders

       See (a) above




                                                29
30
Annex 1.           Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)15


                                                                           Actual/Latest
                                             Appraisal Estimate                                        Percentage of
              Components                                                   Estimate (USD
                                              (USD millions)                                            Appraisal
                                                                              millions)
Migration Assistance                                   72.44                    30.72                         42
Local Restructuring Support                             5.27                      7.31                       139
Monitoring and Evaluation                               1.13                      0.36                        32
Federal Policy                                          3.20                      3.28                       102
Project Management                                      7.45                      5.39                        72
                  Total Baseline Cost                   89.49                      47.07                     53
Physical Contingencies
                                                         3.39                       0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                         1.56                       0.00
                Total Project Costs                     94.44                      47.06                      50
Front-end fee IBRD                                       0.80                       0.80                     100
        Total Financing Required                        95.24                      47.86                      50


(b) Financing


                                                       Appraisal             Actual/Latest
                                                                                                    Percentage of
               Source of Funds                         Estimate                Estimate
                                                                                                     Appraisal
                                                     (USD millions)         (USD millions)
Borrower                                                 13.87                  13.17                      95
World Bank                                               80.00                  34.69                      43
Borrowing Country's Fin. Intermediary/ies                 1.37                      -                       -
TOTAL                                                    95.24                    47.86                    50




15
   These amounts are from Annex 3 of the PAD ­ Estimated Project Costs. The data sheet in the PAD had slightly different
numbers.


                                                             31
(c) Project Cost by Category (in USD Million equivalent) 16

                                              Appraisal Estimate                 Actual
                                                                                                      Percentage of
              Categories                       (USD millions)                 Disbursement
                                                                                                       Appraisal
                                                                             (USD millions)i
(1) Goods                                               0.06                        0.05                      83
(2) Consulting Services                                 3.74                        3.71                     99
(3) Migration Assistance                               69.28                       25.04                      36
(4) Incremental Operating Costs                         5.65                        5.09                     90
(5) Unallocated                                         0.47                          -                        -
   Total Project costs                                 79.20                       33.89                     43
                    Front-end fee                       0.80                        0.80                     100
   Total                                               80.00                       34.69                      43




16
   These amounts are from Annex 6 of the PAD ­ Estimated Project Costs. The data sheet in the PAD had slightly different
numbers.


                                                             32
Annex 2.      Outputs by Component


          Component        Planned outputs at Appraisal                Actual outputs/outcomes at ICR
Component 1 -          (a) Implementation of the migration        (a)       The MAP was implemented. A
Migration Assistance   assistance      program         (MAP).     new voluntary out-migration assistance
(US$ 76.23 million)    Introduction of allowance (housing         scheme was introduced and tested, that
                       subsidy) to eligible groups of             included: (i) a housing certificate, (ii)
                       population in the participating regions    definition of eligible categories, (iii) a
                       to facilitate their voluntary out-         specific formula for allowance
                       migration, including information and       determination (housing subsidy).
                       legal assistance to review housing         -The Project provided: (i) information
                       contracts.                                 assistance through a real estate
                                                                  information system and other information
                                                                  systems developed under the Project to
                                                                  provide information about living
                                                                  conditions, climate, labor market to assist
                                                                  potential migrants, (ii) a comprehensive
                                                                  legal framework regulating the MAP
                                                                  under the Project, and (iii) logistical
                                                                  assistance to socially vulnerable persons
                                                                  migrating from Northern areas to recipient
                                                                  regions.
                                                                  -4,527 households and 10,028 people out-
                                                                  migrated with support of the Project.
                                                                  -Migrants received legal assistance to
                                                                  facilitate the purchase of new houses in
                                                                  the new localities.

                       (b) Implementation of the registration     (b)       Municipalities tested and
                       procedures for participation in the        successfully implemented procedure of
                       MAP.                                       registration and selection of participants.

                       (c) Implementation of the procedure        (c)     A mechanism of interaction
                       of selection of participants and           between out-migrants and local authorities
                       calculation of benefits.                   was facilitated with participation of Local
                                                                  PIUs.

                       (d) Organization of information            (d)      Active information and PR
                       campaign for the population.               campaign at the municipal level was
                                                                  developed, including provision of
                                                                  advertisements and information materials
                                                                  by the Local PIUs, and cooperation with
                                                                  the press and web-based media.

                       (e) Effective provision of information     (e)      Two information systems
                       to population of participating             (information system on housing market
                       municipalities related to housing, jobs,   and electronic information system
                       travel costs.                              "Migration") were developed under the
                                                                  Project. They included information about
                                                                  the real estate market, regional labor
                                                                  markets, healthcare, education and training
                                                                  opportunities, climate in recipient regions,
                                                                  etc.

                                                33
         Component        Planned outputs at Appraisal               Actual outputs/outcomes at ICR

                      (f) Provision of transportation.           (f)      Migrants received assistance for
                                                                 transportation of their household
                                                                 belonging and train/plane tickets.

Component 2 - Local   (a)      Provision of technical            (a)      Investigation and analysis of
Restructuring         assistance and training to the             municipal policies and facilities were
Support (US$5.77      municipalities to implement and            conducted to identify priority areas for the
                      monitor the reforms envisaged in the       provision of technical assistance and
million)
                      local restructuring plans to assist        training. The following areas were

                                                                 
                      municipalities to:                         identified:

                                                                 
                                                                            inter-budget relations;
                                address substantial,                        reform of housing and communal

                                                                 
                         procedural and organization issues          services;
                         during the preparation of regulatory               demolition of housing and other
                         documents that are required for             facilities.

                      
                         restructuring.
                                 identify difficulties and       The participating municipalities received
                         constraints which hinder the            technical assistance in the areas specified
                         restructuring process and to            and other identified in the assessment.
                         develop recommendations to deal         The technical assistance was effective in

                      
                         with these issues.                      supporting participating municipalities to
                                identify factors, which may      implement restructuring plans.
                         cause the local restructuring plans
                         to be adjusted and develop

                      
                         recommendations for adjustment.
                                prepare plans for major steps
                         to be taken in local restructuring in

                      
                         the future.
                                ensure compliance with the
                         Environmental Management Plan in
                         the demolition of abandoned and
                         dilapidated housing and other
                         facilities

                      (b)      Training of staff of              (b)    Training in the area of municipal
                      participating municipalities and           management was conducted at the
                      regions in the area of municipal           regional and municipal levels.
                      management.

                      (c)     Implementation of reforms in       (c)    A legal framework was developed
                      housing and utility services               regulating the process of consolidation.
                      management, including demolition of
                      housing and other facilities.              -Systematic monitoring of the
                                                                 implementation of Local Restructuring
                                                                 plans was conducted with the support of
                                                                 consultants.
                                                                 With support of the Project, 12 settlements
                                                                 were closed. A total of 642 buildings
                                                                 (404,689 sq meters) of consolidated
                                                                 housing and social infrastructure,
                                                                 including 60 km of heating networks and
                                                                 29.6 km of water supply networks were
                                                                 decommissioned.

                                               34
          Component         Planned outputs at Appraisal             Actual outputs/outcomes at ICR
                                                               The Project promoted institutional changes

                                                               
                                                               in the housing and utilities sectors:
                                                                         The management system was

                                                               
                                                                   changed.
                                                                         The system of contractual
                                                                   relations and tariff policy was

                                                               
                                                                   improved.
                                                                         Competitive mechanisms were

                                                               
                                                                   introduced.
                                                                         Collection rate for housing and
                                                                   communal services increased.
Component 3 -         (a)      Annual monitoring of            (a)      This work was conducted by local
Monitoring and        economic and fiscal impact of the        authorities with support of consultants by
Evaluation (US$1.20   local restructuring plans in the         reviewing: (i) annual budget execution of
                      municipalities.                          the participating localities, and (ii) next
million)
                                                               year's budgets and enterprises'
                                                               expenditures (actual and projected). In
                                                               addition a qualitative assessment was
                                                               made of economic effects of migration
                                                               that cannot be related to economic
                                                               savings, including examination of the
                                                               reduction of expenditures at the regional
                                                               and federal levels. Regular reports of
                                                               Local Project Implementation Units (Local
                                                               PIUs) and Project Management Reports
                                                               (PMR) reflected this information.

                      (b)      Quarterly monitoring of         (b)     Monitoring of progress was
                      Project implementation                   conducted and included an Electronic
                                                               Database (EDB), which was updated
                                                               regularly by the Central PIU. The EDB
                                                               included, inter alia, detailed information
                                                               about: (i) number of application, (ii)
                                                               number of certificates issued, (iii)
                                                               certificates used, (iv) number of migrants,
                                                               (v) counterpart funds from local
                                                               administrations, (vi) implementation of
                                                               local restructuring plans, (vii) housing
                                                               returned by migrants in the participating
                                                               municipalities. This information was
                                                               generated with the support of consultants
                                                               and Central PIU representatives, who
                                                               visited the localities on a quarterly basis.

                      (c)       Migration process monitoring   (c)     Monitoring of social aspects of out-
                                                               migration was implemented and contained
                                                               in a series of qualitative and quantitative
                                                               sociological assessments aimed at
                                                               reviewing the attitude of residents of pilot
                                                               territories to the Project, identifying
                                                               shortcomings of the assistance program,
                                                               and selection of preferred regions for out-
                                                               migration.


                                               35
          Component            Planned outputs at Appraisal                Actual outputs/outcomes at ICR
                           (d)      Ex post social assessment,       (d)     Different analytical reports and
                           evaluation of the program                 documents were prepared, that included
                           effectiveness, lessons learned and        social assessment, economic evaluation of
                           preparation of guidelines for further     the project effectiveness, lessons learned
                           replication.                              and recommendation for experience

                                                                      Beneficiary survey "Pilot project
                                                                     dissemination:


                                                                      Analytical report "On lessons learned
                                                                         according to the participants";


                                                                      Central PIU's and Consultants'
                                                                         and expansion of the Pilot project";


                                                                      Borrower's report etc.
                                                                         reports;


                           (e)      Dissemination of guidelines;     (e) Informational and analytical materials
                           other information dissemination;          and films were developed and distributed
                           conferences, workshops.                   to different regions and municipalities to
                                                                     share experiences of implementation with
                                                                     the MAP.

Component 4 - Federal      (a)     Provision of advisory services    (a)     Mechanisms of the Federal Law
Policy (US$3.34 million)   in the area of Northern policy revision   125 was tested and improved, certificate
                           and drafting of relevant legislation.     scheme was introduced in federal
                                                                     legislation.
                                                                     -The Project supported preparation of
                                                                     Government Resolutions No. 879 dated
                                                                     December 10, 2002; No. 433 dated July
                                                                     16, 2003; No. 305 dated June 22, 2004;
                                                                     No.153 dated March 21, 2006 and other
                                                                     documents.
                                                                      -analytical framework of Northern policy
                                                                     reform and improvement was developed,

                                                                      analysis of Federal Law No. 4520-1
                                                                     including:


                                                                      assessment of the effectiveness of
                                                                        dated February 19, 1993;


                                                                      recommendations for optimal zoning
                                                                        potential restructuring of the Far North;


                                                                      assessment of the factors contributing
                                                                        of the North;

                                                                        and affecting resettlement from the
                                                                        North etc.

                           (b)    Provision of support for applied   (b) More than 60 analytical notes and
                           research on Northern issues including     reports were prepared for the potential use
                           interaction of Northern labor market      in federal and regional migration
                           with the overall economy.                 programs.

                           (c)   Development of a nation-wide        (c) Two information systems (information
                           information network.                      system on housing market and electronic
                                                                     information system "Migration") were
                                                                     developed under the Project. They
                                                                     included information about the real estate
                                                                     market, regional labor markets, healthcare,

                                                    36
        Component          Planned outputs at Appraisal            Actual outputs/outcomes at ICR
                                                               education and training opportunities,
                                                               climate in recipient regions, etc.

                        (d)   Support for public information   (d)The Project established a
                        and consensus building activities      comprehensive system of information and
                                                               organization support for Northern
                                                               migrants, which helped the migrants to
                                                               implement their right for free choice of the
                                                               recipient region.

Component 5 - Project   (a)    Financing of the project        (a)      The Project supported the
Management Component    management costs at the central and    operating costs of the Central PIU and
(US$7.90 million)       municipal level                        partial costs of the Local PIUs. The Local
                                                               PIUs costs were partially financed by local
                                                               funds.

                                                               -Project management and coordination
                                                               structures established included:

                                                                IMWG;
                                                                Central PIU;
                                                                Coordination / Supervisory Councils in

                                                                Local PIU;
                                                                pilot territories;

                                                                Appeal committees in pilot territories.

                                                               -Effective mechanisms of interaction
                                                               between federal and municipal authorities
                                                               were promoted under the Project.
                                                               Regulatory and legal framework of Project

                                                                 Regulations on out-migration
                                                               management was introduced:


                                                                 Instructions on Financing the
                                                                  assistance;

                                                                  Activities specified in the Regulations

                                                                 Agreement on servicing the Pilot
                                                                  on out-migration assistance;

                                                                  Project between the MOF, MOED and

                                                                 Implementation instructions for Pilot
                                                                  Sberbank;

                                                                  Project territories etc.




                                                37
38
Annex 3:               Economic and Financial Analysis

Benefits:
       Two clusters of benefits17 were quantified for the purpose of the cost-benefit analysis.
The first cluster includes fiscal savings from downsizing of public expenditures triggered by
out-migration. These contain two types of savings: (i) reduction of the consolidated budget
expenditures on social payments and other household related expenditures, and (ii) reduction
of municipal and regional budgets expenditures resulting from the consolidation of
dilapidated housing and social facilities.

       Savings: (i) are calculated based on the difference in average per capita social
payments (benefits, allowances, social compensation) to people living in the participating
municipalities and those who reside in an average recipient region. Following the
methodology used in the analytical report "on lessons learned and expansion of the pilot
project" prepared by the Central PIU, the annual reduction in social payments is estimated at
US$800 per capita. The total effect was calculated by multiplying the average per capita
reduction by the estimated stock of the migrants in the recipient regions. The estimates of the
migrants' stock are made based on the assumption that the annual outflow of migrants is 20%
(both due to return to the North and natural decrease - see Table 1).

            Table 1­ Savings from the reduction of the consolidated budget expenditures on social
                           payments and other household related expenditures18
                           2002     2003     2004      2005     2006       2007      2008      2009    2010    2011    2012
Annual number
of resettled
people                              1380     1523      4415     2546        164           0       0       0       0       0
Cumulative
number of
resettled people                    1380     2903      7318     9864      10028    10028      10028   10028   10028   10028
Estimated stock
of out-migrants
that continue to
reside in the                                          6516
recipient regions                   1380     2627         7     7759      6371       5097     4078    3262    2609    2088
Annual budget
savings, dollars
per migrant                         -          800      800      800        800       800      800     800     800     800
Total annual
savings from
reduced
expenditures on
social payments
US$ million                     0        0      1.1      2.1      5.2       6.2           5     4.1     3.3     2.6     2.1



17
   All calculations are made assuming that the main economic effects of the Project will last during 10 years after the launch of
the Project.

18
     One year lag is used in calculating the benefits to reflect the postponed effects.


                                                                     39
Source: Analytical report "On lessons learned and expansion of the Pilot project" submitted by the Central
PIU, Borrower's Report (Annex 7), and Bank staff estimates.

       Savings: (ii) resulted from the reduction of municipal and regional budget
expenditures on excess dilapidated and unused housing and social and communal facilities.
For the years 2002-2006, the actual data of the report submitted by Central PIU was used.
For the years 2007-2012, the data was extrapolated on an annual average base. The summary
savings from consolidation of housing and social facilities is presented in Table 2.

              Table 2 ­ Savings resulted from to the consolidation of housing and social and
                                       communal facilities

                                200       200    200  200     200      200     200             201
                        2002                                                           2010            2012
                                 3         4      5    6       7        8       9               1
                                                  US$ million
   Annual savings
   from the
                          3.4    1.9      3.3    2.8     3.3    2.9    2.9     2.9     2.9     2.9     2.9
   consolidation of
   housing
   Annual savings
   from the
                          0.4    1.0      0.7    1.0     0.8    0.8    0.8     0.8     0.8     0.8     0.8
   consolidation of
   social facilities
   Annual savings
   from the
                          0.1    0.4      0.2    0.9     0.4    0.4    0.4     0.4     0.4     0.4     0.4
   consolidation of
   communal facilities
   Total annual
   savings from           3.9    3.3      4.2    4.7     4.5    4.1    4.1     4.1     4.1     4.1     4.1
   consolidation
 Source: Analytical report "On lessons   learned and expansion of the Pilot project" submitted by the Central
PIU and Bank staff estimates.

        The second cluster of quantified benefits relates to a change in well-being of out-
migrants after resettlement. For some social groups the reduction in out-migrants' income
after resettlement (due to elimination of Northern-specific benefits) is more than compensated
by the reduced cost of living in the recipient regions. This effect was calculated based on the
methodology presented in the PAD and adjusted for the actual number of resettled migrants.
A summary of the benefits resulting from a change in well-being of out-migrants is presented
in Table 3.

                   Table 3 ­ Benefits due to a change in well-being of out-migrants
                                           200    200  200    200                200     201
                         2002    2003                                   2008                    2011   2012
                                            4      5     6     7                  9       0
                                                  US$ million
   Value of annual
   economic benefits
                                            -                    -
   due to change in        0.0   -0.03          0.36 0.06               0.07    0.07    0.07    0.07    0.07
                                          0.04                 0.01
   well-being of out-
   migrants
 Source: Bank staff estimation made using the PAD methodology.

       Table 4 presents effects deriving from the two benefit clusters. It should be noted that
these groups of benefits do not exhaust all positive consequences of the Project. However,

                                                        40
lack of data and problems with quantifying some of the results do not make it possible to
include all of the benefits in the cost-benefit analysis. The benefits that have been left out
from the cost-benefit analysis are: (i) reduction in the burden of mandatory northern benefits
after elimination of the mandatory nature of such benefits for newcomers (excluded due to
highly volatile number of newcomers and uncertainty about a timetable of phasing out those
benefits); (ii) savings generated by energy and other related costs because of the contraction
in services provided to the North (excluded due to lack of data on tariff and cost structure);
and (iii) positive changes in social and environmental externalities (excluded due to
difficulties with quantification).

        It is clear from these exclusions of un-quantified impacts that, if included, all these
factors would have increased the net present value of the Project.

                                      Table 4 ­ Project economic benefits
                      2002    2003      2004    2005   2006      2007    2008   2009   2010   2011   2012
 Annual savings
 from the
 reduction of
 expenditures on
 social payments       0        0        1.1     2.1    5.2      6.2      5     4.1    3.3    2.6    2.1
 Annual savings
 from the             3.9      3.3       4.2     4.7    4.5      4.1     4.1    4.1    4.1    4.1    4.1
 consolidation
 Benefits from the
 change in well-
                      0.0     -0.03     -0.04   0.36   0.06      -0.01   0.07   0.07   0.07   0.07   0.07
 being of out-
 migrants
 Annual total                                                    10.2
 benefits             3.9     3.27       5.26   7.16   9.76       9      9.17   8.27   7.47   6.77   6.27

Costs:
       Total project costs comprise the following expenditures supporting out-migration: (i)
disbursements under the Loan, and (ii) co-financing. Annual costs of the Project are shown
in Table 5.

                                            Table 5 ­ Project costs
                       2002    2003      2004   2005 2006        2007    2008   2009   2010   2011   2012
                                                  US$ million
 Annual
 disbursement under     1.1     4.4     5.8     12.2    9.1       1.4     0.6    0.1   0.0    0.0    0.0
 the Loan
 Annual co-
                        0.0     4.6     2.3      2.9    3.2       0.1     0.0    0.1   0.0    0.0    0.0
 financing
 Annual total costs     1.1     9.0     8.1     15.1    12.3      1.5     0.6    0.2   0.0    0.0    0.0
Source: Co-financing Reports of Local PIUs, Borrower's Report.




                                                       41
Results of cost-benefit analysis

       The results of the cost-benefit analysis are summarized in Table 6.

                         Table 6 ­ NPV and Pay-back period of the project
                  2002     2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008   2009   2010   2011   2012
Benefits           3.9      3.27    5.26    7.16    9.76   10.29   9.17   8.27   7.47   6.77   6.27
Costs              1.1      9.0     8.1     15.1    12.3    1.5     0.6    0.2    0.0    0.0    0.0
Net value          2.8     -5.73   -2.84   -7.94   -2.54   8.79    8.57   8.07   7.47   6.77   6.27

NPV = US$9.78 mln (Discount rate = 0.1)
IRR = 28%
Approx. payback period ­ 7 years




                                                   42
Annex 4.       Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a)    Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
            Names                            Title                Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Andrei Markov               Senior Human Development Specialist   ECSH3            TTL
Halte Sederdelof            Lead Social Protection Specialist     ECSHD            TTL
Katy Dahlmeier              Operations Analyst                    ECSHD         Operations
Vladimir Drebentsov         Economist                             ECSH3         Economics
Anastassia Alexandrova      Operations Officer                    ECSH3      Social Protection
Stan Peabody                Principal social Scientist                     Social Assessments
Timothy Heleniak            Demographer                                        Demography
Frank Kenefick              Procurement Specialist                             Procurement
Cliff Isaak                 Financial Management Specialist               Financial Management
Maninder Gill               Sociologist                                     Social Assesments
Ashraf Ghani                Principal Anthropologist              EASDV       Anthropology

Supervision/ICR
Anastasya Alexandrova       Social Protection Specialist          ECSH3     Social Protection
Alexander Balakov           Procurement Specialist                ECSC2       Procurement
Vladimir Drebentsov         Senior Economist                      ECSPE        Economics
Maria E. Gracheva           Senior Operations Officer             ECSHD        Operations
Alyona Korneva              Consultant                            ECCU1
Galina S. Kuznetsova        Sr. Financial Management Specialist   ECSC3   Financial Management
Aziz Mamatov                E T Consultant                        ECSPS
Jennifer Manghinang         Temporary                             ECSHD    Program Assistance
Andrei R. Markov            Senior Human Development Specialist   ECSH3           TTL
Norval Stanley Peabody      Consultant                            ECSSD       Social issues
Anahit Poghosyan            Office Manager                        ECSHD
Irina Reshetnikova          Program Assistant                     ECCU1
Ivan Shulga                 Research Analyst                      ECSH3      ICR co-author
Betty Hanan                 Implementation Specialist             ECSHD      ICR co-author
Maria D. Zhorova            E T Temporary                         ECCU1        Consultant




                                              43
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                              106.57
  FY00                                  110                         299.40
  FY01                                   50                         132.89
  FY02                                    8                          17.75
  FY03                                    1                           1.38
                          Total:        169                         557.99
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                   17                          48.45
  FY03                                   47                         189.34
  FY04                                   37                         115.21
  FY05                                   29                         100.46
  FY06                                    8                          25.40
  FY07                                   20                          60.93
  FY08                                   13                          47.03
  FY09                                    8                           0.00
                          Total:        179                         586.82




                                        44
Annex 5.   Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                                        45
Annex 6.   Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                      46
Annex 7.          Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

I.         Background

1.      The Northern Restructuring Pilot Project (hereinafter "the Pilot Project") supported by
the World Bank (hereinafter "the Bank") Loan No. 4611-RU is one of the largest projects
recently implemented in Russia aimed at reforming the national Northern policy.

2.      Project implementation started on August 15, 2002. The Pilot Project involved
development and testing of cost effective arrangements for assisting out-migration from
Northern regions in 3 pilot areas (Vorkuta, Norilsk, and Susuman District of Magadan
Oblast) coupled with local socioeconomic restructuring, and a broader set of innovative areas
of the national Northern policy.

II.        Social Outcomes of the Pilot Project
       ·   Implementation of the Pilot Project resulted in the out-migration of 4,527 households
           (10,028 people), including:
       ·   Vorkuta ­ 2,476 households (5,538 people);
       ·   Susuman district ­ 1,428 households (3,338 people);
       ·   Norilsk ­ 623 households (1,152 people).

III.       Financial and Economic Outcomes of the Pilot Project

3.     Financial and economic benefits of the Pilot Project were to be achieved due to the
following activities and factors:

       · Reduced expenditures on the support of economically inactive citizens due to out-
       migration of excessive population from the regions with severe climate conditions where
       their staying is related to increased subsistence costs, but is not justified by development
       needs;
       · Decommissioning of the released housing/social infrastructure, support of institutional
       reforms in budget management and housing/communal services, implementation of low-
       cost energy efficiency activities;
       · The size of migration assistance allowance (housing subsidy) being half as large as
       under Law 125 (thus allowing the Government to fulfill their social obligations on the
       out-migration of Northern residents at a lower cost).
       · As a result, the following financial and economic benefits were achieved:
       · Total savings for the consolidated budget as a result of out-migration from Northern
       areas made up US$18.17 million (RUR 476 million);
       · Federal budget liabilities on Northern out-migration (as compared to costs under
       Federal Law No. 125 On Housing Subsidies for Citizens Moving from Regions of the Far
       North and Areas of Equal Status) reduced by about US$46.9 million (RUR 1 326
       million).
       · The cumulative economic benefit of the Pilot Project implementation amounted to
       US$32.1 million (RUR 888.8 million);

                                                    47
      · In 2002-2007, about 100 thousand square meters of housing released by Pilot Project
      participants (2.3 thousand apartments) were divested to pilot municipalities, and can be
      used to upgrade the living conditions of citizens living in dilapidated and emergency
      condition buildings and non-viable settlements. Demolition and consolidation of this
      infrastructure allows generation of incremental economic benefits that were not initially
      envisaged under the Pilot Project;
      · The estimated payback period of the Pilot Project equaled about 5.0 years from the
      beginning of investments; i.e., the costs of the Pilot Project have been already recovered.

IV.      Institutional Benefits of the Pilot Project

      · A new mechanism of Northern out-migration has been tested that supplements the
      existing programs while reducing respective expenditures;
      · To maximize the socioeconomic benefits of the Pilot Project, the initial migration
      assistance scheme was revised to change the focus on "narrow" (most vulnerable) groups
      to providing assistance to a broader category (all eligible pensioners);
      · The tested mechanism allows out-migration to areas with more favorable climate
      conditions without long waiting lists with the cost of living in recipient regions being
      considerably lower (based on the minimum subsistence level);
      · A new regulatory and legal framework has been put in place covering the procedures
      for providing housing subsidies, the process of out-migration from Northern areas, and
      implementation of housing certificates;
      · A housing certificate scheme has been introduced, which proved to be viable and
      suitable for further dissemination;
      · Technology of information and PR support at the municipal level has been introduced
      under the Pilot Project, that involved the use of advertising and information materials by
      the Local PIUs, and cooperation with the press and web-based media;
      · An advanced mechanism of monitoring and financial control at all stages of migration
      has been introduced (Electronic Migration Monitoring Database);
      · Fundamental elements of integrated migrant information support have been
      established:
      · Housing market information system;
      · IRS Migration;
      · Arrangements have been put in place to provide organizational and legal assistance to
      the most vulnerable Project participants who are unable to go to recipient regions for
      housing selection and purchase (via the Joint Local PIU Remote Office);
      · Instruments have been developed to generate savings for local budgets due to reduced
      excessive labor and institutional reforms in the following areas:
      · Modernization of HCS management;
      · Reforms in the delivery of public communal services;
      · Attraction of private capital and introduction of competition mechanisms in the HCS;
      · Improvements in contractual relations;
      · Increasing the share of households in HCS cost recovery while ensuring social
      protection of low-income groups and high level of payment collection;
      · Technical assistance has been provided to public authorities in elaborating several key
      Northern policy areas, including the sustainable socioeconomic development of Northern
      regions (arrangements proposed for the implementation of Federal Law 125 involving

                                                  48
   certificate-based migration scheme and targeted support of socially vulnerable
   categories);
   · Lessons learned from the implementation of the Pilot Project have been analyzed for
   potential use in federal and regional migration programs with due regard for specific
   features of Northern territories.

V.    Assessment of the Project's Objectives, Design, Implementation, and Operational
Experience (at Appraisal)

Macroeconomic and Social Context at Project Entry, Rationale for the Project and Bank
Assistance

4.     At the beginning of Pilot Project implementation, the situation in the Far North of
Russia was noted for the following socioeconomic problems:

   · Declined economic activity in most Northern regions,
   · A significant difference in the life standards between economically secure (mainly
   resource extractive) regions, and most Northern areas,
   · Significant numbers of economically inactive and unemployed people concentrated in
   Northern areas, increased social support expenditures, and lack of efficient mechanisms
   of labor rotation responsive to labor market needs.

5.     Increased subsistence expenditures under conditions of severe climate and remote
transportation access, as well as the existence of numerous Northern benefits resulted in the
additional burden on budgets of all levels.

6.     After termination of funding under the Federal Targeted Program Construction within
the Russian Federation of Housing for Citizens Moving from Regions of the Far North and
Areas of Equal Status approved by RF Government Resolution No. 700 dated July 10, 1995,
provision of housing certificates under Federal Law No. 125-FZ On Housing Subsidies for
Citizens Moving from Regions of the Far North and Areas of Equal Status (hereinafter
"Federal Law 125") remained the only way to address the problem at the federal level.

7.     Migration assistance arrangements specified under Federal Law 125 are based on full cost
recovery from the budget, and involve long waiting lists.

8.      The Bank-supported Pilot Project (effective since August 15, 2002) was designed to
address the above problems and elaborate cost effective mechanisms of Northern
restructuring. The amount of the Bank loan according to the Loan Agreement was equal to
US$80 million.

9.      The Pilot Project involved development and testing of cost effective arrangements for
assisting out-migration from Northern regions in 3 pilot areas (Vorkuta, Norilsk, and
Susuman District of Magadan Oblast) coupled with local socioeconomic restructuring, and a
broader set of innovative areas of the national Northern policy.

10.    The Pilot Project activities comply with the goals and objectives of structural reforms
in the Russian economy. Implementation of the Pilot Project has an important social aspect

                                                49
since it includes assistance to broad categories of population moving from regions with
highly uncomfortable climate conditions and limited economic prospects.
11.     The Pilot Project is consistent with basic principles and areas of cooperation with
international financial institutions as approved by the meeting of the RF Government on
October 30, 2003: modernization of the social sector and support of institutional reforms in
public governance.

12.    Pilot Project implementation required lending from the World Bank to allow
addressing of the following objectives:

      · Focus the funds on supporting out-migration and local restructuring in regions that
      have the greatest need for such assistance;
      · Ensure linkage between Northern out-migration and local restructuring;
      · Develop and test an alternative migration assistance mechanism;
      · Reduce the burden on the federal budget.

VI.   Description of Project Objectives, Beneficiaries, Components, Implementation
Arrangements and Management System

13.    The main objective of the Pilot Project was to test cost effective ways of
socioeconomic restructuring in Northern municipalities involving out-migration of socially
vulnerable groups of population; and thereby to facilitate improvement of the national
Northern policy and address related social challenges. The Pilot Project was implemented in 3
Northern municipalities to test dif5ent models of restructuring:

        Vorkuta City (Komi Republic) ­ consolidation of a non-viable settlement, and out-
migration support of individual socially vulnerable categories from a generally viable settlement;

       Susuman district (Magadan Oblast) ­ out-migration support to a broad category of
households with a view to maintain viability of gold mining settlements and reduce local budget
expenditures on financing housing/communal and social infrastructure;

       Norilsk City (Krasnoyarsk Kray) ­ downsizing of the large economically perspective city
through the consolidation of dilapidated housing as a result of migration assistance to socially
vulnerable categories.

14.      The Pilot Project included five components:

     1. Migration Assistance Component. Developing and testing new cost effective
mechanisms of public assistance for outmigration of unemployable population from Northern
territories based on housing certificates.

    2. Local Restructuring Component. Improving the municipal economy and policies
through implementation of structural reforms in municipalities.

    3. Monitoring and Evaluation Component. Monitoring implementation progress of the
Pilot Project, evaluation of its economic and social outcomes.


                                                  50
    4. Federal Component. Assistance in the implementation of the federal Northern policy
(revision of the regulatory and legal framework, testing new approaches to address individual
Northern development issues, creating housing market information infrastructure).

   5. Project Management Component. Institutional and technical support of the Pilot Project
implementation at the federal and local levels.

15.     Activities under the Northern Restructuring Pilot Project, including out-migration
assistance using housing certificates, were implemented in compliance with the following
regulations:

   · Loan Agreement for the Northern Restructuring Pilot Project No. 4611-RU dated July
   11, 2001, between the Russian Federation and International Bank for Reconstruction and
   Development;
   · Regulations on out-migration assistance provided under the Pilot Project approved by
   RF Government Resolution No. 336 dated May 22, 2002;
   · RF Government Resolution No. 306 dated June 22, 2004 On Additional Measures to
   Provide Assistance to Citizens of the Russian Federation under the Northern
   Restructuring Pilot Project;
   · RF Government Resolution No. 772 dated October 22, 2008 On Making Changes to
   Certain RF Government Regulations Pertaining to the Implementation of the Northern
   Restructuring Pilot Project;
   · Instructions on Financing the Activities specified in the Regulations on out-migration
   assistance provided under the Pilot Project approved by MOF/MOED Order No. 76n/224
   dated August 5 2002;
   · Agreement on servicing the Pilot Project between the MOF, MOED and Sberbank of
   Russia No. 01-01-06/26-689 dated August 5, 2002;
   · Implementation instructions for Pilot Project territories approved by regulations
   signed by FER management, administrations of pilot territories, and governments of
   respective regions;
   · Implementation Agreements for the Pilot Project between the MOF, MOED,
   administrations of pilot territories (participating municipalities), governments of
   respective regions, and Non-Commercial Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and
   Financial Institution Development;
   · Agency Agreement for the implementation of the Pilot Project between the MOF,
   MOED and Non-Commercial Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial
   Institution Development No. 01-01-06/26-688 dated August 5, 2002;
   · Operations Manual for the implementation of the Pilot Project adopted by the meeting
   of the Inter-Ministerial Working Group for the Coordination of Preparation and
   Implementation of the Project on April 27, 2001(Protocol No. 19).

VII.   Organizational Structure of Pilot Project Management:
At the federal level:
   · Interagency bodies of Pilot Project management at the federal level (Inter-Ministerial
   Working Group for the Coordination of Preparation and Implementation of the Pilot
   Project, Bidding Committees);


                                               51
      · Government agencies responsible for Pilot Project management at the federal level
      (MOF, MED, MRD);
      · Non-Commercial Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institution
      Development (FER) performing the functions of the Central Project Implementation Unit
      (Central PIU).

At the local and regional level:

      · Interagency bodies of Pilot Project management at the municipal level (Coordination
      Councils/Supervisory Councils);
      · Agencies responsible for Pilot Project management at the municipal level
      (administrations of pilot territories, Local Project Implementation Units);
      · Agencies responsible for Pilot Project management at the regional level
      (administrations of respective RF regions).

Inter-Ministerial Working Group for the Coordination of Preparation and Implementation of
the Pilot Project provided overall management and supervision of Pilot Project implementation at
the federal level.

16.     The MED provided coordination between federal executive authorities, executive
authorities of RF regions and local governments involved in the implementation of the Pilot
Project. In accordance with RF Government Resolution No. 772 dated October 22, 2008 On
Making Changes to Certain RF Government Regulations Pertaining to the Implementation of the
Northern Restructuring Pilot Project, responsibilities for project implementation and coordination
between participating federal executive authorities, executive authorities of RF regions and local
governments were transferred from the MOED and vested on the MRD.

17.     The MOF acted as the chief administrator of the loan funds and counterpart funds under
the Pilot Project.

18.    Sberbank of Russia provided fee-based banking services for the housing certificate
scheme implemented under the Pilot Project.

19.      The FER performed the functions of the Central Project Implementation Unit.

20.     Coordination/Supervisory Councils provided overall management and control over
the Project implementation, coordinated activities of local authorities, Local PIU, agencies and
specialists in the area of Project implementation at the local level, approved the lists of Project
participants and members of their households, and applications to the Central PIU for certificate
forms.

21.     Administrations of pilot territories rendered assistance to the Project implementation in
all areas within their mandates, inter alia, set up Coordination/Supervisory Councils, assisted
Local PIUs in the organization of works, organized the implementation process of local
restructuring plans, ensured execution of local co-financing obligations, organized acceptance of
released housing.



                                                  52
22.     Local Project Implementation Units provided organizational and information support of
the Migration Assistance Component at the local level: accepted applications for Project
participation, calculated the size of housing subsidies, prepared the lists of Project participants for
approval by the Coordination/Supervisory Council, issued housing certificates to Project
participants, maintained the local computerized database on migration monitoring, assisted the
most socially vulnerable categories of Project participants in addressing such issues as housing
selection and purchase, release of housing in the pilot territory, travel and transportation of luggage
to the destination area.

23.     Regional administrations facilitated implementation of the Pilot Project, and assisted
with the implementation of local restructuring plans in respective pilot territories.

24.     The procedure of coordination between the FER, MED (MRD, since September 14, 2009)
and MOF is defined in the Agency Agreement signed between the above Project participants.
According to the Agency Agreement, the MED (MRD, since September 14, 2009) and MOF
acting as a trustee entrust the FER with the target utilization of the Bank Loan proceeds and
implementation of the complex activities under the Pilot Project. The Agency Agreement defines
the status, functions, authority, reporting of the Central PIU related to Project implementation
(including procurement, accounting of loan proceeds, etc.), and is concluded by agreement with
the Bank for the period of Project implementation.

25.     The procedure of coordination between the MOF, MED, FER and pilot territories, mutual
obligations and powers of the parties in respect to Project implementation and use of Bank Loan
proceeds is defined in the Project Implementation Agreement signed between the MOF, MED,
FER, administrations of pilot territories and regional administrations.

26.      The procedure of coordination between the MOF, MED and Sberbank is defined by
Instructions on financing the certificate scheme under the Pilot Project, and Agreement on
servicing the Pilot Project signed between the above Project participants. These documents detail
the functions of the MOF, MOED and Sberbank regarding the document and fund flow under the
certificate scheme of the Pilot Project.

27.     The procedure of coordination between administrations of pilot territories, Local PIUs,
FER and individual Project participants is defined in Instructions to the pilot territories on Project
implementation, which detail arrangements for holding application campaigns, inclusion of
citizens in the lists of Project participants, issuance and processing of housing certificates,
divesture of released housing, and other procedures of Project implementation at the local level.

28.     Interaction between the MED, MOF, FER and other Project participants regarding the
coordination and control over the Project implementation was also performed through the Inter-
Ministerial Working Group for the Coordination of Preparation and Implementation of the Pilot
Project (IMWG). The IMWG provided overall management and supervision of the Pilot Project at
the federal level, and acted as the coordinator of Project implementation.

29.     The Pilot Project was expected to provide the following major benefits for all Project
participants (beneficiaries):




                                                    53
       Federal executive authorities:

       -     Testing a new mechanism of Northern out-migration support to supplement the
             existing programs and assist socially vulnerable categories of population;
       -     Establishing a regulatory and legal framework governing the provision of
             housing subsidies, process of moving from Northern areas and implementation
             of housing certificates;

       Federal budget:

       -     Savings in budget expenditures due to reduced federal budget obligations as
             compared to potential costs under Federal Law 125;

       Regional and municipal administrations (pilot territories):

       -     Savings for local budgets due to reduced expenditures on excessive (released
             and demolished) housing/communal and social infrastructure, and redistribution
             of funds to maintain the existing life support infrastructure;
       -     Additional housing stock becoming available to municipalities for relocation of
             citizens living in dilapidated buildings and non-viable settlements (demolition of
             dilapidated and emergency condition buildings and closing of non-viable
             settlements result in subsequent savings for municipalities).

       Project participants (citizens):

       -     An opportunity to considerably improve natural and climatic conditions of living
             (moving from severe (often extreme) natural conditions to areas with more
             favorable climate);
       -     An opportunity to migrate without long waiting lists;
       -     An opportunity to reduce the cost of living in recipient regions.

VIII. Relevance of Project Objectives, Beneficiaries, Components, Implementation
Arrangements and Management System to Socioeconomic Issues and Priorities of the
National Policy (at Project Completion)

30.     One of the key components of the Pilot Project included reforming of the federal Northern
policy required to streamline budget expenditures at all levels, optimize financial flows, and
overcome negative trends evolving on Northern labor markets and in the sphere of social and
demographic processes.

31.      During Project preparation, a detailed analysis was performed and complete list of
legislative and regulatory documents was compiled pertaining to the Northern policy. The system
of Northern privileges was summarized, and proposals on revising the Northern policy were
prepared that do not require changes to the existing legislation; in addition, recommendations were
made on amendments and additions to the effective legislative and regulatory framework at the
federal level. As a result of these studies, the priorities and areas of improvement of the federal
Northern policy were identified.



                                                  54
32.     The project-developed technology of cost effective voluntary out-migration of excessive
population linked with improvements in the performance of Northern municipalities represents an
important social innovation.

33.     Electronic housing market information systems covering RF regions and residential areas
enable to gradually integrate remote Northern territories in the common information space of the
country. Improved access to information resources on housing markets in RF regions would also
encourage independent out-migration from Northern areas.

34.     In view of the above, the activities implemented under the Pilot Project are consistent with
the objectives and focus of the following federal programs and regulations relevant to the Northern
policy:

·   Federal Targeted Program Housing (2002-2010) approved by RF Government Resolution
    No. 675 dated September 17, 2001:

               ¾       Sub-program on Resettlement of Russian Citizens from Dilapidated and
                       Emergency Condition Housing Stock,

               ¾       Sub-program on Reforming and Modernization of Housing/Communal
                       Services in the Russian Federation,

·   Concept Paper on the Public Support of Northern Socioeconomic Development approved
    by RF Government Resolution No. 198 dated March 7, 2000;
·   Concept Paper on Regulation of Migration Processes in the Russian Federation approved
    by RF Government Directive No. 256-r dated March 1, 2003;
·   Federal Targeted Program e-Russia (2002-2010) approved by RF Government Resolution
    No. 65 dated January 28, 2002);
·   Federal Law No. 125-FZ dated October 25, 2002 On Housing Subsidies for Citizens
    Moving from Regions of the Far North and Areas of Equal Status;
·   Regulations on registration and filing of persons eligible for housing subsidies in
    connection with out-migration from the Far North and areas of equal status approved by
    RF Government Resolution No. 879 dated December 10, 2002 On Approving Regulations
    on Registration and Filing of Persons Eligible for Housing Subsidies in Connection with
    Out-Migration from the Far North and Areas of Equal Status;
·   Action plan on the optimization of population in the Far North and areas of equal status
    through creating conditions for retention of qualified labor and out-migration of
    unemployable persons (2005- 2010) approved by RF Government Resolution No. 44-r
    dated January 20, 2005; and
·   Action plan of socioeconomic development of Northern territories approved by RF
    Government Directive No. 185-r dated February 21, 2005.




                                                  55
IX.  Description of Risks, Problems Occurred during Project Implementation, and
Changes in Project Design Made in Response to these Problems (with Justification)

Major delays at the stage of Project preparation

Loan effectiveness

35.    The Loan Agreement between the Russian Federation and International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development for the implementation of the Pilot Project was signed on
July 11, 2001 Loan 4611-RU). According to the Loan Agreement, Loan effectiveness
conditions were to be met within 90 days, i.e., implementation of the Pilot Project was
expected to begin on October 11, 2001.

36.   In reality the Loan Agreement became effective and, therefore, Project
implementation started with a significant delay ­ only on August 15, 2002.

37.    The delay was caused by a lengthy internal and inter-agency agreement of documents
that were to be adopted as a condition for Loan effectiveness.

Major Delays at the stage of Project Implementation

38.   The original Closing Date of the Pilot Project established in the Loan Agreement was
September 30, 2005. The original Closing Date was repeatedly extended during the
implementation period.

Loan extension till December 31, 2006

39.      The extension was caused by low out-migration rates and slow disbursements during
the first two waves of the certificate scheme under the Pilot Project (2003-2004).

40.     Slow disbursement and low rates of out-migration can be attributed to deficiencies in
the original Project design:

   1. Too "narrow" social categories of Project participants in out-migration waves 1 and 2.
   2. Underestimated ratio between "stay" and "push" factors in Norilsk City in initial
      assessments of the number of Project participants (resulting in considerable
      discrepancies between the projected and actual out-migration in this territory).
   3. Inefficient work of Norilsk Local PIU.
   4. Long period of Project preparation during which the administrations of pilot territories
      resettled part of potential Project participants under existing federal and/or local
      programs.
   5. Overestimated expectations from public migration assistance programs related to the
      wish of potential participants to both move to areas with more favorable climate and
      considerably improve their housing conditions.

41.     Therefore, to increase socioeconomic benefits of the Pilot Project, the category of
eligible participants under the third wave of migration was broadened, which required
extension of the loan.
                                               56
42.      The above deficiencies were addressed in the following way:

      1. Adoption of RF Government Resolution No. 306 dated June 22, 2004 On Additional
      Measures to Provide Assistance to Citizens of the Russian Federation under the Northern
      Restructuring Pilot Project;
      2. Implementation of PR and public awareness campaigns to promote unbiased vision of
      the actual cost of housing in the city and phase-out of local migration programs, and to
      clarify the advantages of the Pilot Project as compared to other migration programs.

Loan extension till September 30, 2009

43.     Despite the progress achieved under the third wave of migration under the Pilot
Project, the pace of out-migration and loan disbursements remained slow, mainly for the
following reasons:

      1. Fixed amounts of funds for migration assistance assigned to each pilot territory under
         the Loan Agreement and in the Federal Law on the Federal Budget of the Russian
         Federation.

      2. Lack of adjustment formula for the size of housing subsidies at the time when the
         third wave of migration was included in the Project, which created certain difficulties
         in the selection of housing and use of housing certificates.

The above deficiencies were addressed in the following way:

      1. Relevant amendments were made to the Loan Agreement and Federal Law on the
         Federal Budget of the Russian Federation to consolidate the funds allocated for
         housing subsidies to all Northern territories participating in the Project.
      2. Draft RF Government Resolution on the extension of the Pilot Project provided for a
         one-time indexation of the housing subsidy.

Loan extension till September 30, 2009

44.      With a view to expand the scope of the Pilot Project to include additional Northern
territories to disburse the remaining IBRD Loan proceeds, the RF Government on October
28, 2008 issued Resolution No. 772 On Making Changes to Certain RF Government
Regulations Pertaining to the Implementation of the Northern Restructuring Pilot Project.

45.     Given the considerable delays in the launch of the expanded Pilot Project, during the
Bank supervision mission (November 21-23, 2008) the MOF, MORD and the Bank made a
joint decision on the potential extension of the Loan Closing Date from September 30, 2009
till March 31, 2011. The Russian side was expected to make the following key steps:

      · Re-establish the IMWG;
      · Sign Supplement No. 4 to the Agency Agreement on Project implementation;
      · Adopt Instructions on financing the certificate scheme and sign Amendment to the
        Agreement with Sberbank;

                                                  57
      · Send an official request to the Bank on the extension of the Loan Closing Date from
        September 30, 2009 till March 31, 2011.

46.       As of September 30, 2009, the following of the above steps were made:

      · The IMWG was set up on March 30, 2009, and held the first meeting on April 28,
        2009;
      · Supplement No. 4 to the Agency Agreement was signed on September 14, 2009.

47.     Given that the lack of approved instructions on financing actually made Project
implementation impossible, the official letter to the Bank requesting Loan extension was not
sent, and the Pilot Project was closed on the scheduled date of September 30, 2009.

48.      It should be noted that processing of Supplement No. 4 to the Agency Agreement was
initially performed without involvement of the MRD. The FER submitted the document for
the MORD agreement only in late February 2009 while simultaneously suspending its work
under the Pilot Project till September 2009.

49.     The generic problem causing implementation delays was related to long internal and
inter-agency agreement of key issues and Project documents, which has led to a 2-year
suspension and finally to the closure of the Pilot Project.

X.        Assessment of the Project Outcome against the Agreed Objectives

Migration Assistance Component:

                       Projected out-migration
                       based on estimates from     Actual out-migration    Realization of projections
  Pilot territories     the Project Appraisal                                         (%)
                          Document (PAD)
                        households     persons     households    persons     households      persons

Susuman district           2114         6002            1428      3338          68%           56%

Norilsk                    4599        15105            623       1152          14%            8%

Vorkuta                    3688         6422            2476      5538          67%           86%

Total                     10401        27529            4527     10028          44%           36%

50.    The reasons for non-fulfillment of migration projections in pilot territories are
addressed above in section Description of Risks, Problems Occurred during Project
Implementation, and Changes in Project Design Made in Response to these Problems.

51.   Migration Assistance Component supported development of the following
mechanisms:

      ·   Innovative migration assistance scheme

                                                   58
   ·   Assistance to Northern residents migrating within Northern areas
   ·   Assistance to socially vulnerable persons migrating from Northern areas to recipient
       regions
   ·   Information support of migration
   ·   PR support of migration

Innovative migration assistance scheme

52.     Public assistance to out-migration from Northern areas is provided under Federal Law
125. The Table below presents comparison between migration assistance schemes under the
Pilot Project and Federal Law 125 based on several key parameters.

            FEDERAL LAW 125                         THE PILOT PROJECT
           OF OCTOBER 25, 2002
Categories eligible for migration assistance (housing subsidy)
Waiting list:                                       Eligible categories without waiting lists (the
· Category 1: residents of shutdown                 third wave of migration under the Pilot
  settlements;                                      Project):
· Category 2: disabled persons;                     · Families with handicapped children;
· Category 3: pensioners;                           · All pensioners (including disabled persons);
· Category 4: unemployed;                           · Residents of specific settlements (proposed
· Category 5 : working persons                          by administrations of pilot territories)

The regional administration cannot start            Migration assistance program provides for
relocation of the next category until out-          simultaneous migration of all categories of
migration of the previous one is completed.         Project participants.
                                                    Migration program under the Pilot Project
                                                    immediately involves Categories 2 and 3
                                                    established in Law 125.

According to Law 125, residents of shutdown      Migration assistance under the Project is being
non-viable settlements are eligible for          provided to persons who were registered in
migration assistance irrespective of the date of Northern territories as of a specific date
their registration in the given settlement.      (effectiveness date of the respective
                                                 Government Resolution). This prevents a
                                                 situation when people register in Northern
                                                 territories with the only aim of becoming
                                                 eligible for assistance under the Pilot Project.
                         Size of migration assistance (housing subsidy)
The size of housing subsidy is calculated based     The fixed size of housing subsidy is calculated
on the average cost of 1 sq. m of housing in        based on the Russia-average price of
the recipient region selected by the migrant as     inexpensive standard housing, irrespective of
a place of permanent residence.                     the selected recipient region.

Such procedure for calculation of the size of       Such procedure for calculation of the size of
housing subsidy results in the following:           housing subsidy results in the following:
· People tend to select the most expensive          · Instead of selecting expensive recipient

                                                   59
    recipient regions, which leads to increased        regions, people are exploring the market of
    burden on the federal budget;                      inexpensive housing in rural areas, regional
·   The load on the housing market in these            centers and towns thus facilitating the
    recipient regions is increasing, which             development of these housing markets;
    entails growth in housing prices;              ·   Co-financing from municipal budgets is
·   Upon receiving the filled housing                  more actively involved;
    certificate (indicating the size of housing    ·   The burden on the federal budget related to
    subsidy), the person can migrate only to           Northern out-migration is considerably
    the originally selected recipient region; a        reduced (in fact, the Government fulfill
    decision to change the recipient region            their obligations with less expenditures)
    requires re-issuance (renewal) of the
    housing certificate.

Allocation of funds between Northern regions
The funds are allocated between Northern           The Pilot Project and the Bank loan enable to
regions in proportion to the number of persons     target the funds to the most problematic
being on the waiting list for out-migration,       territories and settlements thus increasing the
which reduces financial and economic benefits      financial and economic benefits from out-
from out-migration and consolidation of            migration and consolidation of released
released social/communal infrastructure.           social/communal infrastructure.

Information and organizational support of out-migration

Use of modern control and monitoring technologies
The system used under Law 125 involves          The Pilot Project established a comprehensive
registration of persons on the waiting list for system of information and organizational
migration assistance.                           support of Northern migrants, and monitoring
                                                of migration, which helps the migrants to
The functions of public authorities are mainly implement their right for free choice of the
confined to the registration and filing of      recipient region:
persons on the waiting list for migration       · Housing market information system:
assistance, and issuance of housing                 contained data on housing offered for sale
certificates; thereafter migrants realize their     in recipient regions and ensured that the
housing certificates on their own without any       migrants implement their right for free
centralized support.                                choice of the new place of residence;
                                                · IRS Migration: provided the migrants with
                                                    subject-specific data on all regions, cities
                                                    and other resident areas in Russia;
                                                · Computerized migration tracking database:
                                                    migration monitoring system enabling to
                                                    track all stages of the migration process for
                                                    every household;
                                                · Local Project Implementation Units:
                                                    technical units established under
                                                    administrations of pilot territories to
                                                    facilitate the out-migration process in
                                                    Northern areas;
                                                · The system of organizational and legal
                                                  60
                                                        assistance to socially vulnerable persons
                                                        who are unable to go to recipient regions
                                                        for housing selection and purchase.

Law 125 provides for no such unit at the            The Pilot Project supported (during the third
federal level, which increases the costs            wave of migration) a unit providing assistance
incurred by potential migrants on housing           to Project participants in the selection and
selection, and is one of the reasons why part of    procurement of housing without the need for
housing certificates remains unused.                the migrant to visit the proposed recipient
                                                    region (Joint Remote Office of Local PIUs).
                                                    This provides considerable time and money
                                                    savings for the migrants (especially those living
                                                    in remote and hard-to-reach regions) related to
                                                    housing selection.

Linkage between migration assistance and local restructuring (decommissioning of the
released housing/communal and social infrastructure)
Such linkage is not always explicit under Law Due to the inclusion of the Local Restructuring
125.                                          Component, the Pilot Project was able to test
                                              the linkage between cost effective migration
                                              assistance and measures on consolidation of the
                                              released housing stock and social
                                              infrastructure, and support of institutional
                                              reforms in budget and HCS management at the
                                              municipal level.
                                              As a result of out-migration of Project
                                              participants, pilot municipalities receive
                                              considerable housing stock that can be used to
                                              upgrade the living conditions of households
                                              living in dilapidated and emergency condition
                                              buildings and inhabitants of non-viable
                                              settlements. Demolition of the latter generates
                                              additional economic benefits.

53.     Certificate-based migration scheme developed under the Pilot Project ensured that
migrants had a free choice of destination areas, which was confirmed by the analysis of
recipient regions: Project participants migrated to almost all regions of the Russian Federation
(75 regions). The most preferable recipient regions included:

·   Belgorod Oblast;
·   Krasnodar Kray;
·   Kirov Oblast;
·   Rostov Oblast;
·   Tula Oblast;
·   Vladimir Oblast;
·   Nizhny Novgorod Oblast;
·   Voronezh Oblast;
·   Ivanovo Oblast.
                                                   61
Assistance to Northern residents migrating within Northern areas

54.    An institutional structure providing efficient assistance to the process of migration
was established at the regional level in pilot Northern territories.

Assistance to socially vulnerable persons migrating from Northern areas to recipient
regions

55.    The Joint Remote Office tested the mechanism of providing assistance to socially
vulnerable Project participants in housing selection and purchase without the need for the
migrants to visit the proposed recipient regions.

PR support of migration (Information Subcomponent under the Migration Assistance
Component)

56.     The main objectives of the information campaign and PR support under the Pilot
Project were to:

·   Disseminate the fullest possible information on the Project and eligibility criteria for
    participation among the population of pilot territories;
·   Establish and maintain positive attitude to the Project among the potential migrants and
    population of pilot territories;
·   Encourage motivation of potential migrants to participate in the Project.

57.     The work was performed in eight stages. Each stage had specific priorities in respect
to public information, was targeted to specific groups corresponding to categories of potential
Project participants, and used different information technologies.

58.     In general, the information and PR campaign implemented under the Pilot Project
showed that cooperation with potential migration program participants through a wide range
of information channels and agencies responsible for migration assistance is a necessary
condition for the efficiency of migration programs. Such cooperation encourages motivation
to participate in the program, and helps Northern residents go through all organizational
stages related to out-migration to areas with more favorable climate conditions.

Local Restructuring Component:

59.     The need to implement local restructuring under the Pilot Project is caused by the fact that
migration alone fails to generate the largest possible savings, and cannot result in fundamental
recovery of local budgets.

The following local restructuring priorities were identified under the Local Restructuring
Component:
·   Inter-budgetary relations,
·   Reform of housing and communal services,
·   Downsizing of housing/communal and social infrastructure.



                                                  62
60.      Downsizing of housing/communal and social infrastructure involved liquidation
(consolidation) of excessive or released housing/communal, health, education and social facilities.
Consolidated facilities were selected with a view to ensure the highest economic efficiency of the
Project. A separate action plan on infrastructure consolidation was developed for each pilot
territory.

61.  The following factors may be viewed as deficiencies of the Local Restructuring
Component:

·   Insufficient linkage between Migration Assistance Component and Local Restructuring
    Component in the institutional and financing arrangements of the Pilot Project (the lack of
    financial incentives encouraging administrations of pilot territories to implement LRPs
    according to the agreed schedule);

·   Delayed decisions of pilot administrations on the main LRP actions due to the following
    reasons:
    - Insufficient incentives and motivation for expedient introduction of innovative
        economic mechanisms in housing and communal services;
    - Domination of political considerations over the economic feasibility in the decision
        making on the implementation of LRPs.

·   The lack of qualified staff to implement HCS restructuring, management and functioning
    in pilot territories (Vorkuta and Susuman district of Magadan Oblast).

Federal Component (federal policy support):

62.      The objective of the Federal Component was to provide assistance to legislative and
executive authorities in reforming and improving the federal Northern policy. The following
activities were proposed under the Federal Component of the Pilot Project:

      a) Providing advice to the Federal Government, its agencies, regional authorities and
legislative bodies on legal, economic, fiscal and social aspects of the Northern restructuring.
      b) Support of applied research on Northern policy issues including the budget policy in
Northern areas, and interaction of Northern labor market development and Northern in-
migration trends.
      c) Support for dissemination of lessons learned under the Pilot Project, including the
development of information system on housing and other regional data.

63.     The following products were created under the Federal Component that can be used
on the federal scale:

·   Implementation mechanism of Law 125 of October 29, 2002 .          125-    On Housing
    Subsidies for Citizens Moving from Regions of the Far North and Areas of Equal Status
·   Analytical framework of Northern policy reform and improvement
·   System of information support for Northern migrants




                                                  63
Monitoring and Evaluation Component
64.       The following types of monitoring were implemented under the Pilot Project:
      -   Project implementation monitoring;
      -   Social monitoring of migration

65.  The following products were created under the Monitoring and Evaluation
Component that can be used on the federal scale:
      ·   The system of migration program implementation monitoring,
      ·   The system of social monitoring of migration programs.

Monitoring of migration program implementation

66.     Project implementation monitoring was a key instrument of the operational Project
management that ensured timely receipt of comprehensive and regularly updated information
on the migration process at all stages of the migration assistance scheme, as well as data on
housing purchase by migrants in the selected recipient regions. Such information allowed the
Central PIU and Local PIUs to promptly address problems arising both in pilot territories, and
in the process of housing purchase by Project participants.

67.     Current monitoring is a key element of this activity aimed at timely provision of
reliable information to all parties of the Pilot Project. Current monitoring was performed
using the common for the Central PIU and Local PIUs Electronic Database (EDB) based on
the regional principle. EDB was created at the initial stage of the Project and was
continuously updated thereafter. EDB included major information on participating
households, and all stages of the "migration scheme" undergone by these households.

68.    Project implementation monitoring included visits to pilot territories performed both
under Bank missions and as individual trips by Central PIU staff and Project consultants.

Social monitoring of migration programs

69.       It consisted of a series of quantitative and qualitative social assessments.

70.     The first qualitative social assessment was performed in February ­ April 2003. At
the first stage of Project implementation, the attitude of residents of pilot territories to the
Project was generally defined by the following key factors:

·     According to respondents, the size of housing subsidy is insufficient to purchase housing
      outside the Northern region;
·     Elderly respondents considered the certificate-based scheme of housing purchase as a
      cumbersome and technically complicated procedure;
·     The existence of other, more attractive in terms of the size of assistance, migration
      programs discourage some respondents (in Vorkuta and Norilsk) from participation in the
      Pilot Project.

71.    Young and middle-aged potential Project participants demonstrated the most
favorable attitude to the Pilot Project, and comparative willingness to use the opportunities

                                                    64
offered by the Project to out-migrate from the North. The most positive attitude to the Pilot
Project was noted among the respondents of this age group living in Susuman district.

72.      The second stage of social monitoring of migration took place from September 10
through October 27, 2003. Data from the second stage of social monitoring generally
facilitated the adoption of a new approach involving unification and broadening of categories
eligible for participation in the Project. The approach was reflected in RF Government
Resolution No. 306 dated June 22, 2004 On Additional Measures to Provide Assistance to
Citizens of the Russian Federation under the Northern Restructuring Pilot Project.

73.     The third stage of monitoring of migration was performed from September 9 through
December 8, 2004. Qualitative sociological studies can be generally viewed as an important
tool to monitor social situation in pilot territories. This instrument enabled to timely respond
to shortcomings in information campaigns and performance of Local PIUs, and design new
approaches to defining eligible categories for the third wave of migration assistance under the
Pilot Project.

74.     The first quantitative sociological assessment was performed in November 2003, the
second one ­ in September 2004, and the third one was based on the set of questionnaires
collected by late 2005.

75.     The assessment showed that the majority of respondents were positive about the
Project; about three fourths of them were satisfied with their participation in the Project.
Local PIUs were the main source of information on the Project and participation
arrangements at all implementation stages. Housing information database, first of all, helps to
get a vision of the housing market in general while only part of participants tend to use it for
selection of a specific option.

76.     Respondents were mainly displeased with downgrading of living conditions as a result
of moving to less comfortable apartments. Pensioners were among those who took the
situation most heavily, as they perceived migration not only as deterioration of living
conditions but as a dramatic reduction or complete loss of customary social protection. Many
of the indicated problems were directly related to the migration process (processing of
documents, delayed shipment of containers, etc.).

77.    In September-October 2004, a special assessment of refusals to participate in the
Pilot Project was performed. Data on dropout of Project participants were also analyzed
during the study in 2006. The total share of refusals throughout the Project implementation
period made up:
·   Vorkuta ­ about 50%,
·   Norilsk ­ over 50%,
·   Susuman district and the total number of participants ­ about 46%.

78.    The study identified several reasons for increased (as compared to projections)
number of refusals to participate in the Project during the first and second waves of
migration. The most common factors included the following:



                                                65
·     Demographic composition of Project categories during the first and second waves of
      migration;
·     Level of financial migration assistance offered under the Pilot Project, and novelty of
      certification scheme arrangements;
·     Peculiar features of pilot territories selected for participation in the Project;
·     Fear of migration to a new place of residence.

79.    The above factors were in part eliminated with the inclusion of new categories in the
third wave of migration under the Pilot Project.

Major advantages of the Pilot Project indicated by the respondents included the following:

·     The Pilot Project is a real alternative to other migration programs, above all, in terms of
      the timing of migration (no need to be on waiting list for decades);
·     Opportunity to participate in the Project for categories that are not eligible for other
      migration programs;
·     The Pilot Project provides a free choice of the recipient region;
·     Flexibility of the Pilot Project allows the participants not to surrender Northern housing
      for a long period, and refuse to migrate at the very last moment.

Major deficiencies of the Pilot Project indicated by actual and potential participants
included the following:

·     Small amount of payments under the housing certificate, lack of indexation of the housing
      subsidy;
·     Exclusion from the calculation of the housing subsidy of such important (in respondents'
      view) parameters as the length of service in the North and quality of the surrendered
      housing;
·     Lack of co-financing of housing subsidies from the local budget in Vorkuta;
·     Difficulties in the selection of new housing caused by the need to comply with social
      norms of living space in recipient regions;
·     Lack of confidence in housing certificates on the part of real estate agents;
·     Delayed payment of container transportation;
·     Lack of possibility to use housing certificate as an initial installment under mortgage
      loans for housing construction;
·     Dollar-denominated value of housing subsidy (changes in the exchange rate during the
      Project period has led to devaluation of the subsidy value in rubles, while actual purchase
      of housing was performed in rubles).

80.      The studies identified the causes of return migration to Northern regions:
·     The wish to work for another several years to be better off on the "mainland";
·     The wish to help children and grandchildren that had stayed in the North;
·     Adaptation difficulties at the "mainland";
·     The original intention to purchase housing on the "mainland" and travel outside the North
      during summer; and
·     The wish to earn a "Northern bonus" to the pension benefit.


                                                  66
Migration process and adaptation in the new place of residence

81.    The interaction of migrants with the authorities in recipient regions generally went on
smoothly. The majority of respondents indicated no significant problems with local or
regional authorities.

Project Management Component

82.       Project Management Component supported the establishment of:

·     Structure of migration program management;

·     Regulatory and legal framework of migration program, management.

Project management structure:

      -   Inter-Ministerial Working Group for the Coordination of Preparation and
          Implementation of the Project (IMWG);
      -   Central Project Implementation Unit (Central PIU);
      -   Coordination / Supervisory Councils in pilot territories;
      -   Local Project Implementation Units (Local PIU);
      -   Joint Local PIU Remote Office;
      -   Appeal committees in pilot territories.

Regulatory and legal framework of Project management:

      -   Regulations on out-migration assistance provided under the Pilot Project approved by
          RF Government Resolution No. 336 dated May 22, 2002;
      -   RF Government Resolution No. 306 dated June 22, 2004 On Additional Measures to
          Provide Assistance to Citizens of the Russian Federation under the Northern
          Restructuring Pilot Project;
      -   Instructions on Financing the Activities specified in the Regulations on out-migration
          assistance provided under the Pilot Project approved by MOF/MOED Order No.
          76n/224 dated August 5 2002;
      -   Agreement on servicing the Pilot Project between the MOF, MOED and Sberbank of
          Russia No. 01-01-06/26-689 dated August 5, 2002;
      -   Agency Agreement for the implementation of the Pilot Project between the MOF,
          MOED and FER No. 01-01-06/26-688 dated August 5, 2002;
      -   Implementation Agreements for the Pilot Project between the MOF, MOED, FER,
          administrations of pilot territories, and governments of respective RF regions;
      -   Implementation instructions for Pilot Project territories approved by regulations
          signed by FER management, administrations of pilot territories, and governments of
          respective regions.

83.      With a view to expand the scope of the Pilot Project to include additional Northern
territories to disburse the remaining IBRD Loan proceeds, the RF Government on October
22, 2008 issued Resolution No. 772 On Making Changes to Certain RF Government
Regulations Pertaining to the Implementation of the Northern Restructuring Pilot Project.

                                                  67
XI.       Social Assessment (Satisfaction of Beneficiaries)

84.      Social results of the Pilot Project are achieved through the following activities and
factors:

1.        Identification of social categories of Project participants

85.     The original Project design provided for assistance to the most socially vulnerable
categories as proposed by the administrations of pilot territories (World War II veterans, old-
age pensioners category 1 and 2 invalids, etc.) proceeding from the wish to render assistance
to these persons on a priority basis.

86.     The above categories turned out to be "narrow" and the least mobile to participate in
the Project due to the following reasons:

      ·   Lack of personal savings to co-finance the purchased housing;
      ·   Inability (or extremely limited ability) to migrate for health reasons;
      ·   Low interest in Project participation because of the prospects of getting assistance in
          the near future (and in the larger amount) under Government migration programs.

87.    In view of the above, RF Government Resolution No. 306 On Additional Measures to
Provide Assistance to Citizens of the Russian Federation under the Northern Restructuring
Pilot Project was issued on June 22, 2004 to change the focus of migration assistance towards
broader and more mobile categories (all pensioners, families having handicapped children).

88.      As a result, it is these categories of the third wave of the certificate scheme that gained
the greatest advantage from the Project. At the same time, socially vulnerable categories also
benefited as a result of Project implementation: they moved into released housing in pilot
territories, and many of them upgraded their living conditions before out-migrating from the
North under other Government and regional programs. Such changes were not envisaged in
the original Project design but they fully paid off.

2.        Prevention of "resource leakage"

89.     There were cases under the Pilot Project when migration assistance was provided to
ineligible persons due to violation of a condition for Project participation ­ absence of other
housing in other RF regions. This occurred due to the imperfection of the Russian legislation
and lack of a reliable instrument for relevant checks ­ a unified register of real-estate
property. These facts were taken into account in the RF Government Resolution providing for
Project extension to additional Northern regions, and the certificate scheme was adjusted to
prevent such cases in the future.

3.        Poverty impact

90.    The Pilot Project was designed to provide assistance to the most socially vulnerable
categories. Given that pensioners appeared to be the most disadvantaged group in terms of
access to public migration programs, the third wave of the Project was focused on this
category of migrants. This yielded the greatest socioeconomic benefits, inter alia, regarding

                                                  68
the improved financial status of Project participants. Out-migration from Northern areas
(noted for the high cost of living) to other RF regions enabled people to reduce their living
expenses in recipient regions due to the lower cost of HCS, healthcare, transport, food, etc.

XII.     Economic Evaluation

Project financing arrangements:

91.    In accordance with Loan Agreement No. 4411-RU dated July 11, 2001, the Pilot
Project was implemented using the Bank loan equal to $80 million. Project financing
arrangements are presented in the Table below.

                                                     US$ million
                                                               Breakdown by years
               Item                    2002   2003     2004   2005 2006 2007      2008     2009   Total:


Housing subsidies paid from the
Bank loan                               -     2.68     3.58   10.33   7.87   0.58    0      0     25.04
Other costs paid from the Bank
loan                                   1.05   1.74     2.28   1.81    1.22   0.89   0.52   0.13   9.64
Total disbursements under the
Bank loan                              1.05   4.42     5.86   12.14   9.09   1.47   0.52   0.13   34.68
Total financing of the Pilot Project   0.03   4.59     2.28   2.85    3.2    0.14   0.04   0.06   13.18
Total costs under the Pilot
Project                                1.08   9.01     8.14   14.99 12.29    1.61   0.56   0.19   47.86
Financing arrangements:
Loan funds                             97%    49%      72%    81%     74%    91%    93%    68%    72%


Co-financing from the consolidated
RF budget                              3%     51%      28%    19%     26%    9%     7%     32%    28%

92.      Starting from the second half-year period of 2007, implementation of the certificate
scheme under the Pilot Project has been terminated. As of September 30, 2009 (Loan Closing
Date) the undisbursed balance of the Bank loan proceeds allocated for the implementation of the
certificate scheme made up $39.9 million (49.9 % of the Loan amount). Total disbursements of
the Bank loan for Project implementation in 2002-2009 made up $34.7 million (43.4 % of the
Loan amount). Undisbursed balance of the Bank Loan equaled $45.3 million (56.6 % of the Loan
amount).

Economic efficiency of the Pilot Project:

93.     Economic efficiency of the Pilot Project was achieved due to reduced expenditures of the
federal budget, consolidated budget of the Russian Federation (budgets of all levels) and extra-
budgetary funds as a result of the following factors:

1. Lower (as compared to Law 125) size of the housing subsidy (social allowance for
   housing purchase) allows the federal Government to fulfill social liabilities related to out-
   migration from Northern regions at a lower cost;


                                                         69
2. Reduced expenditures on the payment of allowances, bonuses and social compensations
   as a result of out-migration from the North;
3. Reduced budgets expenditures of Northern municipalities and regions on the maintenance
   of excessive housing/communal and social infrastructure due to out-migration of
   unemployable population and decommissioning of the released infrastructure.

Project performance indicators for the Russian Federation:

94.      Peculiar features of Project benefits:

·     Stepwise pattern of budget savings from the consolidation of housing and social
      infrastructure; Time instability of achieved economic benefits related to changes in
      budget and tariff policies, impact of inflation and climate; Retarded manifestation of
      benefits; Drawbacks in the existing system of budgeting and document turnover
      hampering transformation of potential

XII. Evaluation of the Borrower's Own Performance during Project Preparation and
Implementation

Performance of Government Agencies (MOF, MED, MRD, IMWG)

95.    Performance of the Russian Federation during Project preparation and implementation
can be evaluated as generally satisfactory.

96.   Inter-Ministerial Working Group for the Coordination of Preparation and
Implementation of the Project (IMWG) provided efficient management of Project
implementation; no performance shortcomings were noted.

97.     MED (the Client) provided coordination between agencies involved in Project
implementation. However, the frequent change of officials responsible for Project
implementation sometimes caused delays in addressing implementation issues and agreement
of the required documents. It has become especially apparent at the final stage of the Project
when the decision was made to extend the loan, Government Resolution On Making Changes
to Certain RF Government Regulations Pertaining to the Implementation of the Northern
Restructuring Pilot Project was adopted, and the functions of the chief implementation
agency were transferred to the MRD.

98.     MOF acted as the chief administrator of the Project funds and supervised the targeted
use of the Bank loan. Performance inefficiencies include excessively long internal agreement
of the required regulations and instructions, which resulted in delayed issuance of housing
certificates (especially in early 2003), and a 3-month suspension of housing certificate
payments in 2005.

99.    MRD ­ according to RF Government Resolution No. 772 dated October 22, 2008 On
Making Changes to Certain RF Government Regulations Pertaining to the Implementation of
the Northern Restructuring Pilot Project, the functions of the chief implementation agency
was transferred from the MOED to the MORD. In order to launch the fourth phase of the
Pilot Project, the MORD repeatedly tried to accelerate the adoption of the required
documents; however, inconsistent position of the MOED, as well as the lack of Instructions
                                                  70
on Financing approved by the MOED and MOF have played a crucial role in the decision to
close the Project.

100. Sberbank was rather efficient in servicing of the certificate scheme under the Pilot
Project. Shortcomings in the performance of Sverbank include the following:

·   Sberbank offices working with housing certificates under the Pilot Project were (in some
    regions) located at long distances from the areas where housing was purchased by Project
    participants. The issue was addressed by increasing the number of Sberbank offices
    working with housing certificates in the following regions:

    -   Leningrad Oblast;
    -   Novgorod Oblast;
    -   Pskov Oblast;
    -   Sverdlovsk Oblast;
    -   Ulyanovsk Oblast;
    -   Chelyabinsk Oblast.

·   Insufficient knowledge by Sberbank staff of certificate scheme procedures; mistakes
    made by Sberbank offices when filling housing certificate forms and issuing statements
    on the opening of a blocked account by the housing certificate holder (at the initial stage
    of the Project). The drawback was eventually addressed through the coordination between
    the Local PIUs and Sberbank during the Project implementation;
·   The staff of Sberbank offices were (in some cases) insufficiently attentive when checking
    housing purchase agreements (acceptance of purchase agreements where the number of
    registered owners did not comply with the one indicated in the housing certificate). Such
    omissions took place in but a few cases, and are not typical for the performance of
    Sberbank.

101. Agencies of justice for state registration of immovable property rights and
transactions generally demonstrated good performance under the Pilot Project. Major
inefficiencies included the following:

·   Registration of housing purchase agreements non-compliant with the standard total
    (living) space of housing as established by RF executive authorities for registration of
    persons who needed upgrading of living conditions. The Central PIU repeatedly (directly
    and through the MED) made these facts known to the MOJ. According to the MOJ,
    measures were taken to exclude recurrence of such violations in the future;
·   Long period of registration of housing purchase agreements in some regions (as reported
    by Project participants). The Central PIU requested the MOJ to consider registration of
    purchase agreements made under the Project within 5 days from the submission of
    documents or using the accelerated procedure adopted in RF regions without charging
    additional fees for the reduced period of registration. According to the MOJ, procedures
    for registration of housing purchase agreements could be changed only as part of
    amendments to the existing legislation.




                                                71
Performance of the Central PIU

102. Central PIU (Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institution
Development) performed operational management of the Pilot Project.

Performance of Regional and Municipal Administrations

103. Practice has shown that the efficiency of Project implementation in Northern regions
was directly dependent on the following factors:

·   Positive attitude of local administrations to the Pilot Project;
·   Opportunity to use administrative resources;
·   Professional competence of Local PIU staff;
·   Adequate functioning of technical facilities.

Administrations of pilot territories

104. Susuman District. Administration of the Susuman district initially demonstrated the
most positive attitude towards the Project among all pilot territories, which was attributed to
the economic expediency of reducing the population to improve financing of viable assets
and optimize the social structure of population.

105. Administration of the Susuman district rendered every support and assistance to the
Pilot Project at the local level, provided co-financing of housing subsidies from the municipal
budget, actively and consistently implemented local restructuring plans (including
consolidation of released housing/communal and social infrastructure) with a view to
optimize the number of population and HCS in the pilot territory. Performance inefficiencies
(at initial stages of the Project) included:

    · A requirement that Project participants should repair the released housing at their own
      expense. The issue was addressed on a case-by-case basis depending on the condition
      of the released housing;
   · A complicated procedure for the surrender of housing occupied by Project participants
      on a ownership basis (the need for state registration of immovable property
      transactions in Magadan);
   · Problems faced by asset holders at the final surrender of released housing (difficulties
      with the signing of the act of housing acceptance in cases when certificate owners left
      to select/purchase housing and never returned to the pilot territory).
106. The issues were addressed through making adjustments to housing surrender
documents in compliance with the new Housing Code effective since March 1, 2005.

107. Vorkuta. Position of Vorkuta City Administration was usually consistent with the
official view voiced by the Head of City Administration. While recognizing the benefits of
the Pilot Project enabling to reduce the "social burden" on the city, local authorities refrained
from active support of the Project.



                                                  72
108. Vorkuta City Administration provided support and assistance to the Pilot Project at
the local level, actively and consistently implemented local restructuring plans. Performance
inefficiencies (at initial stages of the Project) included:

   ·   Unwillingness of some residents of the closing Promyshleny settlement to move out
       from Vorkuta on conditions offered under the Pilot Project. The issue was addressed
       through relocating these persons to other settlements or Vorkuta and accommodating
       them in housing released by Project participants who migrated using housing
       certificates or under other migration programs;
   ·   A requirement that Project participants should repair the released housing at their own
       expense. The issue was addressed on a case-by-case basis depending on the condition
       of the released housing;
   ·   Lack of co-financing of housing subsidies from the municipal budget. Attempts to
       address this issue failed due to the subsidized nature of the city budget and lack of
       relevant financial support from the Komi Republic;
   ·   Difficulties in establishing the reporting system regarding the co-financing by the
       local administration of consolidation of dilapidated and emergency condition housing.

109. Norilsk. At the initial stage of Project implementation, neither political nor economic
elites in Norilsk were willing to publicly indicate their position towards the Pilot Project.
However, as the Project moved on and demonstrated positive social, financial, economic and
institutional impact, the city administration increasingly showed their support of the Pilot
Project.

110. Norilsk City Administration supported the Pilot Project at the local level, and
provided co-financing of housing subsidies from the municipal budget. However, insufficient
attention was paid to local restructuring plans at the final stages of Project implementation.
Significant inefficiencies included:

       ·   Insufficient (at the first stage of Project implementation) public awareness on the
           downsizing of local migration assistance programs. This did not allow people
           willing to out-migrate from Norilsk to evaluate realistic prospects of migration
           assistance from municipal authorities, and maintained overestimated expectations
           concerning the price of housing in the city. The issue was partially addressed
           through active PR and public information campaigns, relevant clarifications to
           communities, migration assistance provided to Project participants (co-financing
           of housing subsidies from the municipal budget, pension bonuses, etc.), actual
           downsizing of local migration programs, and a decision to limit target groups and
           number of participants under these programs (e.g., providing migration assistance
           only to budget sector workers, etc.);
       ·   Excessively complicated (at the first stage of Project implementation) procedures
           for issuance of documents for out-migration from Norilsk, including agreements
           for container transportation, etc. The above issues were addressed, and procedures
           for document issuance streamlined (a "one window" system was introduced);
       ·   Unwillingness of Norilsk City Administration to the comprehensively study and
           apply the proposals and recommendations of the Project consultant on local
           restructuring plans, which has led to failures in the implementation of some LRP
           activities, as well as deterioration of HCS during the final stage of the Project.

                                               73
111. Having recognized the positive impact of the Pilot Project, Norilsk City
Administration developed and implemented a new municipal migration assistance program
that almost entirely followed the contents and procedures of the certificate scheme offered
under the Project (the only difference was the use of letters of commitment from the city
administration instead of housing certificates).

112. Coordination/ Supervisory Councils in pilot territories provided efficient management
of Project implementation at the local (municipal) level; no performance shortcomings were
noted.

113. Appeals committees in pilot territories considered questions, complaints and claims
related to Project implementation. No performance shortcomings were noted.

Local Project Implementation Units

114. Local PIU in Susuman district and Vorkuta demonstrated high-quality performance
during application campaigns and issuance of housing certificates; actively advertised the
advantages of the Project (inter alia, on a individual basis, through the visits of Local PIU
staff to remote settlements), made wide use of PR and information tools, and worked with
media with the assistance of Central PIU consultants.

115. Norilsk Local PIU failed to develop the appropriate approach to Project
implementation at the initial phases (1 and 2 waves). They were insufficiently active in using
PR and information campaigns, failed to establish good cooperation with media, and made
very little use of individual work with Project participants. When the Local PIU was removed
from the Department for Migration Assistance under the Norilsk City Administration and re-
established as an autonomous entity, and the Local PIU management was replaced (July
2004), the work was intensified resulting in some positive changes in Project implementation
in this pilot territory.

116. Generic inefficiencies in Local PIU performance (at initial stages of Project
implementation):

   ·   Lack of mechanisms enabling to provide additional assistance in housing purchasing
       to persons eligible for such assistance under RF Government Resolution No. 336 of
       May 22, 2002. The issue was addressed after the Joint Remote Local PIU Office was
       established in Moscow.
   ·   Non-compliance (in some cases) with Project procedures when managing transactions
       for Project participants, preparing the required documents (Minutes of meetings of
       Coordination / Supervisory Councils and attached lists, forms of housing certificates),
       and entering information in the Electronic Migration Monitoring Database. The issue
       was addressed after several visits of Central PIU consultants to pilot territories.

117. Joint Remote Office of Local PIU provided timely essential assistance to socially
vulnerable categories of Project participants in selecting the housing and processing purchase
transactions in recipient regions. The Office performed the following important functions:




                                               74
    ·   Information/advice: search and selection of housing for socially vulnerable Project
        participants, compiling a database on inexpensive housing market, providing advice
        on housing prices in potential new residence areas;
    ·   Legal support: processing housing purchase transactions for socially vulnerable
        participants in recipient regions;
    ·   Social support: addressing social challenges occurring due to the specifics of the given
        category (pensioners, disabled persons);
    ·   Analytical support: analysis of the work with socially vulnerable Project participants,
        and development of recommendations for Local PIUs.

118. Consultants from the Remote Office elaborated arrangements for engaging real estate
agents in recipient regions to perform technical procedures for transactions on housing
purchase by Project participants, including inspection of housing, due diligence, opening of
blocked special accounts at relevant Sberbank offices, submission of housing purchase
agreements to agencies of justice for registration, etc. This enabled to save money (travel
expenses) and time to provide assistance in housing selection to all Project participants
applying to the Joint Remote Office. For remote Northern areas having only air transport
connection with recipient regions (Susuman district and Norilsk), Remote Office provided a
realistic, and often the one and only opportunity to help Project participants to select and
purchase housing.

Regional administrations

119. Magadan Oblast Administration supported Project implementation, participated in co-
financing of transportation subsidies for Project participants.

120. Komi Republic Administration supported Project implementation; however, the
Administration failed to provide financial support to Vorkuta City for co-financing of housing
subsidies.

121. Krasnoyarsk Kray Administration did not play any active role in the implementation
of the Pilot Project.

Lessons Learned and Recommendations for the Future

122.    Implementation of the Pilot Project demonstrated the following:

·   The efficiency and effectiveness of public migration assistance programs depend on the
    sound combination of a specific migration program, and a set of institutional and
    economic measures at the local level. An important aspect is the intensity of "push" and
    "attraction" factors in a given Northern area as compared to the attractiveness of a
    specific recipient region. Innovative federal Northern policy is essential to establish the
    framework for the natural process of labor migration and ensure efficiency of migration
    programs.

·   The efficiency of a specific cost effective program in a Northern area depends, among
    other things, on the existence of other, more cost intensive programs, and, therefore, on
    the opportunity to make a choice between different programs.

                                                 75
123. Thus, implementation of the Pilot Project in pilot territories was, to a different extent,
complicated by the "competition" with other migration programs simultaneously
implemented in these areas:

·   In Susuman district of Magadan Oblast ­ to a small extent, due to implementation of the
    following programs:

        ·   Mining Sector Restructuring Program;
        ·   Oblast Targeted Program of Migration Assistance to Citizens Living in Non-
            Viable Settlements in Magadan Oblast;

·       In Vorkuta ­ to a small extent, due to implementation of the Local Development
        Program approved by MOE Order No. 185 dated June 19, 2002 On Approving
        Regulations on the Development and Implementation of Local Development
        Programs and Ensuring Employment in Miner Cities and Settlements Financed from
        the State Support of the Mining Industry, and RF Government Resolution No. 840
        dated December 24, 2004 On the List of Activities on Mining Industry Restructuring
        and Procedures for their Financing;

·   In Norilsk ­ to a considerable extent, due to the implementation of quite a few programs:

    -   Provision of housing in other RF regions;
    -   Provision of monetary compensations for released housing;
    -   Provision of readily available housing in the southern part of Krasnoyarsk Kray.

    1. Improved efficiency of Northern out-migration assistance is linked with the
       implementation of interrelated activities that must be comprehensive and combine
       migration with both socioeconomic restructuring at the local (municipal) level, and
       elaboration of innovative areas of the overall national Northern policy.

    2. Concentration of funds to provide migration assistance to residents of specific
       municipalities and settlements leads to a synergy effect, and more specifically:

    ·   Actual savings for municipalities due to reduced expenditures on excessive (released and
        demolished) housing/communal and social infrastructure, and redistribution of funds to
        maintain the existing life support infrastructure;
    ·   Additional housing stock becoming available to municipalities for relocation of citizens
        living in dilapidated buildings and non-viable settlements (demolition of dilapidated and
        emergency condition buildings and closing of non-viable settlements result in subsequent
        savings for municipalities).

    1. The greatest financial, economic and social impact of out-migration and associated local
       restructuring is achieved through a complete shutdown of non-viable settlements, since
       this allows a full liquidation of excessive housing/communal and social infrastructure,
       and maximum reduction of relevant expenditures (e.g., Promyshlenny settlement in
       Vorkuta). In case of complete shutdown of non-viable settlements, general restrictions
       regarding the date of arrival to the North and length of tenure in the North create certain
       eligibility difficulties for the residents of such settlements. However, these difficulties can

                                                  76
   be efficiently eliminated by local governments and regional executive authorities under
   local and regional migration programs.
2. Northern out-migration assistance using housing certificates provides a modern, socially
   focused instrument enabling to:

   ·   Introduce a new mechanism of Northern migration assistance that is more efficient
       and cost effective as compared to the previous practice of housing construction for
       Northern migrants;
   ·   Ensure focused migration assistance targeted to appropriate Northern territories and
       residence areas, and relevant social groups;
   ·   Provide funds for migration assistance directly to the migrants;
   ·   Ensure free choice of the recipient region and housing for housing certificate holders;
   ·   Protect housing subsidies from fraud on the real estate market;
   ·   Select housing within a sufficiently long time period;
   ·   Ensure targeted use of migration assistance funds;
   ·   Provide efficient control over the flow of documents and funds.
3. Migrant categories should be established based on the need to ensure a wide coverage of
   socially vulnerable groups with due regard for the specifics of respective Northern
   territories.
4. The size of the housing subsidy should be calculated with due regard for the following
   factors:
   · Scarcity of funds allocated for out-migration purposes from the federal budget;
   · The need to guide the migrants towards the market of inexpensive housing in regional
       and district centers, and rural areas;
   · The need to attract co-financing from migrants, municipal administrations, RF regions
       and large employers.
5. Migration programs should also provide for indexation of housing subsidies to adjust for
   the rising prices of immovable property.
6. Expenditures on the payment of housing subsidies under the Pilot Project are half as large
   as under Law 125, which allows the Government to fulfill their social obligations at a
   lower cost.

7. A good many Northern residents who are eligible for migration assistance but have no
   realistic prospects for receiving it in the near future are willing to participate in migration
   programs offering a much smaller subsidy without any waiting lists, and to spend their
   own funds to co-finance the housing subsidy.

8. When getting government assistance of smaller size, the migrants actually implement
   market-oriented strategies of housing purchase: turn to inexpensive segments of the
   housing market in district centers and satellite towns around regional centers, which
   facilitates a more uniform distribution of the load on housing markets in recipient regions
   and encourages simultaneous out-migration of large groups of Northern residents.




                                              77
       9. This out-migration mechanism enables to efficiently attract the funds of regional and
          municipal budgets, as well as the people's own earnings; as a result, the burden on the
          federal budget per one migrant can be reduced two-fold.

       10. Efficient functioning of the certificate scheme can be achieved if the following conditions
           are met:
           · Existence of the regulatory and legal framework for out-migration;
           · Smooth coordination between all agencies involved in migration program
               implementation at the local and federal levels;
           · Availability in Northern territories and at the federal level of modern technical
               facilities to monitor all stages of out-migration and provide control over the flow of
               documents and funds;
           · Sufficiently developed institutional structure of the housing market in potential
               recipient regions;
           · Availability of an extensive Electronic Information System on the housing market in
               the Russian Federation enabling to provide the migrants with practical information
               assistance in housing selection;
           · Availability of an Electronic Information System on RF regions and residence areas;
           · Active information and PR support of migration including relevant preparatory
               activities;
           · Individual work with migrants in Northern territories (including the receiving of
               applications and applicants on the ground in remote settlements);
           · De-bureaucratization of out-migration and in-migration procedures.
(iv)       Evaluation of the Bank's Performance

124. The Bank was actively involved in the implementation of the Pilot Project, and
contributed to its success. The major performance drawbacks include the following:

       ·   Complicated Bank's procurement procedures (lengthy agreement of Terms of Reference,
           long bidding process);
       ·   Long process of Loan extension. Even with the obvious need for such extension due to
           the requirements of the RF legislation (based on the timing of the certificate scheme
           established in RF Government Resolution agreed with the Bank), it took quite a lot of
           time to make a decision on Project extension and its documentation during the inclusion
           of the third wave of migrant categories in the Pilot Project; and
       ·   The use of a somewhat formal criterion ­ disbursement of Loan proceeds ­ in reviewing
           the Project implementation progress. In the future it seems appropriate to increase the
           weight of substantive factors and indicators in the assessment of project implementation.

XIII. Description of Arrangements (Schemes, Principles, etc.) Proposed under the Pilot
Project that can be used in the Future

125. Despite some problems with the implementation of the Pilot Project, the experience
gained under the Project needs further dissemination in view of the following factors:

1. The Project facilitated creation of a new capacity (experience) for the management of similar
projects and programs, first of all, in the following areas:

                                                   78
   ·   Providing focused assistance to target social groups and territories having the greatest
       need for such assistance;
   ·   A comprehensive system of information support of out-migration (Housing market
       information system, IRS Migration);
   ·   Combination of migration assistance and local restructuring as interrelated elements of
       sustainable development in Northern territories;
   ·   System of project management at the federal, regional and local levels;
   ·   System of consulting, organizational and information services aimed at assisting the
       migrants with the selection of the recipient region and transportation to the new place of
       residence.

126. The use of the capacity and experience generated under the Pilot Project seems especially
expedient during the economic crisis having the most significant implications for the Northern
territories. Municipal governments were facing scarcity of resources due to the restructuring of
industrial enterprises and limited budget subsidies. The majority of Northern industries were
undergoing major downsizing, and are taking steps towards restructuring or will be doing so to
recover economic sustainability. These measures resulted in the release of labor and growth of
unemployment in territories where new employment opportunities in the near term are expected
to be limited. Northern restructuring required a reduction in the population and optimization of
budget resources. Therefore, dissemination of experience gained under the Project will have
positive financial, economic and social impact.

Need to make amendments to Federal Law No. 125 On Housing Subsidies for Citizens
Moving from Regions of the Far North and Areas of Equal Status

127. The Pilot Project demonstrated that the proposed and tested mechanisms are quite viable
and efficient, offer a more flexible alternative out-migration option supplementing the existing
programs, and provide the government with a less cost intensive instrument of Northern social
and economic restructuring, and transition to sustainable development of the region.

128. Positive results of the Pilot Project confirm the possibility to disseminate the gained
experience in a larger number of Northern territories, and continue reforming of the federal
Northern policy.

129. Therefore, one of the essential arguments in favor of replicating the lessons learned under
the Project is the need and feasibility of implementing the tested system elements (institutional
and financial arrangements) in the federal regulatory and legal framework and Northern
migration assistance instruments as a standard model applied at the federal level.




                                               79
Annex 8.   Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                       80
Annex 9.     List of Supporting Documents


1.    World Bank, 2001, NRP Minutes of Negotiations

2.    World Bank, 2001, NRP Project Appraisal Document

3.    World Bank, 2001, NRP Loan Agreement

4.    World Bank, 2001-1007 ­ Amendments to Loan Agreement

5.    World Bank, 1999 ­ 2009 Aide Memoires and Back-to-Office Reports

6.    World Bank, 1999 ­ 2010 Management and other important letters and memoranda

7.    World Bank, 1999-2009 Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs)

8.    World Bank, 2001, Country Assistance Strategy ­ Document No. R2001-0007

9.    Ministry of Regional Development, 2010 ­ Borrowers Contribution to ICR

10.   Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institutions Development, 1999 ­
      2009 ­ Progress Management Reports




                                             81
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 30825

                                                                    RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                                                              Chukchi
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bering
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Strait                                SUSUMAN/MAGADAN                                                   Ust'-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Nera                 Ne
                     NORTHERN RESTRUCTURING PROJECT                                                                                                                                  Sea                                                                     PROJECT SETTLEMENTS                                                 ra                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Bering                                       MAIN ROADS                                                                 Artyk                                                                       lym
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ko
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SECONDARY ROADS
                                                                                                                  OBLASTS IN PROJECT                                                                                 Sea                                     SUSUMAN DISTRICT (approximate)
                                                                                                                  OBLAST, KRAI, OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES                                                                                                       AUTONOMOUS OBLAST OR
                                                                                                                  AUTONOMOUS OBLAST, KRAI, OR                                                                                                                  REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES                                                               S U S U M A N
                                                                                                                   REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                            Kyubyume        Ind
      Norwegian                            Sea                                                                                                                      East Siberian                                                                                                                        igir
                                                                                                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                               Sea                                                                                                                                    ka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ust-Khakchan          Udarnik
     NORWAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S A K H A                                                                                    Shiroky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Seymchan
                                                                        B a r e n t s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kadykchan                  Maldyak




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To Yakutsk
                                                                                                                                                 L a p t e v
                      SWEDEN                                                   S e a
                                                                                                                                                   S e a                               MAGADAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Omsukchan
                                  of Both n i a
                            ulf                                                                                                                                                          Susuman                                                                Tyry                                                                            Bolshevik
                        G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Susuman D             Yagodnoye
                                  FINLAND                                                         Kara Sea                                                                                                   Petropavlovsk-                                                                                                                                                  ed
                                                                                                                                                                                          Magadan             Kamchatskii                                                                                                                                                      in
Baltic Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Kupka
RUSSIAN              ESTONIA
                                                                                                                    TAYMYR A.O.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  a
  FED.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               lym
            LATVIA
   LITHUANIA
                        St. Petersburg                Arkhangelsk                                                      Norilsk                                                                             Sea of




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ko
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kulu
                                                                                             Vorkuta                                                                                                   Okhotsk
 BELARUS                                                             KOMI
                                                                                                                                     Circ
                                                                                                                                            le                       Yakutsk                                                                                                                                                                                                            M A G A D A N
                                                                    REPUBLIC                                                Arctic
                Moscow
   IN E




                                                  Niznhiy
                                                  Novgorod                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ust'-Omchug                               Talaya
 UKRA




                                                                         Yekaterinburg                                                                                                           Khabarovsk               JAPAN
                                                     Samara                                                                                                                                                              Sea
               Rostov Volgograd                                          Chelyabinsk                                                                                                                                      of                                         KHABAROVSK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ul'be
                                                                                                                                 Krasnoyarsk             Lake                                                           Japan
      Krasnodar                                                                               Omsk
                                                                                                                                                        Baikal




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ya
                                                                                                              Novosibirsk
   GEORGIA                                                                                                                                          Irkutsk                               CHINA                      Vladivostok                                                                                                                                                                   Palatka
                                                         K A Z A K H S T A N
                                                     Aral                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Talon
ARMENIA               Caspian
                                                     Sea            0   100 200 300 400 500 MILES
                        Sea                                                                                                                                                                                 D.P.R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                             OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ola
          AZERBAIJAN                                                0    200    400    600   800 KILOMETERS                                 M O N G O L I A                                                KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0                 100                    200                                                                                                       Magadan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KILOMETERS                                                                                                       Tauyskaya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Guba
          VORKUTA MUNICIPALITY                                                                                                                                   Tsementzavodsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT SETTLEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                      TO BE CLOSED
                                                                                                                                                                                                    TO BE CONSOLIDATED

                                                                                                                            Yur-Shor                                                                INDUSTRIAL SITES                       NORILSK INDUSTRIAL AREA                                                                                          Ozero
                                                                                         Promyshlenny
                                                                                                                                                                                                    BUILT-UP AREAS                                       INDUSTRIAL SITES                                                                                   Pyasino
                                                                                                                                                                     Severnyi                                                                            BORDER OF NORILSK
                                                                                                                                                                                                    VORKUTA MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                     BOUNDARY                                              INDUSTRIAL AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                    MAIN ROADS                                           BUILT-UP AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                    RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                              Talnakh
                                                                           Vorgashor


                                                                                                                                                                                      0     1     2     3        4       5                              Dudinka
                 Komsomolsky                                                                                                                                                                    KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                    Oktyabrsky                                                                                                                                                                                                         Oranep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Alikel                                                                                           Ozero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                y                                                                                                                                                                             Glubokoye
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ise
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kayerkan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Norilsk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ye




                                                                                                                       Zarechny
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sovetsky


                                                                                                                        Rudnik




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Dudink
                                                       Zapolyarnyi


                            Mulda                                                                                                                             Vorkuta                                                                               0    5      10      15   20     25

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KILOMETERS



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MARCH 2001
