                                                                                       49012

                  RUSSIANORTHERNRESTRUCTURINGPROJECT
                                    PROJECTPAPER

                                      DATA SHEET



ProjectName: NorthernRestructuring             Gersdorff/Tamar Manuelyan-Atinc
Project                                        Country Director: Kristalina Georgieva


Responsibleagency: Foundationfor EnterpriseRestructuring




Current closingdate: March31, 2007
Revisedclosingdate [ifapplicable]: September 30,2(
Indicateifthe restructuringis:

Boardapproved -
RVPapproved              -X

Does the restructuredprojectrequireany exceptions         Yes x N o
to Bank policies?                                         Yes N       o
Havethese been approvedby Bank management?                Yes XNo
I s approval for any policy exceptionsought from the
Board?
Revisedprojectdevelopmentobjective/outcomes [Ifapplicablej

The ProjectDevelopmentObjectivesremainunchanged. The scope o fthe projectwill be expanded
andthe followingmonitoringindicatorwill be formally addedto the originalindicators:
     0  Reducedexpendituresemerginginthe localbudgetsresultingfrom the reduced
        populationand closure ofbuildings.

Does the restructuredprojecttrigger any new safeguardpolicies? Ifso, click here to


                    Source                        Local       Foreign            Total
Borrower                                          13.87         0.00             13.87
IBRD/IDA                                          78.95         1.05             80.00
Others:LFI                                        0.77          0.60               1.37
Total                                             93.59         1.65             95.24




                                              1


                  RUSSIANORTHERNRESTRUCTURINGPROJECT

                                      PROJECTPAPER


Introduction

 1.    This project paper seeks the approval ofthe ECA Regional Vice Presidentto introduce
the following changes in the Russia Northern Restructuring Project Loan number 4611 RU,
project ID: PO64238 and any accompanying amendments to the Project's legal documents.
The major proposedchanges include: (i)the expansion of the migration scheme supported by
the Project to new participating localities, (ii)an increase in the amount of the migration
assistance allowance and (iii)an increase in Government co-financing for the Project. The
proposed changes would enable the Project to meet fully the current project development
objective, to ensure broader dissemination of project results, and to mainstream project
results in nationalpolicies.

Backgroundand reasonsfor restructuring

2.     The Loan Agreement for the Northern Restructuring Project in the amount US$SO
million was signed on July 11, 2001 and became effective on August 15, 2002. The
objectives of the Project are to test measures that will allow Participating Localities to realize
the economic benefits of restructuring and facilitate the implementation of sustainable
municipal policies; and thereby to assist the Borrower in the development of a national
strategy for the restructuringof the economy of the northern areas. The Project includesthree
remote pilot municipalities of the Russia Arctic North (Vorkuta, Norilsk and the Susuman
district). The Project includes the following components: (i)a MigrationAssistance Program
that is financing migration assistance allowances to eligible beneficiaries to facilitate
voluntary out-migration and a public information campaign; (ii)a Local Restructuring
Support component assisting participating localities to implement the local restructuring
plans aimed at generating budget savings as a result of reduced population; (iii)a Monitoring
and Evaluation component that supports project implementation, monitoring, and evaluation
of the Project's economic, fiscal and social impact; (iv) a Federal Policy Support component
for Federal-level out-migration legislation and policy formulation; and (v) a Project
Management and Coordination component which provides for the overall coordination and
execution ofthe project.

3.    The original Project closing date was extended from September 30, 2005 until
December 31,2006. This change was made to allow for the implementation of the third wave
of out-migration support as the originally designed scheme did not result in the expected
levels of out-migration. The revised scheme broadened the category of eligible migrants
enabling the Project to provide migration subsidies to all eligible pensioners residing in
participating localities. As a result of that revision (the April 2004 introduction of the
Government resolution #306), the third wave of migration has been substantially larger,
yielding greater project benefits.     The total number of households that have received
migration support and migrated from the Russia North now stands at 4400 households
(roughly 10,000 people). The reductions in the population have permitted municipal
governments to downsize and consolidate housing infrastructure, thereby generating annual
budget savings totaling US$17.4 million by mid-2006. These saving are expectedto increase
to US$25 million by mid-2007 as a result of expected infrastructure consolidation taking

                                               2

place after the 2006 out-migration increase. The increased levels of out-migration have also
 led to a significant increase in Project disbursements, from US$12.5 million in April 2005 to
US$33 million in December2006. The current level of disbursement is US$33 million (41%
of the loan, although the level of total commitments reaches US$40 million). The Project is
rated"S" both for DO and for IP.

4.     In a letter dated December 15, 2006, the Russian Government requestedthe Bank to
amend the loan agreement, extending the Project Closing Date by thirty (30) months and
introducing several changes into the design of the Project. In response to this proposal, the
Bank has approved short extensions of the closing date until February 15 and then until
March 20, 2007 in order to have more time to prepare and agree on the technical details of
the restructuring proposal with Russian authorities. The main proposed changes include
expandingthe scope of the Project beyond the original Participating Localities and increasing
the level of migration subsidy, in order to maintainits real value and preserve attractiveness
of the project migration assistance scheme. Additionally, the Project will also include
supplementalUS$4.7 million RussianGovernmentco-financing for consultantservicesunder
the Federal Policy Support component and will also introduceuniform mandatory provisions
for transportationcosts paymentsfrom local budgets, while untilnow transportation costs for
Magadanoblast participants were financed from the migration subsidy allocation. Lastly, the
RussianGovernment confirmed its intention to co-finance the migration assistance program
from the 2008-2009 budget if loan funds prove to be insufficient to cover migration needs.
The level of the demand for migration assistance in Participating Localities is expectedto be
established in early 2008.

5,    Overall Northern policy framework has been favorable for Project implementation.
Since 2000, Russia's economy has been growing steadily, and the improved macro
environment and prudent fiscal management have permitted the Government to achieve fiscal
surplus, to finance full intra-governmental transfers, and public social obligations. Major
parts of service delivery and sub-federal fiscal management were concentratedat the regional
government level according to administrative and decentralization reforms. "Special"
Northernsubsidizationpolicy became less pronouncedand its impact declined as the share of
market based employment inthe North increased, overall labor mobility became much more
market driven and other geographic locations (Moscow, St Petersburg, Urals, etc)
demonstrated higher economic growth and pace ofjob creation. Federal Government policy
target of 100% Housing and Communal Services cost recovery is also playing a critical role
in dismantling the Soviet-type subsidizationof the Northern territories. The Government did
not take drastic and politically difficult decisions to eliminate the "northern" hardship
coefficients, but the actual allocation of budget support and public investment resources are
increasingly based on more transparent general principles of regional policies. Inthis context
a broad range of small compartmentalized northern investment programs were eliminated
during 2001-2004. Instead, the northern out-migration assistance under regular federal
programs is increasingly targeted to the non-working Northern population and those
population groups that have higher vulnerability under Northern conditions and thus require
highest public welfare support. A supply-oriented non-transparent housing construction
subsidy was eliminated from the federally financed out-migration programs. This is replaced
with a housingcertificate as an instrumentto allocate demand oriented subsidy for migration
support. Various Northern regions are undertaking cost saving restructuring and downsizing
programs.




                                                3

6.     The local restructuring model piloted under the Northern Restructuring Project has
proved its economic efficiency. It is an effective tool for improved sustainability of the local
budgets, infrastructure and public services rationalization based on reduction of the non-
working populations inthe North, and implementationof consistent local restructuringplans.
The Project developed a useful model combining support to population mobility, technical
assistance to local authorities on critical budget and HCS management issues, and detailed
monitoring of progress in the areas of migration, institutional reform (including housingcost
recovery level), housing and infrastructure consolidation and overall budget savings
generated by the project. Based on these achievements, as well as a debt review and
consultations between key central Ministries and the Northern regions, the Government has
decided to expandthe coverage of the program, and to allocate additional budget resources to
further federal policy development, as well as the out-migration support program, if this
proves necessary.      This demonstrates continued and sustained Government interest and
commitment to the Project's objectives.

Proposed changes

7.    There would be no change in the Project Development Objectives. However, as
mentioned above, the scope of the Project would be expanded beyond the three current
Participating Localities. It is expected that several other localities of the Russia Far North
will take part in the Project. The criteria for participating in the Project include the
following: (i)the localities will need to be officially part of the Russian Far North; (ii)
confirmation of their interest to implement the Project in accordance with the Project
development objectives and its main operating principles; and (iii)compliance with the
Project environmental management plan. The selection ofthe Participating Localities must be
acceptable to the Bank, For each proposed Participating Locality, the Government will
submit to the Bank a justification that will include, inter alia, demographic, economic and
fiscal budget analysis of the Participating Locality and the conclusions of the focus group
analysisundertakenon the ground. The inclusion of new localities inthe Projectwill be made
official through a decision of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, followed by
a confirmation of the Ministry of Finance. Local Restructuring Plans will be prepared and
presented to the Bank for review and approval after the localities are included into the
Project.

8.    Complementarychanges proposedinclude the following:

       a. An increase in the amount of base subsidy amount and simplification of the
           formula used for subsidy calculation. These changes will maintain the
           attractiveness of the migration assistance program under conditions of increasing
           housingprices inmigration recipient regionsof Russia;

      b. Introduction of uniform conditions for subsidy calculation for all the Participating
           Localities that are andwill be participating inthe project.

      c. An increase in Government co-financing for the Federal Policy component. This
           additional allocation would also allow for broader dissemination of the Project's
           lessons in Northern localities, and support the design of the legal and normative
           base necessary for mainstreamingthe Project principles in the regular Government
           budget process. It would also facilitate an increase in the coverage of the housing
           information systemdesignedunder the project.


                                               4

        d. An extension in the Project closing date until September 30, 2009. The length of
           project extensionis definedby the sequence and lengthof necessary steps that need
           to be undertaken inthe migration process;

        e. Transferring responsibility for financing of the LPIUs to ,the Participating
           Localities startingin October 2007. The loan will ensure capacity-building, training
           and information sharingfor the Project staff inthe Participating Localities.

Analysis

9.     ProposedProjectchanges, as outlined above, are based on the positive results generated
primarily during 2005-2006 when broader category of potential migrants was introduced.
Coupled with information and organizational support for the migration process and
implementation of restructuring process this permitted to generate positive results both in
terms o f number of total migrants (around 10,000) and ensure desired budget savings. In
2007, these positive developments will be further complemented by an increase in the
migration subsidy that would be needed to compensate for increasing prices in the housing
market in recipient regions. These adjustmentswould reflect recent changes in the economic
and social environment for the Project, would facilitate the full realization of the original
Project development objectives, and ensure dissemination of Project results in additional
localities of the RussianFar North. The Project's federal component will deliver sustainable
functioning of the housing information system that will reduce transaction costs for the
Northern migrants and for the housing market at large. Revisions of the legal and normative
bases for Northern out-migration support will be based on the experience of the Project
generatedto date.

10.   The expanded Project will maintain its original emphasis and combination of migration
assistance and local economic restructuring measures. The current Project experience has
proven that local administrations, that are facing tighter resource constraints (as is the case in
Magadan oblast and in Vorkuta municipality) would have strong ownership of the Local
Restructuring Plans and would be able to undertake important rationalization and institutional
reform measures. This refers in full to introduction of 100 percent cost recovery in Vorkuta,
strengthening payment collection system, downsizing of "Promishlennij" settlement, and
closing infrastructure inMagadanoblast.

11.   Ongoing Project oversight from the Central (policy) Working Group and Central
Project Implementation Group and extensive Project monitoring during Project
implementation have played a crucial role in ensuring that the most up-to-date information is
available on Project outcomes. The monitoring system includes: (i)weekly reporting on
migration application and housingcertificates processingthat permits to monitor main phases
of migration process in quantitative, financial and geographic dimensions; (ii)quarterly and
semi-annual local restructuring monitoring reports accessing progress in implementation of
the local restructuring; and (iii)social monitoring that provided feedback from various
migrants group at different project phases through statistical, social and quantitative analysis.
All three elements of project monitoring with some modifications will be maintained during
the extendedProject.

12.   The Project implementation scheme also included important social dimensions
(voluntary migration, inclusive participation, sound targeting, and appropriate intervention
for vulnerable groups) which will be preserved under the Project. In support of this scheme,
as mentioned above, full social monitoring will be maintained as an important feedback

                                               5

mechanism that has already assisted in defining a revised broad eligible group for out-
migration support and the resulting introduction of the third wave of migrants in 2005. A
comprehensivetracer study and a survey of migrantssupportedunder the Project is currently
being completed and its conclusions will serve to fine-tune the design of the migration
support scheme and its procedures which is expected to be approved by the Russian
Government in mid-2007. During the proposed Project extension period, focus-groups
analysis will also be undertaken (financed by the loan) in the potential Participating
Localities andthe conclusionswill be presentedto the Bank as part ofthe approval process of
additional localities to be included into the Project.

13. The proposed project restructuring will not lead to any changes in the environmental
category of the Project which will remain B (partial assessment) as was initially defined at
Project design stage. All new Participating Localities will comply with the initial
environmental management plan prepared under the Project. This will be monitored by the
Project's Local Restructuring consultant and also by the local environmental management
departments. An independent consultant will be hired (Procurement Plan for CY 2007) to
assess the appropriate implementation ofthe EMP.

14.   The proposedproject restructuringdoes not imply any exceptionsto Bank policies.

ExpectedOutcomes

15.   The main Project outcomes include (i)physical movement of migrants from the
Northern Participating Localities and (ii)consolidation of housing and social infrastructure
made idle as a result of the out-migration process, thereby resulting in substantial economic
efficiency gains. The Project is supporting a comprehensive monitoring mechanismto collect
necessary statistical, economic and financial information and inform the monitoring
indicators to measure achievement of the said objectives. The following Project indicators
were noted in the attachment to Supplemental Letter #2 from J. Schweitzer to M. Kasianov,
datedAugust 22,2001:

    0  The numberof applications receivedfor participation inthe Project
    0  The numberofcertificates issued
    0  The number of householdsthat have migrated
    0  The level of cost recovery from population, change during the year
    0  The volume of consolidated housing and social infrastructure (buildings and sq,
       meters)

16.   The expanded Project will use the above monitoring indicators; however, one indicator
which was not originally included inthe letter but which has been regularly monitored under
the project will be formally addedto the list in order to reflect the originally intendedProject
objectives, as follows:

    0  Reduced expenditures emerging in the local budgets resulting from the reduced
       population and closure of buildings.

17. In terms of targets, the out-migration target for the remaining loan funds given the
current level of government co-financing will be set at 3460 migrating households (or 7200
people). The amount of infrastructure consolidation will be confirmed as part of the local
restructuringplans.

                                                6

BenefitsandRisks

18.   The main risk factors for the program continueto be associated with increasingprices
for housing in the recipient regions. These price hikes have led to reduced up-take of
migrationcertificates during the first three years of the project and/or pushed many migrants
to lower segments o f the housing market and limited the choice of localities. In order to
address this risk, the restructured Project would more than double the amount of the base
subsidy for the MigrationAssistance program from US$2400 to US$5500. This increase has
been establishedbased on data of actual increase in housing costs in recipient regions and
housing market trends projections.This base subsidy would be used for the proposed forth
wave o f migration which would last until the new project closing date. No additional
increases inthe subsidyis envisionedunder the Project.




                                              7

