RETURN   TO                                      RESTRICTED
REPORTS DESK                                          Report No. TO-566a
WITHIN
ONE WEEK
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its offiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
KENYA
April 21, 1967
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
uS $1              =  K Sh. 7.14
(7 Kenya Shillings and
14 cents)
KSh 1              =  U.S, $0. 14
K Sh 1, 000, 000    =  U.S. $140,000



K E N Y A
SIMA1LLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PRO(JECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUlivIARY           ................,,   i
1. INTRODUCTION ................                                  1
2.  BACKGROUND ....................................,              1
3. THE PROJECT.                                                   3
A. General Description.                                       3
B. Detailed Features              4..
C.  Financial Aspects ........    ....................... .....   6
4i. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT.                                  8
A.  Responsibilities for Project Execution .,                 8
B. AFC's Organization and Management.                         9
C. Staff Requirements.                                        9
5. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .10
6.  CONCLUSIONS i,ITD RECOIS2hDATICKS ........................... , ,,11
ANNEXES
1.  Summary of Loans Available to Farmers
2.  Agricultural Finance Corporation (Tables 1-4 and Organization Chart)
3. Detailed Project Features (Tables 1-8)
4.  Commodity Marketing Boards and Yarket P'rospects
5.  Schedule of AFC's Staff Requirements
6.  Schedule of Agricultural and Veterinary Staff Requirements
TWO IMAPS
This report is based on the findings of the International Develop-
ment Association preliminary appraisal mission to Kenya in March 1966,
composed of Messrs. P.A. Courbois, P.C. Goffin and 0. Pesce of the Interna-
tional Development Association and Kr. R. Bishop of the Food and Agriculture
Organization, and of the subsequent mission in July 1966, composed of
Messrs. C.P. McMeekan, P.A. Courbois and A. Dockx of the International
Development Association. This report was prepared by Messrs. P.A. Courbois
and A.H. Stoneham.



K E N Y A
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUMARY
i.        The Government of Kenya has applied for an IDA credit to help
finance the cLevelopment of smallholdings under close technical supervision.
The project is a follow-up of that which IBRD helped to finance fron 1960
to 1963 under Loan 256-KE and which has been quite successful.
ii.       The project would provide credit for on-farm development and hus-
bandry improvement to about 8,000 selected smallholders on an area of about
80,000 acres over a period of four years, credit for the purchase of trac-
tors and attachments for land preparation on the smallholdings concerned and
funds to strengthen the financial and technical services necessary to admin-
ister the project. The estimated total cost is K Sh 42.9 million (us$ 6.o
million), of which K Sh 29.7 million is for on-farm development, K Sh 5.6
million for tractors and attachments., K Sh 3.3 million for technical staff,
equipment ancl vehicles, and K Sh 4.3 million for the additional expenses of
the AgricultuLral Finance Corporation (AFC) and Government. This cost is to
be met by contributions from farmers and tractor operators of K Sh 7.0
million, Government and its agencies K Sh 1t.2 million, and an IDA credit of
K Sh 25.7 million (US$ 3.6 million) or 60 per cent of the total project cost.
iii.      Credit to farmers would be provided through AFC, a statutory cor-
poration set up in 1963, which would have the primary responsibility for
administration of the IDA credit. The necessary technical services, both
agricultural and veterinary, would be provided by the Ninistry of Agricul-
ture. The essential strengthening of AFC and the technical services is in-
cluded as part of the project.
iv.       The project would improve the standard of agriculture and husbandr,
on the farms involved and provide the families with a substantial cash in-
come.  It would add K Sh 22 million per annum to Kenya's gross national pro-
duct and yield an average annual net return to the economy of ab'out 35 per
cent.
v.        The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$ 3.6 million.



K E N Y A
SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Kenya has applied for an IDA credit to help pro-
vide loans for on-farm development and for the improvement of animal husband-
ry on smallholdings in selected areas. The proposed project is part of a
long-term program of consolidation of smallholdings into viable economic
units with registered titles. The proposed credit of US$ 3.6 million would
supplement Government's resources to permit a total expenditure of about
K Sh 42.9 million (US$ 6.0 million) over a four-year period on the project.
Loans would be advanced through the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC),
and the smallholdings would be under the close supervision of the Govern-
ment's technical agricultural and veterinary services.
1.02      This report is based on a credit application received from the
Government of Kenya and on the findings of a preliminary appraisal mission
which visitecd Kenya in February/March 1966 and was composed of Messrs.
P.A. Courbois, P.C. Goffin and 0. Pesce of IDA and Mr. R. Bishop of FAO, and
a subsequent appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. C.P. McMeekan, P.A.
Courbois and A. Dockx in early July 1966. The Permanent Mission of IBRD in
East Africa and an IBRD mission which visited Kenya in September 1965 assis-
ted the Government of Kenya in the preparation of the project. This apprai-
sal report, to which Mr. A.H. Stoneham also contributed, is based on the
findings of the two missions and on understandings reached during negotia-
tions held in Washington with representatives of AFC and the Government in
January 1967.
2. BACKGROUND OF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOFPENT AND FINANCING
Agricultural Development
2.01      Agricultural and livestock production are the mainstay of Kenya's
economy. In 1965, gross domestic product was K Sh 5.8 billion (US$ 812
million), of which 38 per cent was derived from the agricultural sector.
About 60 per cent from this sector was production either for subsistence or
consumption near the point of production.  Although 85 per cent of the 9.6
million population earn their living from agriculture and grazing, only a
very small number (about 3,000 farmers and 200,000 farm workers) are in the
large farm sector, which produces over 70 per cent by value of the marketed
production. Agricultural and livestock products account for over 80 per cent
of Kenya's foreign exchange earnings, the main commodities exported being
coffee, tea, sisal, pyrethrum, meat and meat products which totaled about
K Sh 568 mil:Lion in 1965. There is a tendency for the composition of these
exports to become more diversified. and there have been growing shipments of
fresh and processed fruits and vegetables, valued at over K Sh 46 million in
1965.



-2-
2.02      Over the last 10 years the marked contrast between the large-scale
market-oriented European farms and the small-scale subsistence farming of
Africans has changed, with a shift of the latter toward commercial agricul-
ture. In the 10 years 1955 to 1964, output from large farms increased in
value by 25 per cent, while marketing of produce from small farms through
organized channels tripled. Even so, it is estimated that the small farm
sector still accounts for only about a quarter of the total value of agri-
cultural output marketed. The objective of Government policy is now to
raise productivity of the small farms rather than to continue with the trans-
fer of land from large to small farms.
2.03      The total area of land now in use in Kenya is approximately 140
million acres, of which about 108 million are devoted to extensive pastoral
farming, and 12 mill:ion to arable farming by smallholders. Seven million
acres are devoted to large-scale farming, of which about two million are
mixed farming anid the remainder mainly ranches and plantations. The balance
of 13 million acres is under forest and game reserves.  About six million
acres of the smallholder lands are potentially highly productive, and it is
in these that this proposed project would be located.
Land Settlement
2.04      Under the Ten-Year Development Plan of 1946-1955, the principle of
freehold ownership of land was substituted for the existing concept of tri-
bal land tenure. The main objectives were the consolidation of fragmented
land and the registration of holdings through the issue of titles of owner-
ship, it being considered that the attainment of these objectives would help
stimulate the development of small-scale farms on a more economical basis.
At the same time it was recognized that without parallel investment in infra-
structure and the provision of services for on-farm development, little
progress could be made.
2.05      A start was made in the more receptive Central and Nyanza Provin-
ces, and in 1955 an intensified campaign, known as the "Swynnerton Plan",
was begun, to which the UK Government contributed funds toward the consoli-
dation and registration of holdings, and IBRD made a loan (256-KE) for in-
vestment in infrastructure and for on-farm development. This Loan was dis-
bursed between 1960 and 1963, and IBRD supervision missions have established
that the project as a whole was quite successful. As at June 30, 1965,
over 250,000 holdings had been consolidated and registered. The Kenya Gov-
ernment now proposes an accelerated program with a target of 500,000 by 1970.
For this program the UK Government is prepared to continue its c,ontributions
provided there are funds for on-farm investment and services.
1/ The UK Government, the Commonwealth Development Corporation and IBRD
are also jointly financing land settlement through Loan 303-KE and
the Federal Republic of Germany is extending bilateral aid for
settlement; neither of these are, however, directly related to the
proposed project.



-3-
Agricultural Credit
2.06      The sources of agricultural credit available to African farmers in-
clude Government agencies and statutory corporations, of which the most impor-
tant are the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC), Agricultural Finance
Corporation (AFK), Kenya Tea Development Authority (KTDA), the Land ard
Agricultural Bank (LAB), and commercial banks (Annexes 1 and 2). Commercial
banks have only recently entered this field with short-term loans and are pro-
ceeding very cautiously, their main problem being the doubtful security of a
first mortgage on the land in view of the difficulties of foreclosure. As of
mid-1965, their loans to African farmers probably represented about five per
cent of their total credit for agricultural purposes. In the past, various
Government agencies have administered funds and credit schemes for smallholder
development, but their impact has been relatively small. The main reasons
for this poor performance include division and dilution of responsibilities
among the agencies responsible for advancing and for collecting the loans,
inadequate follow-up and supervision on the farms, and excessive leniency in
collection policies. The present private and public credit systems have not
been able to provide the African farmer with adequate funds either for develop-
ment or seasonal credit.
3. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The project is part of a long-term program of consolidation of
smallholdings into viable economic units with registered titles. It would
provide credit for on-farm development and improved crop and animal husbandr1Y
to selected smallholders after their farms had been consolidated and regis-
tered. Development would be restricted to farms in the high potential areas
with 25 inches or more of dependable rainfall per year. The project would be
administered by AFC with the assistance of the extension and veterinary ser-
vices. Loans would be made on the basis of farm development plans worked out
with the farmers by trained extension officers. The project would extend
credit to 8,100 farms with a total acreage of about 80,000, and to contractors
for the purchase of tractors and farm machinery for the custom preparation of
land on some project farms. It would also provide funds to augment the staff
of AFC and the supporting agricultural extension and veterinary services, and
for their extra expenses arising from the project. Most of the finance would
be required during the first three years, with a small residual sum in the
fourth year. The total cost of the project is estimated at K Sh 42.9 million
(US$ 6.o million), of which approximately 50 per cent consists of foreign
exchange expenditure.
3.02      The project as originally prepared envisaged a five-year program
covering 50,000 smallholdings. This program was unrealistic, the limitations
being the rate at which staffing of AFC and the technical services can be
expanded, and the fact that the demand for heifers it would have created would
have jeopardized the supply available for the land settlement project financed
under Loan 303-KE. The Kenya Government has agreed to a scaling down of the
original proposals.



- 4 -
B. Detailed Features
Farm Development and Improvement
3.03      Four model farm plans have been devised according to the various
ecological zones (Annex 3, Table 1).  Type I, in the higher altitude areas,
would have three heifers and produce milk for liquid consumption, together
with potatoes and pulses, and could also have an additional area under tea
financed by the farmer himself or by a loan from KTDA. Type II, in areas
of moderate temperature and annual rainfall above 35 inches, would have two
heifers and produce milk for liquid consumption, together with potatoes,
pulses, maize and beans, and could have an additional area under coffee al-
ready in production. Type III would be in the same areas as Type II, but
would not have any cattle, and would produce potatoes, maize, beans and pine-
apples as main crops. Type IV, in other high potential areas, would again
not have any cattle, but would produce cotton, groundnuts, maize and beans
as main crops. The model farm plans have been prepared on the basis of the
smallest unit of economic size, but it is not intended that every farm should
follow precisely these plans. There should be the maximum flexibility and
adaptability in preparing individual farm plans.
3.04      Project farms would be distributed over 18 of the 41 districts of
Kenya, but the map of land-use and distribution shows that there would be
concentration in various areas, which would facilitate supervision and con-
trol. The phasing of the project by type and year is as follows:
Year:    1         2        3      Total Farms
Type I              75       75      150         300
II           125       250      175         550
III        1,250    1,625       925      3,800
IV           500    13000    1,950        3,450
Total Farms     1,950    2,950    3,200        8,100
3.05      Farm development to be financed under the project would include
land clearance; deep plowing of land to permit the establishment of high-
yielding pastures and crops; initial application of fertilizer and pesti-
cides; initial supply of improved seeds and planting material; provision of
all inputs required during the first year of intensive cultivation, including
fencing, watering and livestock handling facilities, farm buildings, equip-
ment and implements for animal health and crop pest control; and graded milch
cows raised in other areas of Kenya. The total estimated cost of on-farm
development is K Sh 29.7 million (uS$ 4.1 million) (Annex 3, Tables 2-5).
Tractor Purchase
3.06      An essential factor in the successful development of this project
is improved preparation of land, which is only possible by mechanical means.
In recent years a number of small contractors, each with one or two tractors
(most of them farming themselves), have done an increasing amount of custom
work for neighboring farners. Present tractor resources are inadequate to



meet the increased demand arising from the project, and it is estimated that
about 230 additional tractors and attachments would be required over a three-
year period. It is proposed that contractors and farmers with recognized
knowledge of tractor operation and maintenance be given suitable credit faci-
lities to enable them to purchase tractors and equipment for use on project
farms. It is anticipated that about one-quarter could be financed from pri-
vate sources, so that AFC would be required to finance about 170 units over
the three-year period at a total estimated cost of approximately K Sh 5.6
million (US$ 0.8 million) (Annex 3, Table 6).
Technical Staff and Equipment
3.07      In order to administer the lending program of this project effi-
ciently, AFC would continue to recruit and train further permanent staff
members, particularly branch managers and loan officers; to provide more
office equipment and transportation at its head office and branch offices;
to build, purchase or hire space for new branch offices. It would also re-
cruit three foreign specialists in the fields of accounting, production
economics and finance in order to help train new and existing personnel and
to augment the existing senior staff until Kenyans can be trained to take
over these posts. These specialists would, furthermore, help to implement
the improved administrative and accounting procedures tentatively agreed to
by AFC and the IDA mission which visited Kenya in July 1966 for this pur-
pose. In addition, the existing technical services of the Ministry of Agri-
culture would be strengthened by recruiting further expatriate agricultural,
livestock and veterinary officers, and by allocating vehicles for their use.
The total estimated cost of the requirements for expatriate staff, office
equipment and vehicles as set out in this paragraph is K Sh 3.3 million
(US$ 0.5 million) over a four-year period (Annex 3, Table 7).  The additional
expenses of AFC and the Ministry of Agriculture arising from the project con-
sist of local personnel, transportation and other equipment not included
above and are estimated at K Sh 4.3 million (US$ 0.6 million) for the first
three years.
Lending Policies and Procedures
3.08      To qualify for credit under the program, farmers would be selected
on the basis of their proven technical skill, working habits, ability, char-
acter and literacy. Membership in cooperatives, attendance at agricultural
training courses, standard of farm development already attained, previous
repayment record and present indebtedness would also be taken into consider-
ation when assessing loan applications. The agricultural extension services
of the Ministry of Agriculture would be responsible for the drawing up of
farm plans, technical appraisal of loan applications and guidance and super-
vision of farmers during the period of the loan. These services would be
under the direction of the Deputy Director of Agriculture, who would be
assigned as Project Officer and be responsible for their coordination and
supervision, and for the close liaison with the management of AFC. Loan
officers on the staff of AFC would be responsible for reviewing all loan
applications recommended by the technical services to assess their financial
implications and creditworthiness. Applications, together with farm plans
and budgets and the recommendations of the technical and loan officers, would



- 6 -
then be submitted through AFC branch managers to local loans committees cui
posed of the AFC branch manager, the district agricultural and veterinary
officers, together with the technical and loan officers responsible for pr(-
cessing each loan application under consideration. The recommendations of
the cor-mittee would not be binding on AFC management, and the responsibilitl;,
for approving or disapproving each loan would remain with the AFC branch
manager.  The above procedures and responsibilities have been agreed on be-
tween the 11inistry of Agriculture and AFC, who have also agreed that they
will not be changed without the prior approval of IDA.
flarketing
3.09      For those commodities which are sold and consumed near the pcint
of production, farmers sell directly to consumers or to licensed traders in
local markets. For those commodities which are of major importance to the
economy of Kenya a number of statutory marketing boards have been set up.
Some engage in market operations themselves, others merely control the condi-
tions of marketing. Some 900 cooperative societies are active in Kerya and
play a significant role in the marketing of milk, coffee, pyrethrum and some
minor crops. Details of marketing boards, market prospects and production
targets for the main commodities produced by farmers receiving loans from
the project are given in Annex 4. All commodities would be marketed through
existing channels, and in general no particular difficulties are envisaged,
although it might be necessary later to develop export markets for cotton,
potatoes and groundnuts, after the full requirements of the domestic market
had been met.
C. Financial Aspects
3.10      The estimated total cost of the project and the proposed sources
of finance are summarized as follows:
K Sh     US$ Equivalent      % of Total
(in millions)
Total Project Cost
On-farm development, crop &
animal husbandry improvement   29.7            4.1               6y
Tractors & attachments             5.6            0.8              13
Expatriate technical staff,
equipment & vehicles             3.3           0.5                8
Additional expenses, AFC &
Government                       4.3           o.6               10
42.9  6.0       100
Sources of Finance
Farmers' & contractors'
contributions                    7.0           1.0               i6
AFC & Government                  10.2            1.4              24
Proposed IDA credit               25.7           3.6               60
42.9           6.0              100



- 7 -
3.11      Costs have been conservatively estimated on the basis of current
prices now prevailing in Kenya, and in the case of on-farm development a
15 per cent contingency margin has been added. A summary of the cost of
on-farm development by farm models and by years is given in Annex 3, Table 3.
The assumptions on which these have been based are set out in detail in
Annex 3, Table 5. A detailed analysis of the total cost of the project is
given in Annex 3, Table 8.
3.12      Farmers and contractors would be expected to provide from their own
resources on average about 20 per cent of the cost of the proposed farm de-
velopment, tractors and equipment, the balance coming from a loan. Payments
on loans would be made against statements of expenditures after checking and
certification by extension officers, and payments for tractors and equipment
would be made to suppliers. Similarly, payments for custom services provided
by contractors would generally be made direct to them. Terms of loans would
as a rule be within the following limits: 10 years for loans for development
of farms of Types I and II, 7 years for farms of Type III, 3 years for farms
of Type IV, and 5 years for tractor loans. Terms for the first three types
would include a grace period of two to three years for repayment of princi-
pal, terms for the fourth type and for tractor loans would be without a
grace period. Loans would be repaid by equated annual installments of prin-
cipal and interest. Security for farm development loans would be a first
mortgage on the registered land and, wherever possible, an irrevocable assign.
ment of the proceeds of sales of crops to cooperatives and marketing boards.
Wherever practicable a chattel mortgage would be taken in addition to the
property mortgage. Security for tractor loans would also be a first mortgage
on registered land wherever practicable, together with a chattel mortgage ori
the tractor in every case. AFC is at present charging 62 per cent on devel-
opment loans, but with the inevitable increase in administrative expenditure
due to the handling of the relatively small loans under the project, this
rate will be insufficient to recover the additional costs, and will, whenever
possible, be raised. An interest rate to farmers for loans under the pro-
ject of 7-. per cent appears to be reasonable.
3.13      AFC would obtain from IDA 80 per cent of the funds required to fi-
nance loans to farmers ard to purchase tractors, and would provide the bal-
ance from its own resources, supplemented as necessary by the Government.
The whole of the cost of expatriate technical staff, office equipment and
vehicles would be met through the IDA credit. The whole of the additional
expenses of AFC and the Ministry would be met by them. There is one other
incidental item requiring expenditure of funds which arises from the imple-
mentation of the project, but which has not been included in the financial
estimates; it is the need for short-term production credit by farmers re-
ceiving project loans which would be provided by AFC. The likely annual
cost of such credit would be of the order of K Sh 10.0 million at full pro-
duction. Assurances have been obtained from the Government and AFC that the
necessary funds to meet this extra expenditure, as well as the funds required
from them for the project itself, would be provided as and when required.
During the disbursement period AFC would receive repayments from some farmers
and contractors of a part of the principal sum loaned to them under the pro-
ject. This has been estimated to amount to K Sh 2.0 million, a sum which
would be used by APC for further loans of a like nature.



-8-
3.14      AFC's interest margin on loans advanced through the project needs
to be about four per cent above its borrowing rate to cover administrative
costs and make a sufficient contribution to reserves to cover bad debts.
AFC would borrow from Government that part of the proposed IDA credit ear-
marked for the purpose at 3i per cent and AFC would make loans under the
project at 7i per cent. Such a lending rate is slightly under commercial
bank and seasonal crop loan rates, but higher than most Government rates for
investment loans. A borrowing rate by AFC from Government of 3 per cent
would be below the rate for its recent loans from Government (5A and 6 per
cent), but would be above its average borrowing rate from Government, which
was about 2.9 per cent in 1965.
3.15      Repayment of the loan advanced by the Government to AFC would be
over 18 years, with a grace period of four years, and by 28 semi-annual in-
stallments of princ#pal and interest. This would take into account the fact
that loans for farms of Types I and II disbursed during the second and third
year would not be repaid until the twelfth and thirteenth year, and would
provide a margin to accommodate some delay in repayments by farmers.
3.16      Disbursement of the IDA credit would be at the rate of 80 per cent
of AFC's payments on loans for on-farm development and tractors, and 100 per
cent of AFC's and Ministry's expenditure on expatriate staff, office equip-
ment and vehicles. The closing date for disbursement would be June 30, 1971.
3.17      Procurement of goods required for the project would be through
regular trade channels. For farm implements and utensils, sprayers, fencing
wire, building materials, equipment for water supplies, fertilizers and pes-
ticides, which account for a large proportion of farm inputs, no difficul-
ties of supply are envisaged.  Foreign suppliers are well represented in
Kenya, and there is keen competition among them. Three items of supplies
will require special attention. Of these, the necessity of increasing the
supply of heifers-in-calf is of particular importance. The other two items,
maize and potato seed, should not be in short supply provided the Government
continues to promote the production of such seeds. Assurances have been
obtained that the Government will give the necessary attention to the prob-
lems of increasing heifer production and maintaining seed production, and
will endeavor to maintain the competitive situation existing among commercial
concerns dealing in farm machinery, equipment and supplies.
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Responsibilities for Project Execution
4.01      AFC will have the primary responsibility for administration of the
credit with the assistance of the Ministry of Agriculture. The question of
the separate responsibilities of the Government and AFC for lending policies
and procedures has been discussed in para 3.08. IDA would be consulted prior
to any appointments or changes in the office of General Manager of AFC and
the Project Officer in the Ministry of Agriculture.



- 9 -
B. AFC's Organization and Management
4.02      AFC was established as a statutory corporation in 1963 to provide
credit for the development of agriculture; full details are given in Annex 2.
Government is considering a merger between AFC and LAB, but details have not
yet been finalized. At present the two corporations retain their distinct
legal entities, and staffs and accounts are kept separate, but the General
Manager of AFC has also been appointed Manager of LAB. Membership of both
corporations has been reconstituted and now comprises the same eight persons
as members of both. Assurances have been given that no further steps toward
the proposed merger would be taken without prior agreement with IDA.
4.03      AFC derives its resources from funds handed over by the Treasury
on various terms and interest rates. Assurances have been given by the
Government that its financial structure would be strengthened. To this end
the Government would waive interest on K Sh 20.6 million of its irredeemable
development loans (at present at 51 per cent) as from January 1, 1968, there-
by effecting a saving in interest charges of over K Sh 1.1 million per year.
The Government has also agreed that it will not charge interest at a rate
higher than 31 per cent on any loans with a maturity of more than a year
made by it to the AFC. Furthermore, AFC would not incur debts with a matur-
ity of more than a year without the approval of IDA. Assurances have been
given that AFC would charge its borrowers interest rates which would enable
it as a minimum to cover its operating expenses, to provide an adequate re-
serve against bad debts and to pay interest to Government on its loans, in-
cluding the proceeds of the IDA credit; that the interest rate would be re-
viewed periodically; and that no change in the rate would be made without
prior agreement with IDA.
4.04      AFC also acts as agent for Government in some of the latter's dir-
ect agricultural lending operations. In order to ensure that AFC is not
burdened with such agency duties in excess of its capacity to fulfill them
expeditiously and profitably, assurances have been given that Government will
neither alter existing arrangements nor assign any further duties without
prior consultation with IDA.
C. Staff Requirements
4.05      The project involves doubling the average number of lending opera-
tions that AFC processed in 1965 both on its own account and as agent for
the Government. These two current activities are expected to develop on
their own, parallel to those of the proposed credit. This underlines the
necessity for strengthening and improving AFC's organization, as well as
that of the technical agricultural services. Recruitment and training of
staff by AFC has been actively pursued in 1966 and new recruitments by AFC
and assignment of staff to the project by the Ministry of Agriculture would
be made in accordance with the schedules at Annexes 5 and 6, which would be
subject to revision from time to time by agreement with IDA. These schedules
are based on existing staffing patterns which are considered to be satisfac-
tory provided that appraisal and supervision procedures are simplified and
streamlined in the light of experience as thie project gets underway.



- 10 -
4.o6      Serious problems may be encountered over the recruitment of local.
loan officers and technical assistants in agriculture, animal husbandry and
veterinary services.  Full staff for the project can be obtained partly by
diverting staff from other duties of lower priority within the departments
concerned. The successful development of Types I and II farms needs espe-
cially the assignment of experienced extension officers conversant with ani-
mal husbandry as well as some concentration of effort by the Veterinary De-
partment for the norms and yields assumed (Annex 3, Table 5) to be realized.
The Government is well aware of the general staffing problems involved in
agricultural development, and appreciates that the project when underway will
increase them. It intends to establish one or two further training centers
in addition to the existing center at Embu to train technical assistants in
agriculture and veterinary services, and it is anticipated that at a later
date this may result in the submission to IBRD/IDA of a comprehensive agri-
cultural education project designed as a long-range solution to existing
staff problems. AFC's loan officers, when newly recruited, are given an
intensive training program before taking up their assignments in the field.
5. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The average income, including subsistence, per farm family before
receiving a loan under the project is assumed to be about K Sh 1,300 per
annum. This figure is derived from countrywide figures of production in the
small farm sector given in an economic survey made by the Ministry of Agri-
culture. After receiving a loan from the project, and when full production
is reached, it is estimated that the average gross income per farm family
should rise to about K Sh 5,900 per annum, and the net income, including sub-
sistence but before debt service repayments, should be about K Sh 3,900 per
annum. The net income after debt service would be about K Sh 3,000, the net
incremental income being K Sh 1,700. Hence, the project will provide a sub-
stantial number of smallholders' families not only with larger and more re-
liable subsistence crops, but also with fairly large cash incomes.
5.02      On the basis of the assumptions as to yields and prices given in
Annex 3, Table 5, the following table gives the estimated annual volume and
value by commodities of the increased output after nine years, when full pro-
duction would have been reached:
V o l u m e          V a 1 u e
(K Sh million)
Milk               800,000 gals.           1.20
Maize              388,000 bags            7.75
Potatoes            31,500 tons            7.00
Groundnuts           7,800 tons            7.76
Cotton              10,000 bales           5.18
Beans/Pulses       125,000 bags            6.34
Pineapples          55,000 tons            6.38
Vegetables                                 6.Oh
Culled cattle                              0.17
OeTAL                                 ! 5



- Ii -
5.03      Total output at full production of farms to be aided by the project
would be K Sh 48 million per annum. Operating costs would be K Sh 16 mil-
lion, and the value added would thus be K Sh 32 million. The annual con-
tribution to the gross national product of these farms before receiving any
loans from the project has been estimated to be K Sh 11 million. Deducting
this from the value added, the contribution by the project to the gross na-
tional product would be valued at K Sh 21 million per annum. Some of the
commodities produced would be exported, but the gain in foreign exchange
from this source would be largely offset by increased imports to meet farm
input requirements. After reaching full production, the foreign exchange
cost of the project would be about K Sh 10 million and the foreign exchange
earnings K Sh 11 million per annum. Most of the incremental contribution
to the gross national product of the farms not in the form of exports, about
K Sh 10 million, would save foreign exchange. As the population increases,
Kenya would, in effect, have to increase its imports or reduce its exports
of food commodities if the proposed project were not implemented.
5.04      The annual average net return to the economy, calculated over the
life of the project, is estimated to be about 35 per cent, after taking into
account the project investment, the gross value of production, on-farm oper-
ating expenditures, the value of production before the project started and
the AFC and Government expenditures on the project.
6. CONCLUSIONS AND RBCONENDATIONS
6.01      During credit negotiations the following agreements, assurances
and understandings were arrived at between the Government, AFC and IDA:
a) Prior to signing the credit documents the Government
would assign the Deputy Director of Agriculture as
Project Officer, responsible for the coordination and
supervision of the agricultural extension services
working on the project, and for close liaison with AFC
(para 3.08);
b) The agreed lending policies and procedures, and the
respective responsibilities of the Government and AFC
would not be changed without the prior approval of IDA
(para 3.08);
c) The terms for on-lending by the Government to AFC of
part of the proposed IDA credit would include interest
at 3j per cent per annum, a total loan period of 18
years, with a grace period of 4 years and repayment by
28 semi-annual installments (para 3.15);
d) The Government would provide the additional expenses
of AFC and the Ministry of Agriculture arising from
the project and would provide AFO with its share of
the funds necessary to finance the project as and when
required (para 3.13);



- 12 -
e) The Government would give the necessary attention to the
problems of increasing heifer production and maintaining
seed production, and would endeavor to maintain the con-
petitive situation existing among commercial concerns
dealing in farm machinery, equipment and supplies(para 3.07);
f) No further steps toward the proposed merger of AFC and
LAB would be taken without prior agreement with IDA
(para 4.02);
g) The financial structure of AFC would be strengthened, by
the Government waiving interest on part of the irredeem-
able development loans, and by the Government not charging
interest at a rate higher than 3j1 per cent on any new loans
with l maturity of more than a year (para 4.03);
h) AFC would: charge its borrowers interest rates which would
enable it as a minimum to cover its operating expenses, to
provide an adequate reserve against bad debts and to pay
interest to Government on its loans; enaure that the in-
terest rate is reviewed periodically; and not change the
rate without prior agreement with IDA (para 4.03);
i) The Government would neither alter the existing arrange-
ments whereby AFC acts as agent for Government in some of
the latter's direct agricultural lending operations nor
assign any further agency duties to AFC without prior con-
sultation with IDA (para 4.04);
j) IDA would be consulted before any changes were made in the
appointment of the General Manager of AFC and the Project
Officer in the Ministry of Agriculture (para 4.01);
k) Recruitment and training of AFC staff, and assignment of
Ministry of Agriculture personnel to the project, would be
made in accordance with the schedules at Annexes 5 and 6
(para 4.05).
6.02      Subject to the foregoing, the project is technically sound and
economically justifiable. It is suitable for an IDA credit of US$ 3.6 mil-
lion, representing 60 per cent of the total project cost.
April 21, 1967



AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJ?CT
Swrr-y Ter  aad Condition  of Various Loe_a  Aailble to lKn    Farmers
an at July 1966
Interest
Loan Cat.oKries            Credit It titutiomn       Beneficiaries                 nrovo                      Sias of Lone                 Rates                 Security                       'r.
Zrop Loans
Zotton                   AMC am agnt for           Cooperatiwa                                         I Sb 40,oOOD/aoci&                  84                     Crop                    Na. I yr
Cotton Lint & 3esd
Marketing Board                               Crop
uarnateed in.
return for:  dinht         ABC a  agent for         Frarm growing                                       For 196i obt" Sh 170/               8           Production agre_ment                a. 1 yr
d,eat Board              a *inimam of 1S                                     acre  br planth,  & Sh 30
acra  Of misse                                     fa  bacyseing.
al..         AFC a  agent for         or wheat                                           NHybri  ml" 3  180are                            Ooot, crop inaumnce
Na!.. Marketing                                    PYC*AW1e                 fa  pimating r Sb 30 fwr
Board                                                                       harvating.  Other mast
S3  100 & Ss 20
Adance paymerta for        Sewra Farmers            Largea-cale                                         Up to 80% of o arrb Wlo             8 vapVb IM
awat &  aisn               sa. &a aget feyaer                                                           of er  p    oc4in  to pant                                                         delivery
for Nails Marketing                                          03w            daliveoy r.Oa*
Board
5 rley                     1arg  br_ecris           Naiting barley                                      Sh 100/ami  for platAng            D.termimd  at  granting  annually
prodtecar                                            harnsau
Mcdiau- & Long-Tom
Loapn
Land mortgage              Land bat* of Kera        faromrs (setl         Lud pwcha_a  6 pem-           bxm  6m60o         alf appra i     6l          ftrtag  oun reagistered la         UJp to 30 yr.
large-ac4s)          nmt imrovenmt                 vlub of peqarty. up to                         t dditional .scurit
8S with  Uat. gmaemtme                         (chattel anrtgag  & aesigw-
-at Of pYocam   of mals of
D emlopsent                A F C                    lArzg-shle P0rm0  oi                 ,wtl obmmsJ.i  d        m     a  8,0DD             61         crops or oth r renus eUp to 15 yr.
falmrs (rev.         porrkeae of livestock                                                         shanaver poamdbla)
over Ut 10,000)      & tam. e.hiumo7,
feoncig, wate  sup-
plies & eqmip.mt
Agraria                    AC a  agent for          Small-scale (r        On-f     dassiapuet           Fro  Sb 400 to Sh 5,000           6                                               5 yr.
Mini"tr  of              farmers (rev.
Agricultur.              undar Sh 10,000)
Coop  approvd        Co,wtruction _cMsery          Frm Soh  ,000                       6           Property mortgg  & eddi-           Up
by Cnmsaioar                                                                                       tional sacurity ismevar               to
for Coops.            h                                                                           po cuibla.                                10
African Dist.        Water napplia                      Sb NS,00                       6           so sesocAty                          .       yr,
Coumdmii
pi-mapirin plantotlom      AnC as agent f.r         Parser within         Eetablinhinsa  of            In amearemsi  with                  61,         Aasignment of proceeda of          5yr.
MUinstry of              none of supply        plantations                  farm     wa&e & _aerity                         crop deliveries to eane  ry
Agriculture              of cannery
T.&                        Lenya T" D-y.            Tea prockegrs         ftaeblis,mnt of pim-         up to 22 osete/etunp or             a½          flelivarie  to factory, a          (no epeifled
Authority                                      tationT  (puro_tm  of p      Sh 540/r,                                       cegs of 7 cents/lb grewn           term) '-8 yr.
tee *taw)                                                                    leaf is deducted until
loan repaid
Varied p.rposes            Comercial banks          Large-scale           Varied purposes                                                7*-09         Property mortgage  & eddi-         Vp to 3 yr.
falmer  (.asity                                                                                   tiCon   security such as
ta ,  coffee                                                                                      asignmnt of salary or
gm""se).                                                                                          chattel.
Financing co.            Large-ecal.           Purchase of tractor          Up to 70% of purheb               15-20        Rapop etsion of tractor             Vp to 2 yin
farser. &            units                                                                        unit
Land . ttlement            Dpt. of Lands            Settlers              Lend purchase, housing,      Price of land                       6           Charge on lend                     Lp to 30 yr
t, Settlemet                                   fencing.
Payment of first             Accordiig to needs                  6½          Zharge on ervable anont.           Up to 10 yr.
Ice talbeent 6 intereot                                                     & coPs
of loan for land
purch. .
S.biist-nve h pproved
iteo o- for. bhdget
HE



ANNEX 2
Page 1
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
General
1.        The Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) was established in 1963
to provide credit for the development and promotion of agriculture and any
related industry. Its creation was aimed at centralizing in one institution
the agricultural credit activities scattered among several public agencies.
It is a statutory corporation under the direct responsibility of the Minister
of Agriculture.
2.        AFC carries out credit operations from its own resources within
the framework of the Government's agricultural policies. It may also admin-
ister lending operations as agent of the Government or any public body.
There are no statutory restrictions regarding eligible borrowers, who may be
farmers, cooperative societies, private companies or public bodies. There
are no legal restrictions on any activities that are related to its aims and
objectives; it must, however, consult with the Treasury before investing or
depositing its funds, and its borrowings are subject to the limitations im-
posed by the Treasury. AFC's head office is in Nairobi. As at the end of
1965 six branches were operating, mostly in the Central and Western Pro-
vinces (see map), and three more were opened in 1966. In addition, 13 loan
officers are stationed at these and other locations.
Administration and Management
3.        AFC's governing body now consists of eight members who must hold
meetings at least once a quarter. The membership includes two ex-officio
(the Permanent Secretaries of the Ministries of Agriculture and of Finance),
nominees of the Ministers of Agriculture and Finance designated for their
professional capacities, and one representative of the Central Agricultural
Board. The Chairman is appointed by the Minister of Agriculture after con-
sultation with the Minister of Finance, and has a casting vote. Members'
term of office is three years, and they are eligible for reappointment.
There are no stated disqualifications for membership. The composition of
AFC's governing body is intended to ensure representation of both Government
and private interests, and at the same time to take advantage of persons
experienced in agriculture and finance. Political interference is possible
because of the system of appointment.
4.        A loan committee has been appointed, which meets every 3 to 4
weeks to make loan decisions on the basis of reports submitted by the Gen-
eral Manager. The General Manager is appointed by the Minister of Agricul-
ture, after consultation with the Minister of Finance. He is the chief ex-
ecutive and has recently been given additional authority enabling him to
carry out his dities with maximum efficiency.
Personnel
5.        Personnel includes civil servants seconded from Government service.
Conditions of employment are determined by the Corporation, but must be
approved by the Ministry of Finance. Rates of remuneration are above those
of Government employees, but below those of commercial bank staff. Total



ANNEX 2
Page 2
staff as at December 31, 1966 was 133, of which 55 were at head office and
78 in field offices (see map at end of this Annex). Recruitments of new
staff totalled 50 in 1966; but the establishment, especially in the field,
will require additional strengthening. AFC is prepared to pursue active
recruitment and training to cope with the increase in workload arising from
its new activities.
Administrative Organization
6.        Up to the beginning of 1966 the administrative organization was
rather rudimentary and was inadequate for its operations. There has since
been a general strengthening at all levels, as noted in this Annex. With
the further strengthening as proposed in the main report it is considered
AFC will be able to carry out efficiently the duties and responsibilities
assigned to it under this project. A chart of the present organization is
attached to this Annex.
Auditing
7.        AFC is under the permanent supervision of the Ministry of Finance.
Its accounts must also be audited and reported upon annually by the Auditor
General or other auditors as may be appointed by the Minister of Agriculture.
This second alternative has been followed so far, and appears to be satisfac-
tory. An internal auditor has been appointed.
Credit Activities
8.        Direct lending.  Since its inception, AFC has approved the follow-
ing loans:
Number      Amount        Avera
(K Sh m)(7Ss
1963/64 (18 months)      358       12.26         34,200
1 9 6 5                  540       17.56         32,500
TOTAL     898        29.82        33,200
Total disbursements as of December 31, 1965 amounted to K Shs 25.1) million.
Loans were made to large-scale farmers, that is, those with annual cash
earnings over K Shs 10,000. Purposes for which loans were granted included
purchase of stock, fencing, dip, sprays, water supplies, farm buildings and
machinery. More than 60 per cent of loans made was for purchase of stock,
especially dairy cattle. Terms are up to 15 years, but the majority of
loans is for about five years; repayments are in equal annual installments
of principal and interest, interest rate being 6i per cent. Loans are made
against a first charge on land, movable assets and crops. The borrower has
usually to provide over 20 per cent of the total cost of the project. Pro-
cessing of loan applications includes an appraisal by the branch manager,
and whenever considered necessary by the district agricultural officer, sub-
mission of the application and proposals of the branch manager to a district



ANIEX 2
Page 3
agricultural committee, which makes recommendations to the head office loan
committee.  This strict centralization was not conducive to rapid decisions,
nor was it suited to small-scale lending operations. Following the strength-
ening of the field staff, authority for granting loans up to various amounts
has been given to the General Manager.
9.        Crop advances.  These are seasonal advances for cash operating ex-
penses, recoverale   om crop proceeds made to farmers growing a minimum of
15 acres of maize or wheat. Funds raised by the Government and statutory
board sources at 5 per cent are relent to farmers at 8 per cent. AFC receives
3 per cent as agency fee, and i per cent is utilized to meet costs of field
inspections. Over recent years, operations have involved a small number of
loans,on the average about 1,200, amounting to K Shs 20 to 26 million per
annum. Repayment records have been reasonably satisfactory. A similar scheme
is operated on behalf of the Cotton Lint and Marketing Board, but loans are
made to cotton growers' cooperative societies of up to K Shs 40,000 per socie-
ty within the present resources of K Shs 2 million assigned to the scheme.
10.       Agrarian loans.  These have been made since 1948 through various
agencies, and are now administered by AFC on an agency basis for the Govern-
ment. They include loans to individual small farmers (income under K Shs
10,000) and cooperatives for investment purposes, to Joint Boards (now abol-
ished) for relending to farmers, and to County Councils mainly for water sup-
plies, and finally for special agricultural projects. Loans to farmers and
cooperatives, and their collection, are now the responsibility of AFC. The
processing of individual loans involves an appraisal by local district agri-
cultural officers and screening by a district agricultural committee for loans
under K Shs 10,000 and a provincial agricultural committee for loans over
K Shs 10,000. The final decision is made by AFC's head office. Loans are
mostly for periods under five years, interest is at the rate of 6 per cent.
Recoveries are made through the local District Commissioners with the aid of
the Corporation's loan officers.  Repayment records have been bad in the past,
they have improved since the Corporation started operating.
11.       Agrarian loans have been financed from appropriations of the Gov-
ernment of Kenya, grants and loans from IGA, IBRD (Loan 256-KE) and the Fed-
eral Republic of West Germany. Some K Shs 36 million in loans had been ad-
vanced up to the end of 1965. AFC receives a subsidy for handling these
loans, fixed at K Shs 750,000 for the period 1963-1967.
Pineapple Loan Expansion Scheme
12.       Government has recently initiated a pineapple loan expansion scheme
in execution of an agreement with the California Packing Corporation. Under
the agreement the Government undertakes that sufficient tonnage of fruit of
suitable quality will be produced by smallholding outgrowers. The Corpora-
tion will act as agent for the Government and extend credit to growers. By
December 1965, K Shs 1 million was earmarked for the scheme and an additional
K Shs 600,000 was appropriated for 1966.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Financial Situation
13.       A summary of AFC's financial operations up to the end of 1965 is
presented in Tables 1 to 4 of this Annex. Subject to a stringent collectiuii
policy, the probable total of uncollectible loans may not exceed K Shs 1.2
million, of which about K Shs 0.5 million has been written off during the tw,
years to the end of 1965. AFC's financial situation is considered to be
sound.  Provision has been made under the project for strengthening it, in
particular by waiving interest on the greater part of the loans provided by
the Government.
14.       Profits for the fiscal period 1963/64 (about 18 months) and the
year 1965 were K Shs 1.02 million and K Shs 220,000 respectively. The drop
in 1965 is due to an increase in administrative expenses, mostly due to per-
sonnel, which was far greater than the increase in income. This reflects an
administration build-up before operations could be increased. AFC's manage-
ment also suggests that in 1965 the cost of administering small agrarian
and crop loans has exceeded the related commission and subsidies received
from the Government.  The system of remuneration for these operations is
under review.  Profit for 1966 is expected to be similar to that for 1965.



ANNEX 2
TABLE 1
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE COR.PORATION
Loan Recoveries During the Year 1965
(in K Shs millions)
Loan Category            Rehabilitation   ICA    Development  Total
(1) Amount due and repayable          1.57        1.26       3.75      6.58
(2) Amount received                   1.20        0.13       3.07      4.40
(3) Amount written off                0.05         --        0.05      0.10
(4) Amount overdue 12/31/65           0.32        1.13       o.63      2.08
(4) = (1)-(2)-(3)
(5) Percentage recoveries
(2) 4 (1) x 100                   76          10         82        67
All figures shown include principal and interest.
"Amount due and repayable" includes amount overdue
at beginning of year.



AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
Delinquent Loan Situation July 31, 1963 and December 31, 1964 and 1965
(amounts in K Sh million)
- -   - -July 1, 1963-              - - - December 31, 1964 - - - -    - - - December 31, 1965 - - - -
Total Loans                         Total Loans                          Total Loans
L o a n s           Outstanding   Overdue   Overdue    Outatanding   Overdue   Overdue    Outstanding   Overdue   Overdue
(as % total)                        (as % total)                         (as % total)
Rehabilitation           7.77        1.05      13.5          4.00        0.46       11.5          2.31         0.32      13.8
I C A                   1.84         0.56      30.4          1.61        0.77       47.8          1.48        1.13       76.4
Development            24.45         2.37       9.7         26.85        0.86        3.2         36.86        o.63 11.7
Total & Average %       34.06        3.98      11.7         32. 46       2.09        6.4         40.65         2.08       5.1
_~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~r .                   Z
r'3t
N) r



ANJNEX 2
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION          TABLE 3
Summarized Income and Expenditure Statements
(in K She million)
- 1963/64----
(18 mos.)           1 9 6 5--
Amount       % -    Amount       TY
I N C O M E 
Interest Earned:
L o a n s
Development                      2.30                1.97
Rehabilitation                   0.40                0.14
IGA                              0.11               0.13
M81        4.11    rE          L4.21
Investments                        0.43       0.63    0.79        1.49
Bank accounts                      0.06       0.08    0.03        0.06
Sub-total                 3.30        4.82    3.06        5.76
Government subsidy & agency commis.   0.74        1.08    0.68        1.28
Applications & legal fees              0.12        0.18    0.17       0.32
TOTAL INCOME               4.16       6.08    3.91        7.36
E X P E N D I T U R E
Interest on capital                    1.32       1.94    1.31        2.46
Administrative & other expenses        1.80        2.63    2.38       4.48
TOTAL EXPENDITURE          3.12       4.57    3.69        6.94
Profit                                 1.04       1.51    0.22        0.42
TOTAL EXPENDITURE
& PROFIT                   4.16       6.08    3.91        7.36
Profit: All profit has been transferred to reserves.
/ Percentages:  Show income and expenditure as percentages per annum of
average resources involved in AFC:
1) for the 18 months period 1963/64: K Shs 45.7 million;
2) for 1965: K Shs 53.2 million



AINNEIX
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
Summarized Balance Sheets
(in K Sh million)
As at:
~T   Dec.31,    Dec.31,
1963        196I iy65
A S J E T S
Loan portfolio -
Loans not yet due
Rehabilitation loans                 6.72         3.35       1.86
ICA loans                           1.28         0. 84       0.35
Development loans (less
undisbursed loan)             22.08        2it.54     34.32
Subtotal                       30.Oe        28.73       36.53
Loan current accounts
Rehabilitation loans
Principal & interest overdue      1.05         o.46        U.33
Interest earned not yet due        --          0.19        0.12
ICA loarns overdue                  0.5(         0.77        1.13
Development loans
Principal & interest overdue      2.37         0.86        0.63
Interest earned not yet due        _           1.45        1.91
Subtotal                        3.98         3.73        4.12
Total loan portfolio                    34.06       32.46       40.65
Short-term investments                    --        15.53       12.80
Staff advances                            --         0.07        0.16
Yiscellaneous assets                     6.9L        0.42        0.23
Cash in hand & banks                      --         1.68        1.47
Fixed assets                              --         0.29        0.71
TOTAL ASSETS                   Ll.00        50.45       56.02
L I A B I L I T I E S
Capital account
Rehabilitation revolyfrng fund .    18.75         16.75       18.79
ICA revolving fund                     2.50        2.50        2.50
Development capital                  12.61        20.61       26.61 1/
Subtotal                       33.86        l1.86       L7.86
Sundry creditors                          --         0.59        0.12
Provisions                                --         0.18        0.20
General reserve fund 4/                  7.14        7.82        7.84
TOlAL LIABILITIES              41.00        50.45       56.02
1/  All new loans are development loans, whatever the sources of fina>?r-.
2/  Irredeemable, interest free.
3/  K Sh 20.61 million irredeemable, interest 5<- ?mr cent p.a.   h
interest of this portioti will be waived as .> a-i.l, 1'.
K Sh 6.00 million redeemable, interest 6 per cent p.a.
4/  Durinig the period 1963-1965, the general reserve fund was
debited with an amount of K Sb, 0.56 millio;  1' unT?il-ctit-



KENYA: AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD
8  DIRECTORS AND CHAIRMAN
LOAN COMMITTEE
4 DIRECTORS AND CHAIRMAN
GENERAL MANAGER
I        I              _    _   _    _~~~          I 
MANAGER  
LARGE SCALE LOAN    SMALL SCALE LOAN       CROP PRODUCTION        GOVERNMENT             ACCOUNTS         ADMINISTRATION AND
DEPARTMENT           DEPARTMENT              LOANS               AGENCIES             DEPARTMENT            PERSONNEL
AUDIT
I O                       LOCAL ADVISORY
BRANCH OFFICES                    COMMiTTEE
IIIIIII13zII|                                                                                                         LEGAL
LOAN OFFICES
Branches: KISUMU, ELDORET, KITALE, KERICHO, NAKURU, NYERI, NAIROBI, EMBU, MERU ond KIAMBU.
(RI 19RD-2979



ANNEX 3
TABLE 1
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Characteristics of Farm Types
TYPE i
Ecolcgical Zones
Zones which have good, deep soils, an armual rainfall of 35It and
above, located at high altitudes and therefore having low rninimum
temperatures. They are suitable for mixed farming, with tea, dairy-
ing, potatoes and pulses as major crops.
Type Model: 7 acres
Proposed Development
Extension of farmland, introduction of high productive pastures and
fodder crops and dairy stock, intensive cultivation of potatoes and
subsistence crops, through improved land. preparation, utilization of
improved seed, fertilizers and pesticides, restriction in cultivation
of maize unsuited to high elevation, installations for sheltering and
handling cattle, provision of water supplies.
Land-Use
a)  Before Development
Acres
Mlaize                      1.0
Pulses (2 crops)            1.0
Potatoes (2 crops)          1.0
Garden (2 crops)            0.5
Area cropped per annum:  6 acres
b)  After Development
Acres
Pastures                   4.00
Pota toes/pulses
(1 crop each)               2.00
Fodder                      0.50
Garden (2 crops)            0.25
6.75
A.rea cropped per annum:  5 acres



ANNEX 3
TABLE 1
Page 2
TYPES II & III
Types II and III are in the same ecological zone. Both types may have
established, coffee plantations bringing significant income. They
differ in that Type II farmers will develop dairying, while Type III
will not and will grow pineapples.
Ecological Zone
This zone has good deep soils, moderate temperatures and a. rainfall
of 35" and above. Two crops a year of maize, potatoes, beans and
pulses can be grown under appropriate rotations. The related areas
which extend over 14 districts are suitable for coffee, maize,
dairying, pineapples and a large variety of agricultural produce.
TYPE II
Type Model: 7 acres
Proposed Develcpment
Small extension of farmland, introduction of two cattle units per
farm, high productive pastures and fodder crop, intensive cultivation
of maize, potatoes and minor crops, through improved land preparation,
utilization of improved maize and potato seeds, of fertilizers and
pesticides, installations for sheltering and handling cattle, provision
of water supplies.
Land-Use
a)  Before Development
Acres
Maize (2 crops)             3.0
Potatoes (2 crops)          1.5
Pulses (2 crops)            1.0
Annual area cropped:  11 acres
b) After Development
Acres
Pastures                    3.00
Fodder                      0.50
Maize/beans (1 crop
each)                       2.00
Potatoes/pulses
(1 crop each)               1.00
Garden (2 crops)            0.25
Area cropped per annun:  7 acres



ANNEX 3
TABLE 1
Page 3
TYPE III
Type Model: 6 acres
Proposed Development
Progressive introduction of pineapple growing at the expense of maize
and beans, intensive cultivation of potatoes, maize and beans through
improved technology.
Land-Use
a) Before Development
Acres
Maize (2 crops)             3.0
Potatoes (2 crops)          1.5
Pulses (2 crops)            1.0
Area cropped per annum:  11 acres
b)  During and After Development
Year:    1      2     3     h      5     6
* (in acres)(in.cres
Potatoes (2 crops)           1.00  1.00  1.00  1.00  1.00  1.00
Maize/Aeans                  3.50  3.00  2.50  2.00  2.00  2.00
Pineapples                   0.50  1.00  1.50  2.00  2.00  2.00
Garden (2 crops)             0.75  0.75  0.75  0.75  0.75  0.75
35*77, :7.7   5.75 777  :757  7773
Area cropped per annum from 4th year on:  9.50
TYPE IV
Type Model: 14 acres
Ecological Zone
Type IV farms may be located in two ecolcgical zones: (1) one has
good deep soils with a reliable rainfall of 25" or more per year.
Relevant areas are at medium altitudes and have relatively high
temperatures. Two crops per year can be grown. High yields can be
achieved with fertilizers; (2) the other one has good soils, high
temperatures, high humidity and a reliable rainfall of 25" and above.
Relevant areas are located at lower altitudes.  They are extensively
covered with bushes which can be c'eared for development.  Two crops
can be grown each year,



ANNEX 3
TABLE 1
Page I4j
Proposed Developent
Land clearing of eight acres, deep plowing over the whole farmland,
intensive cultivation of cotton, groundnuts, maize and food crops
through improved technology.
Land-Use
a)  Before Development
Acres
Maize (2 crops)            3.0
Pigeon peas or cotton      1.0
Beans (2 crops) (or
cotton)                    1.0
Groundnuts                 0,5
Area cropped per annum: 8.5 to 9.5
b) After Development
Acres
Cotton                     4.00
Groundnuts                 4.50
Maize/beans                4.50
Garden (2 crops)           0.75
13.75
Area cropped per annum: 19 acres



ANNQI  3
TABLE 2
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Investment Cost Estimates and Financing by Farm Type
TYPE I:  7 acres - Dair7ing, Maize, Potatoes
Investment Costs               1st Year        2nd Year
...... Fin   K Sh)T 
Heifers                          2,000           1,000
Fencing                            800             150
Implements, sprayers,
utensils                         310
Milkshed, crusN attachments        400
Initial deep plowing (2.75 acres) 275
Initial fertilizer                 230
Initial pesticides                 125
Improved seed potatoes             900
Wiater supplies                  1,200
Contingencies (15%)                935             170
Sub-total        7,175           1,320
Fertilizer subsidy                  25              10
Total             7,200          1,330
Fina ncing                        K Sh
GovernmTent (fertilizer
Subsidy)                          35
Farmer                           1,695
AF(' loan                        6,800
Tota.l           B;§53
Terms of AFC Loan:  10 years, including a twro year grace period
for principal, repayment in eight equal annuities of K Sh
1,183.



ANUEX 3
TABLE 2
Page 2
TYPE II: 7 acres - Dairying, M4aize, Potatoes
Investment Costs                     K Sh
Heifers                              2,000
Fencing                                600
Water supplies                       1,200
Milkshed, crush & attachments          400
Spray pumps & implements               310
Initial deep plowing (3.75
acres)                               375
Initial fertilizers                    300
Pesticides                              65
Potato seeds                           450
Contingencies (15%)                    850
Sub-total            6,550
Fertilizer subsidy                      30
Total                6,580
: inancing
Government subsidy                      30
Farmer                               1,310
AFC loan                             5,240
Total                6,580
Terns of AFC Loan: 10 years, including a two-year grace
period for principal; repayment, in eight equal annuities
of K Sh 912.



ANiEX 3
TABLE 2
Page 3
TYPE III:  6 acres - Pineapples, Maize, Potatoes
Investment Costs                 1st Year    2nd Year
4O.....( K Sh)
Initial deep plowing
(5.75 acres)                        575
Fertilizers                         705          250
Pesticides                          190          65
Spray.pump & implements             120           -
Planting material (seeds &
pineapple tops)                   550          100
Contingencies (15%)                 320          60
Sub-total           2,460          475
Fertilizer subsidy                   50            5
Total               2,510          480
----------------- -------------- ---------------------
Financing                                 K Sh
Government subsidy                          55
Farmer                                     585
AFC Loan                                 2,350
Total                      2,990
Terms of AFC Loan: 7 years, including a. two-year grace
period for principal; repayment in five equal annuities of
K Sh 589.



AlIND( 3
TABLE 2
Page 4
TYPE IV: 14 acres - Cotton, Groundnuts, Maize
Investment Costs                           K Sh
Clearing (8 acres)                          320
Initial deep plowing (13.75
acres)                                  1,375
Initial fertilizers                         925
Initial pesticides                          240
Duster, implements                          120
Contingencies (15%)                         4h5
Sub-total            3,425
Fertilizer subsidy                          105
Total                3,530
Financing
Government subsidy                          105
Farmer                                      685
AFC loan                                  2,740
Total                3,530
Terms of AFC Loan: 3 years without grace period; repayment
in three equal annuities of  K Sh 1,063.



ANNEX 3
TABLE 3
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Tabulated Cost Estimates l/and Schedule of Investments
of All Types of Farms
(in K Shs '000)
Years:     1         2         3          4       Total
Type I               540        98                            638
__       4540        98       --         638
- -~      --      1,080       195     1,275
Subtot.al        540       638      1,178       195     2,551
Type II              823     1,645      1,152       __      3,620
Type III           3,138       600        __        __      3,738
--       4,079      778       -4 ,857
--        --      2,321       444      2,765
Subtotal       3,138     4,679     3,099        444    11,360
Type IV            1,765     3,530      6           --     12,179
GRAND TOTAL    6,266    10,492    12,313        639    29,710
Amount of Subsidy
on Fertilizers
Type I               1.9       2.6       14.5       1.5      10.5
Type II              3.7       7.5        '.2       __       16.4
Type III            62.5      87.5       54.3       4.6     208.9
Type IV             52.5     105.0      204.8       --      362.3
GRAND TOTAL    120.6     202.6      268.8       6.1     598.1
i,/ Including subsidy on fertilizers.
For Types I and III investments are made over a period of
two years:
a) Type I per farm: 1st year, K Shs 7,200 (including
fertilizer subsidy, 25); 2nd year, K Shs 1,320
(including fertilizer subsidy, 10).
b) Type III: 1st year, K Shs 2,510 (including ferti-
lizer subsidy, 50); 2nd year, K Shs 480 (including
fertilizer subsidy, 5).



AGF.100LTURAL CREDIT 3 ROJECT
2                                          6                     8                    10        11
OUT PUT
Kilk                                     675       1,340     1,610      1,755      1,800      1,800      1,800      1,800      1,800      1,800     1,800
Cu1I                                     25          50        100        150       200        200        200        200        200        200       200
Fotatoeo                               1,200       1,400      1,600     1,600      1,600      1,600      1,600      1,600      1,600      1,600     1,600
8eans                                    500         500        500       500        500        500        500        500        500        500       500
Miscellaneous                            250         250        250        250       250        250        250        250        250        250       250
(1)  Total 0utout/                    2,650       3,540     4,060      4,255      4,350      4,350      4,350      4,350      4,350      4,350     4,350
EXLENDITURES
Veterinary & artificial
insemination                           200         200        200       200        200        200        200        200        200        200       200
Light plowing                            -            80         80        40         40         40         40         40         40         40        40
Deep plowing                             -           -          -          100       100        100        100        100        100        100       100
Fertilizer,                              -            95         95         95        95         95         95         95         95                   95
Pesticides                               -           125        125       125        125        125        125        125        125        125       125
Seed potatne.                            -           -          450        450       450        450        450        450        450        450       450
Contingency (15%)                         30          75        140        150       150        150        150        150        150        150       150
(2)  Cash Operating Ecpenditures        230         575      1.090     1.160      1.160      1.160      1.160      1.160      1.160      1.160     1.160
(3)  1ance (1) and (2)                2,420       2,965      2,970     3,095      3,190      3,190      3,190      3,190      3,190      3,190     3,190
(4)  Previous Income                   1.300       1300       1.300     1.300      1.300      1.300      1.300      1.300      1.300      1.300     1.300
(5)  I1ance (3) aisi (4)              1,120       1,665      1,670     1,795      1,890      1,890      1,890      1,890      1,890      1,890     1,890
(6) Farmer's Initial Investment
and Replacement.                1.435         260        150        150        150                              310
(7) Net Incremental Income
before Loan Service
(lance (5) and (6))            ( 315)      1,405      1,420      1,645     1,740      1,890      1,890      1,580      1,890       L,890    1,890
(8)  Loan Service                                    544      1.183      1.183     1.183      1.183      1.183      1.183      1.183      1.113
fl) Net, Incremental Income
after i,oan ServIce
(beiance (7) and (8))            ( 774)       861        237        462        7         707       707        397        7C7         70'?    1,890
(10)  Net income (4 plus 9)               526       2,161      1,537      1,762     1,857      2,007      2,007      1,697      2,007      2,007      ,,io0
QL;)   1tence                           800         000       800        300 _____  800        800        800        800        800        MOO       800
______________ _____________________    ______--                                                                          9  It
ac co1ie                       ( 274)     l,3b         737        962      1,057      1,207      1,207        S7      1,207      :,207     , 90



ANNEX 3
TABLE i
Page 2
AGRICULTURAL CRRMIT PROJECT
Tu II Farm Budget
kin Shillings)
1         2        3       4        5       6        7        8        9 _10            11
O U T P U T
Milk                                    675    1,005    1,110   1,200   1,200   1,200   1,200    1,200   1,200  1,200    1,200
Culls                                    25        LO       75      150     200      200     200       200      200    200       200
Maize                                   400      o80       560      64o     6ho      6bo      6ho      610      6ho    6ho       6Lo
Beans/pulses                            750       750      750      750     750      750     750       750      750    750       750
Potatoes                                600       700      800      800     800      800     800       800      800    Poo       800
Miscellaneous                           3°°       300      300      3°°      300     300      300      300      300      0       300
(1) Total Output  J                   2,750    3,275    3,595   3,8h0   3,890   3,890   3,890    3,890   3,890  3,890    3,890
E X P E N D I T U R E S
Artificial inseTination
& veterinary                          ibo      140        bo0   1ih0      Iho      lho     lho       lEo     Lho   iIs0        lo
Lighl Plowing                            80       200      200      160     160      160     160       160      160    160       160
Deep plowing                            -         -        -        100     100      100     100       100      100    100       100
Fertilizers                             -         130      130      130     130      130     130       130     130    130        130
Pesticides                              -          65       65       60       65      65       65       65       65     65        65
Maize seeds                              30        30        30      30       30      30       30       30       30     30        30
Potatoe seeds                           -         225      225      225      225     225      225      225      225    225       225
Contingency (15%)                        o0      1         125      125     125      125     125       125      125    125       125
(2) Cash Operating Expenditures         290      9                  975     975      975     975       975     975       5      _
(3) Balance (1) and (2)               2,460    2,360    2,680   29865   2,915   2,915   2,s91        2,915   2,915  2,915    2,915
(L) Previous Income                   1        1,300    1,300   1,300   1,300   1.300   1.300    1.300   1.300  1,300    1.300
(5) Balance (3) and (h)               1,160    1,060    1,380   1,565   1,615   1,615   1,615    1,615   1,615  1,615    1,615
(6) Farmer's Initial Investment
and Replacement                1,310       200       200     200      200                        310
(7) Net Incremental Income
before Loan Service
(Balance 5 and 6)             (  150 )   860    1,180   1,365   l1hI5   1,615   1,615    1,305   1,615  1,615    1,615
(8) Loan Service                       419       L19       912     912      912     912      912       912     912    912
(9) Net Incremental Income
after Loan Service
(Balance 7 and 8)              ( 569)      41       268    4U3        503     703      703      393      703    703    1,615
(10) Net Income (L plus 9)               731    1,741    1,568   1,753   1,803   2,003   2,003    1,693   2,003  2,003    2,915
(11) Subsistence                         300       800      800      800     800      800     8)O      800      800    800       800
(12) Cash Income                       (   9)    941        768      953   1,003   1,203   1,203        893   1,203  1,203    2,115
1 Including self-consumption.
To be financed by farmer.



AGRICULTURAL CREDIT ?ROJECT
TYPE III FABM BUDGBT
(in Shillings)
a   _ a               L          2          i          z8                             10
O U T P U T
Potatoee                                 1,200       1,400      1,600      1,600      1,600      1,600      1,600      1,600      1,600      1,600
Maize                                      700         720        700        640        640        640        640        640        640        640
Beans                                      875         750        625        50D        500        500        500        500        50D        500
Pineapples                                 -           -        1,010      1,680      1,680      1,680      1,680      1,680      1,680      1,680
Miscellaneous                              800         8C0        800        800        80         800        800        800        800        800
(1)  Total Output                        3,575       3,670      4,735      5,220      5,220      5,220      5,220      5,220      5,220      5,220
EXPENDITURES
Plowing                                    140         240        200        160        160        160        160        160        160        160
Potato seeds                               -           450        450        450        450        450        450        450        450        450
Maize seeds                                 50          45         40         30         30         30         30         30         30         30
Fertilizers                                            320        550        530        530        530        530        530        530        530
Pesticides-Pineapplea                                   65        190        260        260        260        260        260        260        260
-Potatoes                        _           125        125        125        125        125        125        125        125        125
Contingenciee (15%)                         25         185        230        230        230        230        230        230        230        230
(2)  Cash Operating Expenditures           215       1.430      1.785      1.785      1.785      1.7f       1.785      1.785      1,785      1,785
(3)  Belanoe (1) and (2)                 3,360       2,240      2,950      3,435      3,435      3,435      3,435      3,435      3,435      3,435
(4)  Previous Income                     1,300       1,300      1,300      1.300      1,300     1.300       1.300      1.300      1,300      1.300
(5)  Bhlancl  (3) and (4)                2,060         940      1,650      2,135      2,135      2,135      2,135      2,135      2,135      2,135
(6) FIrwer'a Initial Inveatmnt
and Replaceaont.                    i90          95                                                               120
(7)  Not Incremental Income
before Loan Service
(Belance 5 and 6)                 1,570         845      1,650      2,135      2,135      2,135      2,135      2,015      2,135      2,135
(8)  Loan Service                          157         188        589        5         589         s89        589
(9)  Net Incremental Income
after Loan Service
(Belance 7 and 8)                1,413         6f7       1,061      1,546      1,546      1,51.     1,544       2,015      2,135      2,135
(10)  Net Income (4 plus 9)               2,713       1,957      2,361      2,846      2,46       2,846      2,846      3,315      3,435      3,435
(11) Subsistence                            800         800        800        800        800        80         800        800        800        800
(12)  Cash Income                         1,913       1,177      1,561      2,i6       2046       2,046      2,046      2,515      2,635      2,635
J  Including self-consumption.                                                                                                                                 1L



ANNEX 3
TABLE 4
Page a
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TYPE IV FARM BUDGET
(in shillings)
1          2           3           4
OUTPUT
Cotton                                        1,000      1,160       1,320      1,500
Groundnuts                                    1,575      1,915       2,250      2,250
Maize                                           900      1,080       1,260       1,440
Beans                                         1,125      1,125       1,125       1,125
Miscellaneous                                   800        800         800         800
(1) Total Output /                                 5,400      6,080       6,755       7,115
EXPENDITURES
Light Plowing                                   180        540         540         540
Fertilizers                                     --         585         585         585
Pesticides                                      --         240         240         240
Maize seeds                                      70         70          70          70
Lgbor                                           730        730         730         730
Contingencies (15%)                             145        325         325         325
(2) Cash Operating Expenditures                    1,125      2,L90       2,490      2,490
(3) Balance (1) and (2)                            4,275      3,590       4,265      4,625
(4) Previous Income                                1,300      1,300       1,300       1,300
(5) Balance (3) and (4)                            2,975      2,290       2,965       3,325
(6) Farmer's initial investment and
repayments                                     685
(7) Net Incremental Income before Loan
Service (Balance 5 and 6)                    2,290      2,290      2,965       3,325
(8) Loan Service                                   1,0      63                         - 0 6 3-06
(9) Net Incremental Income after Loan
Service (Balance 7 and 8)                    1,227     1,227       1,902       3,325
(1O) I;et Income (h plus 9)                        2,527      2,527       3,202       1,625
(IX Subsistence                                      800        800         800         800
(v2) Cash Income                                   19727      1,727      2,402        3,825
1,' Including self-consumption.



ANIEX 3
TABLE 5
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PRDJECT
Yields and Price Assumptions in Estimates of Value of Farm Outputs
(prices in K Sh)
Norms and Yields       Farm Gate Prices
Dairying
First calving                     27 months
Calving interval                  16 months
Average number of calves/cow      5
CIlf mortality                    10%
Adult animal mortality            5%
Lactation period                  about 300 days
Milk                              300-400 gal/year or    1.50/gal
400-500/lactation
Bull calf                                                 25/heed
Heifer, 1 year                                            300/head
Heifer in-calf                                            900-1,000/head
Old cows for slaughter                                    200-300/head
Crops
Maize                             10-16 bags of           20/bag
200 lb/acre
Potptoes                          30-40 bags of           20/bag
180 lb/acre
Be.ns                             5 bags of 20() lb/      50/bag
acre
Groundnuts (unshelled)            700-1,000 lb/'acre      0,5/lb
Pineapples                        7.5 tons/acre           112/ton
(annual average)
Seed cotton                       500-750 lb/acre         0.50/lb of Grade A



ANNEX 3
TABLE 6
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Tractor Requirements and Costs
Years:    1        2        3      Total
......... in 1 OO acres) .........
Land Preparation Requirements
Deep plowing                         14.7     24.2     33.2       72.1
Light plowing                         6.7     25.4      57.8      89.9
..... ... (in '000 hours)..
Tractor Hour Requirements
Deep plowing (2.16/acre)             31.8     52.3      71.7     155.8
Light plowing (1.25/acre)             8.4     31.7      64.8     104.9
t-7 BU6                     21 0.
Tractor units needed
(600 hrs/unit)                    67      140      228
Additional tractor units
required per annum                67        73       88       228
Cost per Tractor Unit                   K Shs
1 4-wheeled 60 hp tractor               26,000
1 3-4 furrow disc plow                   3,600
1 set mounted tractor disc harrow        3,600
Miscellaneous                            2,500
35.,70(
Less 7i per cent cash discount           2 600
Total
Project Finance Required
One-fourth of the total tractor requirements is expected to be financed
through commercial banks and direct hire purchase transactions. The
balance required to be financed through the project (by AFC) is thus
169 tractors at a total cost of K Shs 5.6 million, spread over the
three years as follows:
Year     No.          Cost
(K Shs million)
1       50          1.655
2       55          1.820
3       64          2.118
79           5.539



ANNEX 3
TABLE 7
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cost EstimAtes of Ecpatriate Technical Staff and Equipment
K Shs
A. For AFC
1) Specialists (9 man-years @
K Shs 100,000)                               900,000
2) Accounting machines & office equipment       276,000
3) Vehicles (30)                                540iO,00
Total A        1,716,000
B. For Ministry of Agriculture
1) Agricultural, livestock & veterinary
officers (22 man-years @ K Shs 60,000)    1,320,000
2) Vehicles (8)                                 144,000
Total B        1,464,000
C.  Contingency                                      90,000
GRAND TOTAL        3,270,000



ANNEX 3
TABLE 8
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Analysis of Project Cost
Total Cost
Unit Prices        Million
Quantities              K Sh          K Sh   US$
I. On-Farm Development,
Crop & Animal Husbandry
X rovement
Heifers                      2,000 head                   1,000           2.0   0.3
Fencing                      Of 3,000 acres            200/acre           o.6   0.1
Water supplies               850 units                 1,200/unit         1.0   0.1
Deep plowing                 For 77,050 acres          100/acre           7.7   1.1
Land clearing                For 27,600 acres          40/acre            1.1   0.2
Fertilizers & pesticides                                                  8.9   1.2
Planting material (pota-
to seeds & pineapple
tops)                                                                    2.7   0.4
Milksheds, crusher &
attachments                 On about 850 farms       About 400/farm    0.3   (-)
Sprayers, dusters &
implements                  On about 8,100 farms    About 140/farm    1.1   0.1
Unallocated                                                               h.3   o.6
Subtotal I                                               29.7   4.1
II. Tractor Units                         169                33,100           5.6   0.8
III. Technical Staff &
Equipment
Technical staff                                                           2.3   0.3
Accounting machines &
office equipment                                                         0.3   0.1
Vehicles                               38                18,000           0.7   0.1
Subtotal III                                                3.3   0.5
IV. Additional Expenses AFC,
Government                                                                h.3   0.6
GRAND TOTAL                                               42.9   6.0
1/ A part of the cost of deep plowing is duplicated in the cost of tractors and
attachments. The share of this double financing attributed to the proposed IDA
credit is estimated at only about K Sh 00O,000 (US$57,000), an amount which it
is suggested should be overlooked when considering the project as a whole.



ANNEX 4
AGRICUITURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Coimmodity Marketing Boards and Market Prospects
Milk
1.        The Kenya Dairy Board (KDB) was established in 1958 to organize,
regulate and develop the production and marketing of dairy produce. It
has powers to licence and inspect producers., and to appoint agents for
the processing and sale of dairy produce. It is also responsible, toge-
ther with the Kenya Cooperative Creameries (KCC), for advising Government
on the milk price structure. KDB is at present concentrating on improv-
ing and developing dairying on smallholdings and increasing the number of
village collecting Centers. By June 1963 there were 85 such centers, and
for the next 3 years 100 a year will be opened under a UNICEF/FAO project.
KCC is the sole agent for KCB and handles an estimated 90 per cent of the
total volume of milk sold, whether for consumption as liquid milk or for
manufacturing. The remainder is either retailed direct by the farmer to
the consumer or (to a very small extent) processed on the farm.
2.        The modern dairy industry was formerly mainly in the hands of
European farmers, but the growth in the relative importance of African
farmers has been impressive. In 1964 the total number of dairy cattle of
improved breeds was about 370,000, of which 82,000 were in the hands of
small-scale African farmers, as against 20,000 only in 1960. The 4 main
factors affecting the price of milk are: the rapid growth in consumption
of liquid milk in recent years; the decline in output from the large
farms; the growth of production from smallholdings, especially on settle-
ment schemes; and the decline in the total number of dairy cattle. Present
total annual production (in terms of wholemilk) is estimated at about 50
million gallons, of which 42 million are from the large farms. The chang-
ing structure of the dairying industry, both in production and consumption,
zkakes it particularly difficult to forecast marketing trends. The KDB con-
siders there is not likely to be any increase in milk production before
1970, growth in output from smallholdings being offset by a decline from
large farms. By contrast, the Ministry of Agriculture considers there will
be an increase of about 23 million gallons between the years 1964 and 1970.
Whatever the future, the 800,000 gallons estimsted to be produced annually
from project farms at full production will not make any significant impact
on the Kenya total.
3.        Until recently, Kenya exported the bulk of surplus production
not required for home conaumtion to other East African and neighboring
countries, minly in the form of canned milk, together with small quantities
of fresh milk and some cheese. Increasing difficulties of trading within
the area have led to a reduction in such exports, and Kenya has been forced
to look further afield for trade outlets. Some new machinery has been in-
stalled, enabling a fairly full range of processed milk products to be manu-
factured. Present prices depend upon the purpose for which the milk is re-
quired and the location of the farm in relation to the market. In 1965 the



ANNEX 4
Page 2
average farm gate price of milk for liquid consumption was about K Shs 2.50
per gallon, for manufacturing about K Shs 1.10, and the overall weighted
average throughout the country about K Shs 1.70. The average price for
farms in the project areas is likely to be above the national average, since
most production will be for liquid consumption.
4.        The future average price of milk to the producers will depend upon
the proportions used for liquid consumption and for manufacturing, and the
ability to export the surplus over and above home requirements. If the pre-
sent trend of increased consumption continues, the average price to the pro-
ducer should tend to rise, but if the rise in total production overtakes the
rise in liquid consumption it will fall, and should export markets be hard
to find the KDB will doubtless lower all producer prices. For the purposes
of estimating for this project, an average figure of K Shs 1.50 per gallon
to project farms has been used, 20 cents below the 1965 average producer
price for milk for liquid consumption. Estimated yields are given in Annex 3,
Table 5.
Maize
5.        The Maize Marketing Board (MMB) was established in 1959 to organize
the purchase, storage and sale of maize. It engages in trading itself, em-
ploying agents to buy, collect and forward produce for storage. It estab-
lishes, in association with Government, an annual price structure, with appro-
priate differentials for each stage of distribution from producer to consumer.
1MB has control of storage capacity for about 130,000 tons of maize, and its
normal annual purchases are about 150,000 tons. Present annual average pro-
duction is 13 to 15 million bags (of 200 lbs. each), of which about 10 per
cent is marketed through HMB. 1965 production was badly affected by drought,
but MMB estimates production should rise to about 18 million bags in 1970.
Estimated annual production from project farms is under 400,000 bags, which
will not make any significant impact on the Kenya total.
6.        Yields from smallholdings and small farnms average at present about
3 to 4 bags per acre, compared with about 10 from large farms and up to 20
bags from experimental plots. As a result of work done in plant breeding,
there are prospects of a substantial increase in average yields over the next
few years. The assumption of from 10 to 16 bags per acre used for project
farms (Annex 3, Table 5) is considered to be capable of achievement with
improved seeds and farming practices. Present MMB ex-farm prices average
K Shs 29 to 32 per bag in most districts, and these are considered to provide
the necessary incentive for adopting improved practices. At the present
time Kenya is a net importer of maize, and there are no prospects of it be-
coming a large-scale exporter in the immediate future, although MMB hopes it
may become a marginal exporter at times of good harvests. Present world
prices are equivalent to an ex-farm price to Kenya producers of K Shs 19 to
20 per bag, well below present MMB prices. For the purposes of estimating
for this project, an ex-farm price of K Shs 20 per bag has been used.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Cotton
7.        The Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board (CLSMB) was established
in 1951. In association with Government it fixes each year a schedule of
farm prices and the various processing margins. CLSNB operates some ginner-
ies itself, while others are operated by private enterprise, but it is the
sole buyer of all lint cotton produced in the country, which it sells both
to the two existing textile mills and on world markets.  Cotton production,
which averaged 21,000 bales over the past three seasons, is expected to con-
tinue its generally upward trend.  CLSMB has forecast a total of 95,000 bales
in 1970. Maximum production from the project would be reached in the same
year and is estimated at 10,000 bales, so that output from project farms
would be a little over 10 per cent of the total. The crop is of medium to
long staple (average staple length 1-1/16 to 1-3/32 of an inch) and finds
ready markets overseas. The existing ginneries have considerable surplus
capacity, and are capable of processing a substantially larger crop than at
present.
8.        The present average yield is about .300 lbs. of seed cotton per acre.
The assumption used in the project (Annex 3, rable 5) is 500 to 750 lbs. per
acre, which it is anticipated will be achievedi by improved farming practices.
The present price of cotton to the farmer is 50 cents per pound for Grade "All
and 25 cents per pound for Grade "B" (which represents under 20 per cent of
total production). At present world prices the Grade "A" price represents a
subsidy of about 3 cents per pound on all cotton exported. It is generally
believed that with increased production and tjhe ginneries consequently work-
ing at much greater capacity and efficiency, a saving of at least 3 cents per
pound in ginning costs could be made.  Provided, therefore, that the world
cotton price does not decline from its present levels, it is considered that
there should be little difficulty in exporting the surplus cotton lint not
consumed within the country whilst maintaining the present price paid to
growers.  For the purpose of the project estimates, an ex-farm price of
50 cents per pound of Grade "A" cotton has been assumed.
Pineapples
9.        The Canning Crops Board (CCB) was set up in 1957 to control the
production, processing and sale of those agricultural crops suitable for can-
ning. The main commodity handled is pineapples, wherein its main responsi-
bility is the licencing of pineapple growers. Its present objective is
both to increase pineapple output and to relocate production below the
5,200 foot contour so as to produce the quality and quantity of fruit re-
juired by the processors. CCB does not itself engage in marketing, although
Lt is concerned with contracts between growers and processors, particularly
rith fruit prices. Sales of pineapples for direct consumption are not sub-
ect to its control. There is a proposal to expand the CCB to cover all
horticultural produce, including potatoes, with the intention that it should
promote and control the whole industry.
DO       A major increase in pineapple processing capacity will take place
at a result of an agreement between the Government and the California Pack-
it Corporation. When maximum production has been reached project farms



ANNEX 4
Page 4
would be producing 55,000 tons annually, which could be absorbed by the in-
creased canning capacity. It is considered that with good agricultural prac-
tice the estimated average annual yield of 71, tons per acre can be achieved.
A farm gate price of K Shs 112 per ton has been used in the estimates.
Kenya Agricultural Products Marketing Board (KAPNB)
11.       KAPMB was established in 1964 to organize on a national basis the
marketing of crops not covered by existing marketing boards. It therefore
handles a w-ide variety of products, including beans, pulses and groundnuts.
It operates more in the nature of a cooperative than a price fixing board
since, although there are schedules of prices with appropriate margins for
agents, handling charges, etc., it has to sell on the open market and attempts
on each commodity to break even over the years. KAPMB appears to be an effi-
cient organization but has not been operating long enough to judge conclusive-
ly. Its total sales during its first 14 months of operation were valued at
K Shs 32 million.
Potatoes
12.       Total production in 1965 was estimated at about 100,000 tons, all
of which was consumed within the country. Development plans do not include
any increase in potato production, but outputo from the project at full pro-
duction would be about 31,500 tons. It seems unlikely that domestic con-
sumption at present prices could absorb more than about 25,000 tons annually
in 6 year's time. The surplus could be absorbed both by a change in con-
sumption habits (which could occur if the price was reduced) and by exporting
the balance. The ex-farm price used in the project estimates is K Shs 20
per bag (of 180 lbs. each), which is about 20 per cent below prevailing
prices, and thus makes some allowance for disposal of any surplus.  Yields
have been estimated at 30 to 40 bags per acre.
Beans and Pulses
13.       Present annual production is estimated to be of the order of
100,000 tons, all of which is consumed local'y.  Domestic consumption at pre-
sent prices is expected to absorb a further 25,000 tons annually in 6 year's
time, when the annual output from project farms will be about 13,000 tons.
In the project estimates a yield of 5 bags (of 200 lbs.) per acre, and an
ex-farm price of K Shs 50 per bag have been assumed.
Groundnuts
14.       These are of relatively minor importance to the Kenya economy.
KAPMB sold about 1,500 tons out of an estimated total production of 6,000
tons in 1964/65.  Output from project farms at full production would be
8,000 tons annually, a large increase over present production. Nevertheless,
groundnuts are readily saleable on the world market, so that any surplus
should be disposable. If current proposals :for increasing crushing facili-
ties within Kenya are implemented, it may be possible to produce groundnut
oil locally. Yields of 700 to 1,000 lbs. (unshelled) per acre and an ex-farm
price of 50 cents per pound have been assumed in the project estimates.



ANNEX 5
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
Schedule of Staff Requirements
Present       Recruitment    Establishment
Establishment    for the Next  at Completion
As of 12/31/66   Three Years    of Project
1st 2nd 3rd
HEAD OFFICE
General Manager                   11
Assistant General Manager         1                                 1
Senior Accountant                 1                                 1
Specialist Advisors              --                      3          3
Credit Controller                 1            --  --  --           1
Legal Officer                     1                1                2
Internal Auditor                  1                                 1
Assistant Auditor                --            2                    2
Administrative Officers           2                --               2
Asst. Administrative Officer      1                                 1
Field Division Head               1                                 1
Crop Loans Section
Assistant Manager                 1                                 1
Crop Production Officer           1                                 1
Bookkeeper                        2                                 2
Large Scale Loans Section
Accountant                        1            --  --  --           1
Bookkeeper                        2                                 2
Small Scale Loans Section
Accountants                       6                                 6
Machine Operators                 4            -4
Clerical and Secretarial         24                                24
Trainees for Field Service       14            --  -
SUBTOTAL HEAl) OFFICE         55            5   1   _           57
FIELD STAFF
Branch Managers                  15            -_  __              15
Asst. Branch Maragers             3            1   --  -4
Loan Officers                    24            --  --              24
Trainee Loan Off'icers           15*          15* 15*  -45
Field Auditors                    3            4   4               11
Legal Assistantsi                 2            2   2                6
Field Secretarial Staff
Clerks                         5            2   2-               9
Secretaries                    3            4   4               11
Valuers                           8           -- --                 8
SUBTOTAL FIELD STAFF          78           28  27   --         133
TOTAL ALL STAFF              133           33  28   __         190
* Trainees become Loan Officers after about one year.



ANNEX 6
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND ANIMLL HUSBANDRY
Schedule of Agricultural and Veterinary Staff
to be Assigned to the Project
Years:   1st   2nd   3rd   4th   Total
Agricultural Department and Extension
AO (Headquarters)                   2    --     1    --      3
AO (Field)                          7    --    --    --      7
FPO                                 1     2     2     1      6
AAO                                 1     2     3     4     10
AAO (AH)                            1     1     2     2      6
TA                                 10    15    25    31     81
TA (AH)                             3     5     7     7     22
AAI                                26    40    64    76    206
Veterinary Department
VO                                  1     1     1    --       3
LO                                  1     1     2     2       6
TA                                  3     5     6     6     20
Total All Staff                         56   7'2  113   129    370
AO        Agricultural Officer
FPO      'Farm Planning Officer
AAO       Agricultural Assistant Officer
AAO (AH) Agricultural Assistant Officer for Animal Husbandry
TA        Technical Assistant
TA (AH)   Technical Assistant for Animal Husbandry
AAI       Assistant Agricultural Instructor
VO        Veterinary Officer
LO        Livestock Officer



K E N YA
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
OFFI CES
TLRKANA O                                                                                     / _..Io  A N D E R A
T ru R K A N A        ,F                            
t   ;                   \  .       ~~~~~~~~~~M  A  R S A B I T J              
t    *\ A           A                                  X H O~~~~~~m   R T HC  
)    \   ELGEYO  f  >       @       / /    \        ~~W  A  J I R          !  
) WERSTMARAKWET
:D     TRANj  */  POKOT
NZOIIA-.               ' K           5        U
I       ZR  dgboI                                           I
-   (5)~        ARING 
\   N A 1 ° <            w~~~~~AIe^0P   7, Me      IUI              A   N                           ,>
vi )tori S 0                          RE 
L 0 C A T I O N   0 F   0 P F I C E S(    hKopGdNoe   gMACHAKOS                                   G A R I
HERD OFFICE           ,Vairobi         7   < K JA O , u $&                                              W     A      U
BRANCH OFFICES        LOAN OFFICUS                NY  R,
vtder Heiad OffS       Foatbu         7/1      *
Machakos        7/3  >>                h        K I T U I
Xajiado/Ngonb g   7/5    f               \AJIAD
Mombasal        7/6        +                                       ,t 
E/d o r et  ( I)      X a p ,babe    ( 1-11)i./T  
Kisu~mu   (2)         Bungoma        (2-1)              f      q.       T A I A                              4f              
Xakamsega      (2-2)               4,,   
UNderi   (3)d Off       mbu          (3-1) (1/
Naircbi   (F)erugoHa                (3-2)                     .OMBASA
Meru      (     3~3)           *                  N3              .      Momooso            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Nyeri           (1)                          M              KWALE  , 776
Eriaoe t                                                                                                          PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
Nyerich (3)           Emb            (31 1)'  
Nakuru   (6)                                      o          50          100 MILES 33                             DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
APRIL 1966                                                                                                                   IBRD-1736



KENYA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LAND USE & DISTRIBUTION OF PROJECT FARMS
LA1VD USE
gZ,'Geenrally nign potential agriculture            [    igh potentiaZ agriulture
go (moorZand forest and derivoti,no)                LJL  (moist woodland/b-shZand)
L    lHigh yotential range            i          'Medium pten,tial range    L70ow potential range
(dry woodlandlbushtand)         !    z (dry thorn -bush land)              (semi -desert vegetation)
+ _                                           .                            , ., . * <7, International boundaries
NYA>J                                              - ,P ;7ik,&--  7   T  t/  Frovincial boundaries
.......... .....  -istrict boundaries
cb    os         V    - f  un o°:   I -    - -. -    <?                                FProject farms         ,        \/
_.                                       I                                                                                N__-          . S-.--       '      PIA.
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 32
~~~~~~ ~~~~26
1 EUNGOMA       13 LAIKIPIA       28 MERU          <|                 \          \         j    n !lS°
2 BUSIA          14 UASIN GISHU  29 EMEU                \                  a      \ -<           1 i  
3 KAKAMFGA      1S NANDI          30 KITUI                                       /               4 
4 CENTRAL       16 KERICHO        31 MACHAKOS                .                                    S   
NYANZA       17 NAKURU         32 MANDERA   J  lVi*|3p)tMln
S SOUTH         18 NAROK          3 3 WAJ I R              .         1l~     
NYANZA       19 KAJIADO        34 GARISSA                                C'         -      
6KlISI 1       20 NYANDARUA      35 TANA RlIVER                       37              :Ii  
7 TURKAllA      21 NYERI          36 LAMU
8 SAMBURU       22 KIRIN4YAGA     37 TAITA                                                0l I0    So.
9 WEST POKOT   23 FORT HALL    38 KILIFI                                                1      -4°                             oos
10 TRANS N201A  24 KIAMEU          39 KWALE
1 ELGEYO         23S THIKKA        40 MOBASA 
MARAKWIET    26 MARSABIT       41 NAIROBI                                0.  50l  I0   50 So ID .                             c ocS
12 BARINGO       27 ISIOLO              AREA 2  E 
MAY 1966                                                                                                                           IBRD-1750



