CREDIT NUMBER 105 KE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 11, 1967


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 105 KE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 11, 1967


﻿Drorloghpmut Tubit Agrurutrn
AGREEMENT, dated May 11, 1967, between the REPUB-
LIC OF KENYA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVLOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association).
WHEREAS the Agricultural Finance Corporation (herein-
after called the AFC), has been established by The Agri-
cultural Credit Act of the Borrower, with the purpose of
promoting agricultural development by making loans to
farmers, cooperative societies and other agencies and
persons;
WHEREAS the AFC will, with the assistance of the Bor-
rower, carry out a lending program under the Project
described in the Schedule to this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Borrower will make available to the AFC
a part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for herein
and for such purpose the Borrower and the AFC have
entered into a subsidiary loan agreement of even date here-
with providing for the terms and conditions upon which
the Borrower will relend part of the proceeds of said Credit
to the AFC;
WHEREAS the Borrower and the AFC have made appro-
priate arrangements as to (i) the policies, procedures and
conditions to be applied in granting loans to increase
agricultural production and (ii) the respective responsi-
bilities of the AFC and the Ministry of Agriculture and
Animal Husbandry of the Borrower in respect of assessing
applications for, and granting, such loans and supervising
the administration thereof;


﻿4
WHEREAS the Borrower and the AFC have requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the said lending
program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed to make a Credit to
the Borrower for such a program upon the terms and con-
ditions set forth herein and in a Project Agreement of even
date herewith between the Association and the AFC;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Credit Regtlations; Special Definitions
SECTIOY 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1 of
the Association dated June 1, 1961, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein subject, however,
to the following modifications thereof (said Development
Credit Regulations No. 1 as so modified being hereinafter
called the Regulations):
(a) The words "at the same rate" ill the second sentence
of Section 2.02 are deleted and the words "at the rate of
one-half of one per cent (I/2 of 1%/o) per annum" are
substituted therefor.
(b) Section 3.01 is deleted and the following new section
is substituted therefor:
"Section 3.01. Currencies in which Cost of Goods is
to be Paid and Proceeds of the Credit are to be
Withdrawn.                     I
(a) Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the cost of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be paid in- the
respective currencies of the countries from which such
goods are acquired.


﻿5
(b) The proceeds of the Credit shall be withdrawn
from the Credit Account:
(i) on account of expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower or for goods produced in
(including services supplied from) the terri-
tories of the Borrower, in such currency or
currencies as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably select;
(ii) in all other cases, in the currency in which the
cost of the goods financed out of such pro-
ceeds has been paid or is payable.
(c) The Borrower and the Association may from time
to time agree on any other currency in which with-
drawals shall be made."
(c) A new Section 3.04 is inserted after Section 3.03
as follows:
''Section 3.04. Purchase of Currency of Withdrawal
with other Curr -ncy. If withdrawal shall be made in
any currency waich the Association shall have pur-
chased with another currency for the purpose of such
withdrawal, the portion of the Credit so withdrawn
shall be deemed to have been withdrawn from the
Credit Account in such other currency for the purposes
of Sectian 3.03."
(d) Section 3.04 is renumbered as Section 3.05.
(e) Section 4.01 is deleted.
(f) Section 6.02 is amended by inserting the words "or
the Project Agreement" after the words "the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement."
(g) Section 8.04 is deleted and Section 8.05 is renuin-
bered as Section 8.04.
(h) Paragraph 9 of Section 9.01 is deleted and the
following paragraph is substituted therefor:


﻿6
"9. The term 'Project' means the project for which
the Credit is granted, as described in the
Schedule to the Development Cr,3dit Agreement
and as the description thereof shall be amended
from tim) to time by agreement between the
Association and the Borrower."
SECTION 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
following terms, wherever used in this Areement or in
the Regulations, shall have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the project agreement
of even date herewith between the AFC and the
Association and shall include any amendments there-
of made by agreement among the Borrower, the AFC
and the Association.
(b) "Agricultural Project" means a project for the
development of a smallholding, including tbe pur-
chase of trdctors and farm machinery, which has
been approved by the AFC for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Borrower
and the AFC referred to in the third recital of this
Agrqement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this
Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a
development credit in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to three million six hundred thousand, dollars
($3,600,000).
SECTION 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit
Account in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to


﻿such Credit Account the amount of the Credit. The amount
of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Cred-t Account
as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and
suspension set forth in, this Development Credit Agree-
ment.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall be entitled, subject to the pro-
visions of the Development Credit Agreement, to withdraw
from the Credit Account:
(a) such amounts as shall have been expended for the
reasonable costs of the services, equipment and vehicles
referred to in Part B of the Schedule to this Agreement;
and
(b) the equivalent of a percentage or percentages to be
established from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association of such amounts as shall
have been disbursed under loans by the AFC to finance
the reasonable cost of goods required for carrying out
Agricultral Projects;
provided, however, that no withdrawals shall be made on
account of (i) expenditures made prior to A])ril 1, 1967, or
(ii) expenditures in the territories of any country which
is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or
for goods produced in (including services supplied from)
such territories.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 0. 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semin-annual installments payable


﻿8
on each January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 1977
and ending January 1, 2017, each installment to and includ-
ing the installment payable on Janiary 1, 1987 to be
one-half of one per cent (  of 1%j of such principal
amount, and each inr tallment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1112%) of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall ca,use the proceeds of
the Credit to be applied exclusively to financing the cost of
goods required to carry out the Agricultural Projects in
respect of which the AFO has granted credits under the
part of the Project described in Part A of the Schedule to
this Agreement and to financing the services, equipment
and vehicles referred to in Part B of the said Schedule.
The specific goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and the methods and procedures for procure-
ment of such goods shall be determined by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association, subject to
modification by further agreement between them.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenanti
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound agricultural, engineering and
financial standards and practices.
(b) The Borrower shall take all action which shall be
necessary on its part to enable the AFC to perform all its
obligations under the Project Agreement and shall not take
any action that would interfere with the performance of
such obligations by AFC.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the AFC io have experi-
enced and competent management satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿9
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall (i) relend the part
of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn purs-dant to sub-
paragraph (b) of Section 2.03 of this Agreement, or the
equivalent of such proceeds, to the AFC on terms and
conditions as set out in the Subs.diary loan Agreement
and (ii) make available to the AFC by way of grant, that
part of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn for expelidi-
tures by the AFC pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of Section
2.03 of this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Association, and,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall not amend, assign, abrogate or waive any
provision of said Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall at all times make or cause to be
made available, promptly as needed, all funds and other
resources which shall be required for the carrying out of
the Project or of the Agricultural Projects, including
short-term production credits to farmers carrying out
Agricultural Projects.
(d) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing
paragraph (c), whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the AFC will be inade-
quate to meet the estimated expenditures required by it
for carrying out the Pi oject, the Borrower shall make
arrangements, satisfactoi.y to the Association, promptly to
provide the AFC or cause the AFC to be provided with
such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
SECTION 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not abrogate, waive or materially
amend any provision of the arrangements made with the
AFC as to (i) the policies, procedures and conditions to be
applied in the making of loans, and (ii) the respective
responsibilities of the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal


﻿10
Husbandry of the Borrower and the APO in respect of the
carrying out of the Project.
SECTION* 4.04. (a) The Borrower and che Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall reason-
ably request with regard to the general status of the Credit.
On the part of the Borrower, such information shall include
information with respect to finaneial and economic con-
ditions in the territories of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and tYc mairtenance of i e service thereof. The Borrower
shall prompcuy inform the Association of any condition
which intereferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the
maintenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.05. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.06. The Development Credit Agreement and
the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes that
shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on or in connection with the
execution, delivery or registration thereof.


﻿11
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Associatioh
SECTIo,N 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph (a)
or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations shall
occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days, or
(ii) if any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.02
of the Regulations or in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of
Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall con-
tinue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower, then
at any subsequent time during the continuance thereof the
Association, at its option, may declare the principal of the
Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately,
and upon any such declaration such principal shall become
due and payable immediately, anything in this Development
Credit Agreement to the contrary ilotwithstanding.
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of Section 5.02 (j) of
the Regulations, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) the AFC shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) before the Project Agreement shall have terminated
in accordance with its terms, the Borrower shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the
AFC or for the suspension of its operations, without the
consent of the Association;
(c) the Borrower shall have amended The Agricultural
Credit Act in such a way as to substantially alter the organ-
ization, powers or responsibilities of the AFC, without the
consent of the Association; and
(d) the Borrower shall have failed to fulfill an obligation
to make payment of principal or interest or any other
payment required under this Development Credit Agree-
ment or under any other development credit agreement
between the Borrower and the Association or under any


﻿12
loan agreement or guarantee agre ment between the
Borrower and the Bank or under any bond delivered pur-
suant to any such agreement even though payment has
been made by other persons.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 8.01 (b)
of the Regulations: the execution and delivery of the
Project Agreement on behalf of the AFC have been duly
authorized or ratified by all n  :sgary corporate and
governmental action.
SECTION 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters within the meaning of Section 8.02 (b) of the
Regulations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
AFC and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the
AFC in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the parties thereto and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of the parties thereto in accordance
with its terms.
SECTION 6.03. If this Development Credit Agreement
shall not have come into force and effect by July 15, 1967,
this Development Credit Agreement and all obligations of
the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Associa-
tion, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, estab-
lishes a later date for purposes of this Section. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower and the AFC of
such later date.


﻿13
SECTION 6.04. Upon termination of the Project Agree-
ment in accordance with its terms, the obligations of the
Borrower with respect to the Project and the AFC shall
forthwith terminate.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1971,
or such other date as may from time to time be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi
Kenya
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Finance
Nairobi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address of cablegrams and radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
SECTION 7.03. The Minister of the Borrower for the
time being responsible for finance is designated for the
purposes of Section 7.03 of the Regulations.


﻿14
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By s/ J. K. ILAKO
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssocIATioN
By s/ A. BROCHES
General Counsel


﻿15
SCHEDULE
Description of Project
The Project is part of the AFC 's program of promoting
agricutural development by providing credit to selected
smallholders whose individual interests have been duly
established and recorded.
The Project includes the providing of:
Part A.   (i) credit to farmers to finance on-farm develop-
ment and improved crop and animal hus-
bandry; and
(ii) credit to contractors to finance the purchase
I of tractors and farm machinery;
Part B. additional technical and specialist staff of the
AFC and the supporting agricultural and veteri-
nary services of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Animal Husbandry of the Borrower and equip-
and vehicles for the purposes of carrying out
the above-mentioned program.
Under the Project credit will be extended to farmers in
respect of about 8000 farms involving a total cultivable
acreage of about 80,000 over a four-year period ending on
March 31, 1971.


