CREDIT NUMBER 105 KE
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
DATED MAY 11, 1967


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 105 KE
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
DATED MAY 11, 1967


﻿AGREEMENT, dted May 11, 1967, between INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and the AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
(hereinafter called the AFC).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even
date herewith between the Republic of Kenya (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, which agree-
ment, the schedule therein referred to and Development
Credit Regulations No. 1 of the Association made appli-
cable thereto are hereinafter called the Development Credit
Agreement, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower a development credit in various currencies
equivalent to three million six hundred thousand dollars
($3,600,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
the AFC agree to undertake certain obligations to the
Association as hereinafter in this Project Agreement set
forth; and
WHEREAS the AFC, in, consideration of the Association's
entering into the Develcpment Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations herein-
after set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Project Agreement,
unless the context shall otherwise require, the several


﻿4
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement shall
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of the AFC
SECTION 2.01. (a) The AFC shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and shall at all times con-
duct its operations and affairs and maintain its financial
position in accordance with sound agricultural, engineering
and financial practices and under the supervision of experi-
enced and competent management satisiactory to the
Association.
(b) The AFC shall have its financial statements (balance
sheet and related statement of earnings and expenses)
certified annually by an independent accountant or account-
ing firm acceptable to the Association and shall promptly
after their preparation and, unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, not later than four months after the close
of the AFC's fiscal year, transmit to the Association certi-
fied copies of such statements and a signed copy of such
accountant's or such firm's report.
SECTIoN 2.02. The AFC shall lend the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn by the Borrower pursuant to sub-para-
graph (b) of Section 2.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement, or the equivalent thereof, in accordance with
the Project as loans, or portions of loans, pursuant to
terms, conditions and procedures satisfactory to the
Association and, in granting loans, the AFC shall obtain
rights adequate to protect its interests and the interests of
the Borrower.
SECTION 2.03. The AFC shall cause all goods purchased
in whole or in part with the proceeds of the Credit to be
used exclusively in the territories of the Borrower in
carrying out the Agricultural Projects or the Project, as
the case may be.


﻿5
SECTION 2.04. The AFC shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to identify the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the use thereof,
to record the progress of the Project, and to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices all financial transactions between the Borrower
and the AFC with respect to the Project and the operations
and financial condition of the AFC; and shall enable the
Association's representatives to inspect the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records
and documents.
SECTION 2.05. The AFC shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit, the goods financed out of such proceeds, the Project,
the Agricultural Projectb, borrowers to whom the AFC has
loaned the proceeds of the Credit and the administration,
operations and financial condition of the AFC.
SECTION 2.06. (a) The AFC and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall furnish
to the other all such information as it shall reasonably
request.
(b) The AFC and the Association shall from time to time
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit. The AFC
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the pl1 'l)oses of the Credit, or the
performance by the AFC of its obligations under this
Project Agreement or the obligations to be performed by
it pursuant to the provisions of the Development Credit
Agreement.
SECTION 2.07. During the fiscal year ending December
31, 1967, and during each succeeding fiscal year of the


﻿6
AFC up to the Closing Date of the Development Credit
Agreement, the AFC shall not, without the agreement of
the Association, incur debts maturing more than one year
from the date of their incurrence.
SECTION 2.08. The AFC shall duly perform all its obli-
gations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as
the Association and the AFC shall otherwise agree, the
AFC shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving any provision of the said Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
SECTION 2.09. (a) The AFC shall duly implement the
arrangements made with the Borrower referred to in Sec-
tion 4.03 of the Development Credit Agreement, and shall
cooperate fully with the Ministry of Agriculture and
Animal Husbandry of the Borrower to assure that the
purposes of the Credit will be accomplished.
(b) Except as the Association and the AFC shall other-
wise agree, the AFC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of abrogating or amending the
said arrangements.
SECTION 2.10. In addition to the fumds and other
resources which the Borrower will make available to the
AFC for the purposes of the Project, the AFC shall pro-
vide, promptly as needed, all funds, facilities, services and
other resources which may be required for the completion
of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 3.01. This Project Agreement shall come into
force and effect on the Effective Date. If the Development
Credit Agreement terminates pursuant to Section 6.03
thereof, this Project Agreement and all obligations of the
parties hereunder shall terminate.


﻿7
SECTION 3.02. If and when the entire principal amount
of that part of the proceeds of the Credit relent by the
Borrower to the AFC pursuant to Section 4.02 (a) of the
Development Credit Agreement shall have been repaid by
the AFC to the Borrower in accordance with the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, or on December 31, 1984, whichevcr is
later, this Project Agreement and all obligations of the
AFC hereunder shall forthwith terminate.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Pi!oject Agreement
and any agreement between the parties contemplated by
this Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at its address hereinafter
specified, or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the AFC:
P.O. Box 30367
Nairobi, Kenya
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Kenagban
Nairobi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Indevas                                       %
Washington, D. C.


﻿8
SECTION 4.02. The AFC shall furni h to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority of th,e pbrson or persons
who will, on behalf of the AFC, take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or exe-
cuted by the AFC pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Project Agreement and the authenticated specimen signa-
ture of each such person.
SECTION 4.03. This Project Agreement may be executed
in several counterparts, each of which shall be an original
and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this
Project Agreement to be signed in their respective names
by their representatives thereunto duly authorized and
delivered in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By s/ A. BROCHES
General Counsel
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
By s/ J. K. ILAKO
Authorized Representative


